
10-K
FORM 10K FYE 12/31/98




                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

           [ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                                       or

          [ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file number 1-7784

                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

              Louisiana                                72-0651161
   (State or other jurisdiction of                    (IRS Employer
   incorporation or organization)                  Identification No.)

100 Century Park Drive, Monroe, Louisiana                 71203
(Address of principal executive offices)               (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code - (318) 388-9000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

        Title of each class            Name of each exchange on which registered
        -------------------            -----------------------------------------
  Common Stock, par value $1.00                New York Stock Exchange
                                               Berlin Stock Exchange
  Preference Share Purchase Rights             New York Stock Exchange
                                               Berlin Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [  ]

As of February  28,  1999,  the  aggregate  market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates  (affiliates  being for these purposes only directors,  executive
officers  and  holders of more than five  percent of the  Company's  outstanding
voting  securities)  was $3.7  billion.  As of  February  28,  1999,  there were
92,357,172 shares of common stock outstanding.

                    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Portions of the  Registrant's  Proxy  Statement  prepared in connection with the
1999 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated in Part III of this Report.


                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

    General.  Century Telephone  Enterprises,  Inc. ("Century"),  which operates
under the  tradename of  CenturyTel,  is a regional  diversified  communications
company  engaged  primarily in providing local exchange  telephone  services and
cellular  telephone  services.  For the year  ended  December  31,  1998,  local
exchange  telephone  operations  and cellular  operations  provided 69% and 26%,
respectively,  of the consolidated revenues of Century and its subsidiaries (the
"Company"). All of the Company's telephone and cellular operations are conducted
within the continental United States and Alaska.

    At December 31, 1998, the Company's  local exchange  telephone  subsidiaries
operated over 1.3 million telephone access lines,  primarily in rural,  suburban
and small urban areas in 21 states,  with the largest  customer bases located in
Wisconsin,  Washington,  Alaska, Michigan, Louisiana, Colorado, Ohio, Oregon and
Montana.  According to published sources, the Company is the ninth largest local
exchange  telephone  company in the United  States based on the number of access
lines served. For more information, see "Telephone Operations."

    At December 31, 1998,  the Company's  majority-owned  and operated  cellular
systems served  approximately  624,000 customers in 21 Metropolitan  Statistical
Areas  ("MSAs") in Michigan,  Louisiana,  Arkansas,  Mississippi,  Wisconsin and
Texas,  and 23 Rural  Service  Areas  ("RSAs"),  most of which are in  Michigan,
Mississippi, Wisconsin, Louisiana and Arkansas. The Company's ownership interest
in these  operated  markets  represented  approximately  8.1  million  pops (the
estimated  population of licensed cellular  telephone markets  multiplied by the
Company's  proportionate equity interest in the licensed operators thereof).  At
December 31, 1998, the Company also owned minority  equity  interests in 10 MSAs
and 17 RSAs, representing  approximately 1.9 million pops. Of the Company's 10.1
million aggregate pops,  approximately 67% are attributable to the Company's MSA
interests,  with  the  balance  attributable  to its RSA  interests.  All of the
cellular systems  operated by the Company are operated under wireline  licenses,
except  for five  MSAs and four  RSAs  which  are  operated  under  non-wireline
licenses.  According to data derived from published sources,  the Company is the
tenth  largest  cellular  telephone  company in the United  States  based on the
Company's 10.1 million pops. For more information , see "Cellular Operations."

    The Company also provides long distance,  call center,  security monitoring,
cable television and interactive services in certain local and regional markets,
as well as certain  printing and related  services.  For more  information,  see
"Other Operations."

    Recent acquisitions and dispositions.  On December  1, 1998,  the Company
acquired the assets of certain of Ameritech's  telephone  operations and related
telephone  directories  in 19 telephone  exchanges  covering 21  communities  in
northern  and  central  Wisconsin  for  approximately  $221  million  cash.  The
operations  acquired by the Company include the telephone property and equipment
that serves nearly 69,000  customers,  or approximately  86,000 access lines, as
well as the nine related telephone directories.

    On December 1, 1997, the Company acquired  Pacific Telecom,  Inc. ("PTI") in
exchange  for  $1.503  billion  cash.  As a result of the PTI  acquisition,  the
Company  acquired (i) over  660,000  telephone  access lines in four  midwestern
states,  seven western states and Alaska, (ii) over 88,000 cellular customers in
ten  markets  located in two  midwestern  states  and  Alaska and (iii)  various
wireless,  cable television and other  communications  assets.  In May 1998, the
Company sold PTI's undersea cable  operations  for  approximately  $61.8 million
cash.

    During late 1997 and early 1998,  the Company  acquired two  security  alarm
businesses  that  provide  services to  approximately  6,000  customers in north
central Louisiana, southern Arkansas and northwestern Mississippi.

    In  December  1997 the  Company  acquired  an  additional  76%  interest  in
Wisconsin RSA 8, which is adjacent to the Company's existing cellular operations
in southwestern Wisconsin.

    During 1997 the Company exchanged its 89% interest in its competitive access
subsidiary for approximately 4.3 million shares of publicly traded common stock.
Approximately  3.8 million  shares of such stock were sold in November  1997 for
$203 million and the remaining  shares were  converted  into  approximately  1.0
million shares of  MCIWorldCom,  Inc.  ("WorldCom") in early 1998. In the second
quarter of 1998,  the Company sold 750,000  shares of WorldCom  common stock for
$35.6  million.  In January  1999,  the  Company  sold its  remaining  shares of
WorldCom stock for $20.1 million.

    In January  1997 the  Company  acquired  Pecoco,  Inc.,  a provider of local
exchange  telephone  service in four counties in  Wisconsin.  As a result of the
acquisition,  the Company  acquired (i) more than 7,600 telephone  access lines,
(ii) a minority  interest  in two  cellular  partnerships  serving  Madison  and
Milwaukee,  Wisconsin,  representing approximately 35,000 pops and (iii) certain
cable television assets.

   In August 1998 the Company  entered into a  definitive  agreement to sell the
stock  of the  entities  conducting  the  Company's  Alaska  operations  to ALEC
Acquisition  Corporation for $415 million cash, subject to various  adjustments.
Proceeds  from  this  transaction  will be  used  to  reduce  debt.  The  Alaska
transaction is  anticipated  to close in the second quarter of 1999,  subject to
regulatory  approvals and various  closing  conditions.  The transaction is also
subject to the buyer's  receipt of financing  pursuant to its existing  debt and
equity financing commitments.

   In January 1999 the Company signed  definitive  asset purchase  agreements to
sell all of the  operations  of the  Brownsville  and McAllen,  Texas,  cellular
markets to Western Wireless Corporation for $95 million cash, subject to various
adjustments.  The Company,  which is the majority owner in these  markets,  will
receive a proportionate  share of the sale proceeds of approximately $39 million
after-tax.  The  transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 1999,
subject to  regulatory  approvals,  the  satisfactory  completion of buyer's due
diligence and various other closing conditions.

    Over the past several years, the Company has expanded its operations through
an ongoing program of  acquisitions.  Substantial  acquisitions  during the last
five years also include the 1994 acquisition of Celutel,  Inc. (over 1.1 million
pops). The Company continually evaluates the possibility of acquiring additional
telecommunications  assets in exchange for cash,  securities or both, and at any
given time may be engaged in discussions or  negotiations  regarding  additional
acquisitions.  Over the past few years,  the  number and size of  communications
properties  on the  market  has  increased  substantially.  Recently,  two large
communications  companies  announced  their  intent  to sell  up to 1.6  million
primarily rural access lines. Although the Company's primary focus will continue
to be on acquiring  telephone and wireless  interests  that are proximate to its
properties or that serve a customer base large enough for the Company to operate
efficiently, other communications interests may also be acquired.

    Other.  As of  December  31,  1998,  the  Company  had  approximately  5,800
employees,   approximately  1,000  of  whom  were  members  of  seven  different
bargaining  units  represented  by the  International  Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers,  Communications  Workers of  America,  or the NTS  Employee  Committee.
Relations with employees continue to be generally good.

    In mid-1998,  the Company adopted the tradename  "CenturyTel" as part of its
branding  strategy to operate under a single name. The Company currently markets
its telephone,  cellular,  long distance,  Internet access and most of its other
services under the CenturyTel tradename. Century proposes to formally change its
corporate  name to  CenturyTel,  Inc.  at its 1999 annual  shareholders  meeting
scheduled for May 6, 1999.

    Century was  incorporated  under Louisiana law in 1968 to serve as a holding
company for several  telephone  companies  acquired  over the  previous 15 to 20
years.  Century's  principal  executive  offices are located at 100 Century Park
Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203 and its telephone number is (318) 388-9000.

                              TELEPHONE OPERATIONS

    According  to  published  sources,  the Company is the ninth  largest  local
exchange  telephone  company  in the United  States,  based on the more than 1.3
million access lines it served at December 31, 1998. All of the Company's access
lines are digitally switched. Through its operating telephone subsidiaries, the
Company  provides  services to  predominately  rural,  suburban  and small urban
markets  in 21 states.  The table  below sets  forth  certain  information  with
respect to the Company's access lines as of December 31, 1998 and 1997.



    As indicated in the following table, the Company has experienced  growth in
its telephone  operations over the past several years, a substantial portion of
which was attributable to the acquisition of PTI and other telephone properties
and to the expansion of services:



    Future  growth in  telephone  operations  is expected to be derived from (i)
acquiring  additional  telephone  properties,  (ii)  providing  service  to  new
customers, (iii) increasing network usage and (iv) providing additional services
made  possible  by  advances  in  technology  and  changes  in  regulation.  For
information on developing competitive trends, see "-Regulation and Competition."

Services

    The Company's  local  exchange  telephone  subsidiaries  derive revenue from
providing (i) local telephone  services,  (ii) network access services and (iii)
other related services. The following table reflects the percentage of telephone
operating revenues derived from these respective services:

                                  1998        1997        1996  
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Local service                     30.4%       27.8        26.9
Network access                    57.7        60.2        61.2
Other                             11.9        12.0        11.9  
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                 100.0%      100.0       100.0  
================================================================

    Local  service  revenues  are derived from the  provision of local  exchange
telephone  services in the Company's service areas.  Internal access line growth
during 1998,  1997 and 1996 was 4.7%, 4.4% and 4.3%,  respectively.  The Company
believes  that access line growth in the future should  benefit from  population
growth  in its  service  areas,  acquisitions  and  increases  in the  number of
households  maintaining  more than one access line.  The Company  markets  local
Internet access in 396 communities in 12 states,  which the Company believes has
led to an increase in orders for second lines.

    Network access revenues primarily relate to services provided by the Company
to long distance  carriers and other customers in connection with the use of the
Company's  facilities to originate and terminate  interstate and intrastate long
distance  telephone  calls.  Access charges to long distance  carriers and other
customers   are  based  on  tariffed   access   rates  filed  with  the  Federal
Communications   Commission  ("FCC")  for  interstate   services  and  with  the
respective  state  regulatory  agency for  intrastate  services.  Certain of the
Company's  interstate  network access revenues are based on access charges filed
directly  with the FCC; the remainder of such revenues are derived under revenue
sharing  arrangements  with other LECs  administered  by the  National  Exchange
Carrier Association ("NECA").

    Certain of the  Company's  intrastate  network  access  revenues are derived
through  access  charges  billed by the  Company  to  intrastate  long  distance
carriers and other LEC  customers.  Such  intrastate  network access charges are
based on  access  tariffs,  which are  subject  to state  regulatory  commission
approval.  Additionally,  certain of the  Company's  intrastate  network  access
revenues,  along with  intrastate  long distance  revenues,  are derived through
revenue sharing arrangements with other LECs.

    The  installation  of digital  switches  and  related  software  has been an
important  component  of the  Company's  growth  strategy  because it allows the
Company to offer enhanced services (such as call forwarding, conference calling,
caller  identification,  selective call ringing and call waiting) and to thereby
increase  utilization of existing access lines. In 1998 the Company continued to
expand its list of premium  services  (such as voice mail and  Internet  access)
offered in certain service areas and aggressively marketed these services.

    The Company is  installing  fiber optic cable in certain of its high traffic
routes and provides  alternative  routing of telephone  service over fiber optic
cable networks in several  strategic  operating areas. At December 31, 1998, the
Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  had over 8,350 miles of fiber optic cable in
use.

    Other revenues include revenues related to (i) leasing, selling, installing,
maintaining  and repairing  customer  premise  telecommunications  equipment and
wiring,  (ii)  providing  billing  and  collection  services  for long  distance
companies,  (iii) participating in the publication of local directories and (iv)
providing  Internet  access.  At the end of 1998, the Company  offered  Internet
access in telephone markets  representing 60% of its access lines. Certain large
communications  companies for which the Company  currently  provides billing and
collection  services  continue to indicate  their desire to reduce their billing
and collection expenses,  which may result in future reductions of the Company's
billing and collection revenues.

    For further information on the regulation of the Company's revenues,see
"-Regulation and Competition."

Federal Financing Programs

    Certain of the Company's telephone  subsidiaries receive long-term financing
from the Rural  Utilities  Service ("RUS") and the Rural Telephone Bank ("RTB").
The RUS has made  long-term  loans to  telephone  companies  since  1949 for the
purpose of improving telephone service in rural areas. The RUS continues to make
new  loans  at  interest  rates  that  range  from 5% to 7%  based  on  borrower
qualifications and the cost of funds to the United States  government.  The RTB,
established  in 1971,  makes  long-term  loans at  interest  rates  based on its
average cost of funds as determined by statutory formula (such rates ranged from
5.71% to 5.96% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998),  and in some cases
makes loans  concurrently with RUS loans. Most of the Company's  telephone plant
is  pledged  or  mortgaged  to secure  obligations  of the  Company's  telephone
subsidiaries to the RUS and RTB. The Company's telephone subsidiaries which have
borrowed from government agencies generally may not loan or advance any funds to
Century, but may pay dividends if certain financial covenants are met.

    For  additional  information  regarding  the  Company's  financing,  see the
Company's consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 herein.

Regulation and Competition

    Traditionally, LECs have operated as regulated monopolies. Consequently, the
majority of the Company's telephone operations have traditionally been regulated
extensively  by various  state  regulatory  agencies  (generally  called  public
service commissions or public utility  commissions) and by the FCC. As discussed
in greater  detail  below,  passage of the  Telecommunications  Act of 1996 (the
"1996 Act"),  coupled with state  legislative  and  regulatory  initiatives  and
technological  changes,  has  fundamentally  altered the  telephone  industry by
reducing the  regulation of LECs and  permitting  competition in each segment of
the telephone  industry.  Although Century anticipates that these trends towards
reduced regulation and increased  competition will continue,  it is difficult to
determine  the form or  degree  of  future  regulation  and  competition  in the
Company's service areas.

    State  regulation.  The local service rates and intrastate access charges of
substantially all of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are regulated by state
regulatory  commissions.  Most of such commissions have traditionally  regulated
pricing through "rate of return" regulation that focuses on authorized levels of
earnings by LECs. Most of these  commissions  also (i) regulate the purchase and
sale  of  LECs,  (ii)  prescribe   depreciation  rates  and  certain  accounting
procedures and (iii) regulate various other matters,  including  certain service
standards and operating procedures.

    In recent  years,  state  legislatures  and  regulatory  commissions  having
jurisdiction over the Company's telephone  subsidiaries in most of the states in
which the Company has  substantial  operations  have either  begun to reduce the
regulation  of  LECs or  have  announced  their  intention  to do so,  and it is
expected that this trend will continue.  Wisconsin,  Louisiana and several other
of these states have passed  legislation which permit LECs to opt out of rate of
return  regulation in exchange for agreeing to  alternative  forms of regulation
which  typically  permit the LEC greater  freedom to establish  service rates in
exchange  for agreeing  not to charge  rates in excess of  specified  caps.  The
Company  continues to explore its options in these states.  The Company believes
that  reduced  regulatory  oversight  of  certain  of  the  Company's  telephone
operations may allow the Company to offer new and  competitive  services  faster
than under the traditional  regulatory  process.  Coincident with these efforts,
legislative,  regulatory and technological  changes have introduced  competition
into the local exchange industry. See "-Developments Affecting Competition."

    Substantially  all  of  the  state  regulatory  commissions  have  statutory
authority,  the specific limits of which vary, to initiate and conduct  earnings
reviews  of the  LECs  that  they  regulate.  As  part of the  movement  towards
deregulation,  several  states are moving away from  traditional  rate of return
regulation  towards price cap  regulation  and incentive  regulation  (which are
similar to the FCC regulations  discussed below),  and are actively  encouraging
larger LECs to adopt these newer forms of price regulation.  The continuation of
this trend may lead to fewer earnings reviews in the future. Currently, however,
most of the  Company's  LECs  continue  to be  regulated  under  rate of  return
regulation.

    During 1995 the Louisiana Public Service  Commission  ("LPSC") adopted a new
regulatory   plan  for  independent   telephone   companies  in  Louisiana  that
incrementally  reduced the Company's  access revenues  between 1996 and 1998. In
1997 the LPSC adopted a Consumer Price  Protection Plan (the "Louisiana  Plan"),
effective  July 1997,  which  impacts all of the  Company's  LECs  operating  in
Louisiana.  The new  form of  regulation  will  focus on price  and  quality  of
service.  Under the Louisiana  Plan, the Company's  Louisiana  LECs' local rates
were  frozen  for a period of three  years and access  rates  were  frozen for a
period of two years. Although the Louisiana Plan has no specified term, the LPSC
is required to review it by  mid-2000.  The  Company's  Louisiana  LECs have the
option  to  propose  a new  plan at any  time if the  LPSC  determines  that (i)
effective competition exists or (ii) unforeseen events threaten the subsidiary's
ability to provide adequate service or impair its financial health.

    The Company's  telephone  operations in Wisconsin  that were acquired in the
December  1997  acquisition  of PTI have  been  regulated  under an  alternative
regulation plan (the "Wisconsin Plan") since June 1996. The Wisconsin Plan has a
five-year  term and includes a provision  that allows the  Company's  subsidiary
covered by such plan to freely  adjust  rates  within  specified  parameters  if
certain quality-of-service and  infrastructure-development  commitments are met.
The Wisconsin Plan also includes initiatives designed to promote competition. In
early 1999,  another of the  Company's  Wisconsin  LECs filed a request with the
Wisconsin  Public  Service  Commission  to be  regulated  under  an  alternative
regulation plan.

    The Michigan  Public  Service  Commission  regulates the Company's  Michigan
telephone  subsidiaries  pursuant to the parameters  established by the Michigan
Telecommunications Act of 1995 ("MTA"). The MTA restructured regulation to focus
on price and  quality  of  service  as  opposed  to  traditional  rate of return
regulation.  The MTA relies  more on existing  federal  and state law  regarding
antitrust  consumer   protection  and  fair  trade  to  provide  safeguards  for
competition and consumers.

    FCC regulation.  The FCC regulates the interstate  services  provided by the
Company's telephone  subsidiaries  primarily by regulating the interstate access
charges that are billed to long  distance  companies  and other LEC customers by
the Company for use of its local network in connection  with the origination and
termination of interstate telephone calls. Additionally,  the FCC has prescribed
certain rules and regulations  for telephone  companies,  including  regulations
regarding the use of radio frequencies;  a uniform system of accounts; and rules
regarding the separation of costs between jurisdictions and, ultimately, between
interstate services.

    Effective January 1, 1991, the FCC adopted price-cap  regulation relating to
interstate access rates for the Regional Bell Operating  Companies ("RBOCs") and
GTE Corporation. All other LECs may elect to be subject to price-cap regulation.
Under price-cap  regulation,  limits imposed on a company's interstate rates are
adjusted periodically to reflect inflation, productivity improvement and changes
in certain  non-controllable  costs.  In May 1993 the FCC  adopted  an  optional
incentive  regulatory plan for LECs not subject to price-cap  regulation.  A LEC
electing the optional incentive  regulatory plan would, among other things, file
tariffs based primarily on historical costs and not be allowed to participate in
the relevant NECA pooling  arrangements.  The Company has not elected  price-cap
regulation  or the optional  incentive  regulatory  plan,  but will  continue to
evaluate  its  options  on a periodic  basis.  Either  election,  if made by the
Company,  would  have  to be  applicable  to  all  of  the  Company's  telephone
subsidiaries.  The authorized interstate access rate of return for the Company's
telephone  subsidiaries  is  currently  11.25%,  which  is the  authorized  rate
established  by the FCC for LECs not  governed by  price-cap  regulation  or the
optional incentive regulatory plan.

    In  September  1998,  the FCC  initiated a  proceeding  to  represcribe  the
authorized rate of return for interstate  access services  provided by LECs. The
FCC  periodically  represcribes  this rate of return to ensure  that the service
rates filed by incumbent LECs subject to rate of return  regulation  continue to
be just and reasonable. It is uncertain whether or by how much the FCC may lower
the authorized rate of return.

    In an access charge  reform order  adopted in May 1997,  the FCC changed its
system  of  interstate   access  charges  to  make  them   compatible  with  the
deregulatory  framework  established by the 1996 Act. Such changes are primarily
applicable  to  price-cap  companies.   The  Company's  telephone   subsidiaries
determine   interstate  revenues  under  rate  of  return  regulation  and  are,
therefore,  only minimally  impacted by the access charge reform order.  In July
1998, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed  Rulemaking to amend the access charge
rules for rate of return companies in a manner similar to that adopted for price
cap companies,  subject to reviewing whether differences exist between price cap
companies and rate of return  companies  that would require  different  rules in
order to achieve the goal of fostering an  efficient,  competitive  marketplace.
Comments  were filed with the FCC in August  1998;  the FCC has not yet issued a
final ruling on this matter.

    In 1998 the FCC created a federal-state joint board to review jurisdictional
separations  procedures through which the costs of regulated  telecommunications
services are allocated to the interstate and intrastate jurisdictions.

    High-cost support funds, revenue sharing arrangements and related matters. A
significant number of the Company's telephone  subsidiaries recover a portion of
their costs under federal and state cost recovery  mechanisms that traditionally
have  allowed  LECs  serving  small  communities  and  rural  areas  to  provide
communications  services reasonably comparable to those available in urban areas
and at reasonably comparable prices.

    The 1996 Act authorized the establishment of new federal and state universal
service  funds to  provide  continued  support  to  eligible  telecommunications
carriers. In May 1997 the FCC adopted an order on universal service, as mandated
by the 1996 Act.  In the order,  the FCC ruled that  rural  telephone  companies
which are  designated  eligible  telecommunications  carriers  will  continue to
receive  universal  service  funding.  Each of the  Company's  LECs  has been so
designated by its respective state regulatory agency. As a result, the Company's
LECs will  continue to receive  payments  under the federal  support  mechanisms
currently in effect until the FCC adopts  funding  support  mechanisms  based on
forward-looking  economic costs, which it is required to do, but no earlier than
January  2001.  Although  the  Company  anticipates  that  it may  experience  a
reduction  in its  federal  support  revenues  at  some  point  in  the  future,
management  believes it is premature  to assess or estimate the ultimate  impact
thereof.  There  can be no  assurance,  however,  that such  impact  will not be
material.  During 1998 and 1997 the Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  received
$127.6  million and $65.4  million,  respectively,  from the  federal  Universal
Service Fund.

    As part of its  universal  service  order,  the FCC also  established  a new
program to provide up to $2.25 billion of discounted telecommunications services
annually to schools and libraries, commencing January 1998. In addition, the FCC
established a $400 million annual fund to provide discounted  telecommunications
services for rural health care providers.  All communications carriers providing
interstate  telecommunications  services,  including the Company's  LECs and its
cellular  and long  distance  operations,  are required to  contribute  to these
programs.  The FCC has  stated  that local  exchange  telephone  companies  will
recover their funding contributions in their rates for interstate services.  The
Company's  contribution  by its cellular and long distance  operations for 1998,
which was passed on to its customers, was approximately $3.1 million.

    Some  of the  Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  operate  in  states  where
traditional  cost recovery  mechanisms,  including  rate  structures,  are under
evaluation  or have been  modified.  See  "-State  Regulation."  There can be no
assurance  that these  states  will  continue  to provide  for cost  recovery at
current levels.

    Substantially  all of the Company's LECs concur with the common line tariffs
and certain of the  Company's  LECs concur  with the traffic  sensitive  tariffs
filed  by the  NECA;  such  LECs  participate  in  the  access  revenue  sharing
arrangements  administered  by the  NECA  for  interstate  services.  All of the
intrastate  network  access  revenues of the Company's  LECs are based on access
charges, cost separation studies or special settlement arrangements.
See "-Services."

    Certain  long  distance  carriers  continue to request  that  certain of the
Company's LECs reduce  intrastate  access tariffed rates.  There is no assurance
that these requests will not result in decreased access revenues.

    Developments affecting competition. The communications industry is currently
undergoing fundamental changes which may have a significant impact on the future
operations and financial performance of all communications companies.  Primarily
as a result of legislative and regulatory initiatives and technological changes,
competition  has been  introduced and encouraged in each sector of the telephone
industry,  including, most recently, the local exchange sector. As a result, the
number of companies offering competitive services has increased substantially.

    As indicated  above,  in February 1996 Congress  enacted the 1996 Act, which
obligates LECs to permit  competitors to  interconnect  their  facilities to the
LEC's  network  and to take  various  other  steps that are  designed to promote
competition.  The 1996 Act  imposes  several  duties on a LEC if it  receives  a
specific  request  from  another  entity  which seeks to connect with or provide
services using the LEC's network.  In addition,  each incumbent LEC is obligated
to  (i)  negotiate  interconnection  agreements  in  good  faith,  (ii)  provide
"unbundled"  access to all aspects of the LEC's  network,  (iii) offer resale of
its  telecommunications  services at wholesale rates and (iv) permit competitors
to  collocate  its  physical  plant on the LEC's  property,  or provide  virtual
collocation if physical  collocation is not  practicable.  Although the 1996 Act
provides  certain  exemptions  for  rural  LECs  such as those  operated  by the
Company,  the  FCC's  August  1996  order  implementing  most of the 1996  Act's
interconnection   provisions   placed  the  burden  of  proving  the  continuing
availability  of these  exemptions on rural LECs.  States are permitted to adopt
laws or regulations that provide for greater  competition than is mandated under
the  1996  Act.  Although   substantial   portions  of  the  FCC's  August  1996
interconnection  order have  survived  judicial  challenge,  the FCC has neither
completed its  interconnection  rulemaking nor issued rules on universal service
or access reform.  Management believes that competition in its telephone service
areas will  ultimately  increase as a result of the 1996 Act,  although the form
and degree of competition cannot be ascertained until such time as the FCC (and,
in  certain   instances,   state  regulatory   commissions)   adopts  final  and
nonappealable implementing regulations.

    Substantially  all of the 21 states in which the Company provides  telephone
services  have  taken  legislative  or  regulatory  steps to  further  introduce
competition  into the LEC  business.  Largely as a result of these steps and the
1996 Act, several competitive access providers  originally  organized to provide
redundancy or access  services  have begun,  during the past several  years,  to
provide  competitive  local  exchange  services,  principally  in  urban  areas.
Moreover, several well-capitalized long distance, cable television, wireless and
electric utility  companies,  along with several start-up  companies,  have also
begun  to  provide  competitive  local  exchange  services  or  announced  their
intention  to do so, and this  trend is  expected  to  continue.  Currently  the
Company is subject to a limited number of agreements  permitting  competitors in
Wisconsin to purchase from the Company  unbundled  network elements or wholesale
services,  and the  Company  is aware of only a few  other  companies  that have
requested  authorization  to provide  local  exchange  service in the  Company's
service areas.  Over time,  however,  the Company  anticipates that several more
companies will request authorization to provide competitive services, especially
in its operating areas located near larger urban areas.

    In addition to receiving  services  directly from  companies  competing with
incumbent  LECs,  long  distance  companies  and other users of toll service are
expected to increasingly seek other means to bypass LECs' switching services and
local distribution  facilities.  Certain interexchange carriers provide services
which allow users to divert their traffic from LECs' usage-sensitive services to
their  flat-rate  services.  In addition,  users or long distance  companies may
construct,  modify or lease  facilities to transmit traffic directly from a user
to a long distance company.  Cable television companies,  in particular,  may be
able to modify their  networks to partially or  completely  bypass the Company's
local  network.  Moreover,  users may choose to use wireless  services to bypass
LECs'  switching   services.   Although  certain  of  the  Company's   telephone
subsidiaries  have  experienced  a loss of traffic to such  bypass,  the Company
believes that the impact of such loss on revenues has not been significant.

    Historically,  cellular telephone services have complemented traditional LEC
services.  However,  the Company anticipates that existing and emerging wireless
technologies  will  increasingly  compete with LEC services.  Technological  and
regulatory developments in cellular telephone, personal communications services,
digital microwave,  coaxial cable,  fiber optics,  local-multipoint-distribution
services  and other  wired and  wireless  technologies  are  expected to further
permit the  development of alternatives to traditional  landline  services.  For
further information on certain of these developments, see "Wireless Operations -
Regulation and Competition."

    To  the  extent  that  the  telephone  industry   increasingly   experiences
competition,   the  size  and  resources  of  each  respective   competitor  may
increasingly  influence its  prospects.  Many companies  currently  providing or
planning  to  provide  competitive  communication  services  have  substantially
greater financial and marketing resources than the Company,  and several are not
subject to the same regulatory constraints as the Company.

    The Company  anticipates  that the  traditional  operations  of LECs will be
increasingly  impacted  by  continued  technological  developments  as  well  as
legislative and regulatory  initiatives affecting the ability of LECs to provide
new services and the capability of long distance  companies,  competitive  local
exchange providers, wireless companies, cable television companies and others to
provide competitive LEC services. Competition relating to services traditionally
provided  solely by LECs is expected to initially  affect large urban areas to a
greater extent than rural, suburban and small urban areas such as those in which
the  Company   operates.   The  Company   intends  to  actively   monitor  these
developments,  to observe the effect of emerging  competitive  trends in initial
competitive markets and to continue to evaluate new business  opportunities that
may arise out of future technological, legislative and regulatory developments.

    The Company  anticipates that regulatory  changes and competitive  pressures
may result in future revenue  reductions in its telephone  operations.  However,
the Company  anticipates  that such  reductions may be minimized by increases in
revenues  attributable  to the  continued  demand for enhanced  services and new
product offerings.  While the Company expects its telephone revenues to continue
to grow, its internal  telephone  revenue  growth rate may slow during  upcoming
periods.

                               CELLULAR OPERATIONS

    At  December  31,  1998,  the  Company's   cellular   holdings   represented
approximately  10.1 million pops,  of which 67% were  applicable to MSAs and 33%
were RSA pops.  According to data derived from published sources, the Company is
the tenth largest cellular  telephone  company in the United States based on the
Company's 10.1 million pops.

Cellular Industry

    The cellular  telephone  industry has been in existence for approximately 15
years in the United  States.  The industry has grown  significantly  during this
period and cellular service is now available in  substantially  all areas of the
United   States.   According   to  the  Cellular   Telecommunications   Industry
Association,  at  September  1998  there  were  estimated  to be over 51 million
cellular customers across the United States.

    Until recently,  substantially  all radio  transmissions of cellular systems
were  conducted on an analog  basis.  Technological  developments  involving the
application of digital radio  technology  offer certain  advantages  over analog
technologies, including expanding the capacity of mobile communications systems,
improving voice clarity, permitting the introduction of new services, and making
such  systems  more  secure.  Providers  of certain  services  competitive  with
cellular have incorporated  digital technology into their operations.  In recent
years most  major  cellular  carriers  have  installed  digital  cellular  voice
transmission  facilities  in certain  of their  systems,  principally  in larger
markets.  Digital  service is now  available in 95% of the Company's MSA markets
and the Company plans to expand the marketing of such service  during 1999.  See
"-Regulation and Competition-Developments Affecting Wireless Competition."

Construction and Maintenance

    The construction  and maintenance of cellular systems is capital  intensive.
Although  all of the  Company's  MSA and RSA systems have been  operational  for
several years, the Company has continued to add cell sites to increase coverage,
provide additional  capacity,  and improve the quality of these systems. In 1998
the Company  completed  construction of 57 cell sites in markets operated by the
Company.  At  December  31,  1998,  the Company  operated  615 cell sites in its
majority-owned markets.

    During  the last few years the  Company  upgraded  certain  portions  of its
cellular systems to be capable of providing digital service. Such service became
operational  in certain  markets  during  1996 and 1997  using the TDMA  digital
standard  and the  Company  continued  to  install  digital  voice  transmission
facilities    in   other    markets    in    1998.    See    "-Regulation    and
Competition-Developments  Affecting Wireless  Competition." Capital expenditures
related to majority-owned  and operated  cellular systems totaled  approximately
$49.5 million in 1998. Such capital  expenditures for 1999 are anticipated to be
approximately $70 million.

Strategy

    The  Company's  business  development  strategy for its  cellular  telephone
operations   is  to  secure   operating   control  of  service  areas  that  are
geographically clustered. Clustered cellular systems aid the Company's marketing
efforts and provide various operating and service advantages.  Approximately 43%
of the  Company's  pops in  markets  operated  by the  Company  are in a single,
contiguous cluster of eight MSAs and nine RSAs in Michigan; another 17% are in a
cluster of five MSAs and seven RSAs in northern and central Louisiana,  southern
Arkansas and eastern Texas. See "-The Company's Cellular Interests."

    Another component of the Company's strategy for cellular operations includes
capturing  revenues from roaming  service.  Roaming service revenues are derived
from calls made in one cellular  service area by subscribers  from other service
areas.  Roaming service is made possible by technical  standards  requiring that
cellular telephones be functionally  compatible with the cellular systems in all
United  States  market  areas.  In exchange  for  providing  roaming  service to
customers of other cellular carriers,  the Company charges premium rates to most
of  these  other  carriers,  who  then  frequently  pass on some or all of these
premium rates to their own customers. The Company's Michigan cellular properties
include a significant portion of the interstate highway corridor between Chicago
and Detroit.  Its Louisiana  properties include an east-west  interstate highway
and a north-south  interstate  highway which intersect in its Louisiana cellular
service  area.  Its  Mississippi  properties  include two  east-west  interstate
highways and two north-south interstate highways. See "-Services,  Customers and
System Usage."

Marketing

    The Company  markets its  cellular  services  through  several  distribution
channels,  including its direct sales force, retail outlets owned by the Company
and  independent  agents.  All sales  employees and certain  independent  agents
solicit cellular customers exclusively for the Company.  Company sales employees
are compensated by salary and commission and  independent  sales agents are paid
commissions.   The  Company  advertises  its  services  through  various  means,
including  direct mail,  billboard,  magazine,  radio,  television and newspaper
advertisements.

    The  sales  and  marketing  costs  of  obtaining  new  subscribers   include
advertising and a direct expense  applicable to most new subscribers,  either in
the form of a commission payment to an agent or an incentive payment to a direct
sales  employee.  In  addition,  the  Company  discounts  the  cost of  cellular
telephone  equipment,  and periodically runs promotions which waive certain fees
or provide some amount of free service to new  subscribers.  The average cost of
acquiring each new customer ($268 in 1998) remains one of the larger expenses in
conducting the Company's cellular  operations.  In recent years, the Company has
sought to lower this  average cost by focusing  more on its direct  distribution
channels.  The Company  opened its first retail  outlet in 1994,  and  currently
operates  59  such  outlets.  During  1998,  approximately  58% of new  cellular
customers were added through direct  distribution  channels,  up from 37% during
1996.

Services, Customers and System Usage

    There are a number of different types of cellular  telephones,  all of which
are currently  compatible with cellular systems nationwide.  The Company sells a
full range of  vehicle-mounted,  transportable,  and hand-held portable cellular
telephones.

    The Company charges its  subscribers for access to its systems,  for minutes
of use and for enhanced services,  such as voice mail. A subscriber may purchase
certain of these  services  separately  or may purchase  rate plans which bundle
these  services in  different  ways and are  designed to fit  different  calling
patterns.  While the Company  historically  has typically  charged its customers
separately  for  custom-calling  features,  air time in excess  of the  packaged
amount, and toll calls, it currently offers plans which include features such as
unlimited  toll calls and unlimited  weekend  calling in certain  calling areas.
Custom-calling  features  provided  by  the  Company  include   call-forwarding,
call-waiting, three-way calling and no-answer transfer. The Company offers voice
message service in many of its markets.  In the Company's  markets where digital
service is  operational,  customers can subscribe to caller ID and other digital
enhancements.

    Cellular  customers  come from a wide  range of  occupations  and  typically
include a large  proportion of individuals who work outside of their office.  In
recent years,  the  individual  consumer  market has generated a majority of new
customer  additions.  The Company's average monthly cellular service revenue per
customer  declined to $57 in 1998 from $61 in 1997 and $63 in 1996. Such average
revenue per customer may further decline (i) as market penetration increases and
additional lower usage customers are activated and (ii) as competitive pressures
from  current  and  future  wireless  communications  providers  intensify.  See
"-Regulation and Competition."

    Most  cellular  systems  allow a  customer  to place or  receive a call in a
cellular service area away from the customer's home market area. The Company has
entered into  "roaming  agreements"  with  operators of other  cellular  systems
covering  virtually all markets in the United States;  such agreements offer the
Company's  customers the opportunity to roam in these markets.  Also, a customer
of a  participating  non-Company  system  traveling in a market  operated by the
Company where this arrangement is in effect is able to automatically  make calls
on the Company's system.  The charge to a non-Company  customer for this service
is typically at premium  rates,  and is billed by the Company to the  customer's
service  provider,  which then bills the customer.  In most instances,  based on
competitive factors and financial considerations,  the Company charges an amount
to its customers that is equal to or lower than the amount  actually  charged by
the cellular carrier providing the roaming service. The Company anticipates that
competitive  factors and industry  consolidation  may place further  pressure on
charging premium roaming rates.  For additional  information on roaming revenue,
see "-Strategy."

    Roamer fraud, a cellular  industry problem,  occurs when cellular  telephone
equipment is  programmed  to conceal the true identity and location of the user.
The Company and the industry have implemented  extensive fraud control processes
in an attempt to minimize roamer fraud.

    Churn rate (the average  percentage  of cellular  customers  that  terminate
service each month) is an industry-wide  concern.  A significant  portion of the
churn in the Company's  markets is due to the Company  disconnecting  service to
cellular customers for nonpayment of their bills. In addition, the Company faces
substantial  competition  from  the  other  wireless  providers,  including  PCS
providers.  The Company's average monthly churn rate in its  majority-owned  and
operated  markets was 2.23% in 1998 and 2.31% in 1997. The Company is attempting
to lower its churn rate by increasing its proactive customer service efforts and
through the implementation of additional customer retention programs.

    During recent years, the Company's cellular subsidiaries  experienced strong
subscriber growth in the fourth quarter, primarily due to holiday season sales.

    The following  table  summarizes,  among other things,  certain  information
about the Company's customers and market penetration:


Notes:

1.  Represents  the number of systems in which the Company  owned at least a 50%
    interest.  The revenues and expenses of these cellular markets, all of which
    are operated by the  Company,  are  included in the  Company's  consolidated
    operating revenues and operating expenses.
2.  Based on independent third-party population estimates for each respective
    year.
3.  Represents the approximate number of revenue-generating cellular telephones
    served by the cellular systems referred to in note 1.
4.  Computed by dividing the number of customers at the end of the period by the
    total population of systems referred to in note 1.
5.  Represents the average percentage of customers that are disconnected on a
    monthly  basis. 
6.  Represents the total number of systems that the Company operated, including
    systems in which it does not own a majority interest.
7.  Represents the approximate number of revenue-generating cellular telephones
    served by the cellular systems referred to in note 6.
8   Computed by dividing the number of customers at the end of the period by the
    total population of systems referred to in note 6.

The Company's Cellular Interests

   The Company  obtained the right to provide  cellular  service through (i) the
FCC's licensing  process described below,  under which it received  interests in
wireline licenses, and (ii) its acquisition program, under which it has acquired
interests in both wireline and non-wireline licenses. The table below sets forth
certain  information  with respect to the interests in cellular systems that the
Company owned as of December 31, 1998:



Notes:

1. Based on 1998 independent third-party population estimates.
2. Information provided to the best of the Company's knowledge. There is also at
   least one PCS  competitor  in each of the  operated  MSAs and  certain of the
   operated RSAs.
3. Markets not operated by the Company. 
4. Represents a non-wireline interest.

   For information on certain cellular properties that the Company has agreed to
sell, see "-Recent acquisitions and dispositions" above.

Operations

    A substantial number of the cellular systems in MSAs operated by the Company
are owned by limited  partnerships  in which the  Company  is a general  partner
("MSA  Partnerships").  Most of these  partnerships  are governed by partnership
agreements  with  similar  terms,  including,   among  other  things,  customary
provisions concerning capital contributions,  sharing of profits and losses, and
dissolution  and  termination  of the  partnership.  Most of  these  partnership
agreements vest complete operational control of the partnership with the general
partner.  The general partner  typically has the power to manage,  supervise and
conduct  the  affairs of the  partnership,  make all  decisions  appropriate  in
connection with the business purposes of the partnership,  and incur obligations
and execute  agreements on behalf of the  partnership.  The general partner also
may make  decisions  regarding  the time and  amount of cash  contributions  and
distributions,  and the nature,  timing and extent of construction,  without the
consent of the other partners.  The Company owns more than 50% of all of the MSA
Partnerships.

    A substantial number of the cellular systems in RSAs operated by the Company
are also owned by limited or general partnerships in which the Company is either
the general or managing partner (the "RSA Partnerships"). These partnerships are
governed by partnership agreements with varying terms and provisions. In many of
these partnerships,  the noncontrolling partners have the right to vote on major
issues  such  as  the  annual  budget  and  system  design.  In a few  of  these
partnerships,  the Company's  management position is for a limited term (similar
to a management  contract) and the other  partners in the  partnership  have the
right to change managers,  with or without cause. The Company owns less than 50%
of some of the RSA Partnerships.

    The  partnership   agreements  for  both  the  MSA   Partnerships   and  RSA
Partnerships generally contain provisions granting all partners a right of first
refusal in the event a partner desires to transfer a partnership interest.  This
restriction on transfer can under certain  circumstances  make these partnership
interests more difficult to sell to a third party.

Revenue

    The following table reflects the major revenue  categories for the Company's
wireless operations as a percentage of wireless operating revenues in 1998, 1997
and 1996.

                                                1998        1997        1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cellular access fees and toll revenues          74.2%       78.2        79.7
Cellular roaming                                23.6        20.0        18.6
Equipment sales                                  2.2         1.8         1.7
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               100.0%      100.0       100.0
============================================================================

    For further information on these revenue categories, see
"-Services, Customers and System Usage."

Regulation and Competition

    As discussed  below,  the FCC and various state public  utility  commissions
regulate,   among  other  things,   the  licensing,   construction,   operation,
interconnection  arrangements,   sale  and  acquisition  of  cellular  telephone
systems.

    Competition  between  providers of wireless  communications  service in each
market is conducted principally on the basis of price, services and enhancements
offered,  the technical quality and coverage of the system,  and the quality and
responsiveness  of  customer  service.  As  discussed  below,   competition  has
intensified  in recent years in a substantial  number of the Company's  markets.
Under  applicable  law,  the Company is required to permit the  reselling of its
services. In certain larger markets and in certain market segments,  competition
from resellers may be  significant.  There is also  substantial  competition for
sales agents.  Certain of the Company's  competitors have substantially  greater
assets and resources than the Company.

    Cellular licensing process. The term "MSA" means a Metropolitan  Statistical
Area for which the FCC has granted a cellular operating license.  The term "RSA"
means a Rural  Service  Area for which the FCC has granted a cellular  operating
license.  During  the 1980's  and early  1990's,  the FCC  awarded  two  10-year
licenses to provide cellular service in each MSA and RSA market.  Initially, one
license was reserved  for  companies  offering  local  telephone  service in the
market  (the  wireline   carrier)  and  one  license  was  available  for  firms
unaffiliated with the local telephone company (the non-wireline carrier).  Since
mid-1986,  the FCC has  permitted  telephone  companies or their  affiliates  to
acquire  control of  non-wireline  licenses in markets in which they do not hold
interests in the wireline  license.  The FCC has issued a decision that grants a
renewal expectancy during the license renewal period to incumbent licensees that
substantially   comply  with  the  terms  and   conditions  of  their   cellular
authorizations  and the FCC's  regulations.  The  licenses  for the MSA  markets
operated  by the Company  were  initially  granted  between  1984 and 1987,  and
licenses for operated RSAs were initially  granted  between 1989 and 1991.  Thus
far, the Company has received  10-year  extensions  of all of its licenses  that
have become subject to renewal since their original grant dates.

    The  completion  of an  acquisition  involving  the transfer of control of a
cellular  system  requires prior FCC approval and, in certain cases,  receipt of
other federal and state  regulatory  approvals.  The  acquisition  of a minority
interest  generally  does not require FCC  approval.  Whenever  FCC  approval is
required,  any  interested  party may file a  petition  to  dismiss  or deny the
application for approval of the proposed transfer.

    In  addition  to  regulation  by the FCC,  cellular  systems  are subject to
certain Federal Aviation  Administration tower height regulations concerning the
siting and construction of cellular transmitter towers and antennas.

    Cellular  operators  are also subject to state and local  regulation in some
instances.   Although  the  FCC  has  pre-empted  the  states  from   exercising
jurisdiction  in  the  areas  of  licensing,   technical  standards  and  market
structure,  certain  states  require  cellular  operators  to be  certified.  In
addition,  some  state  authorities  regulate  certain  aspects  of  a  cellular
operator's  business,  including certain aspects of pricing,  the resale of long
distance  service to its customers,  the technical  arrangements and charges for
interconnection  with the  landline  network,  and the  transfer of interests in
cellular  systems.  The siting and  construction of the cellular  facilities may
also be subject to state or local zoning, land use and other local regulations.

    Developments  affecting  wireless  competition.  Competition in the wireless
communications  industry has increased due to continued and rapid  technological
advances in the  communications  field,  coupled with legislative and regulatory
changes.

    Several recent FCC initiatives  over the past several years have resulted in
the  allocation  of  additional  radio  spectrum or the issuance of licenses for
emerging  mobile  communications  technologies  that  are  competitive  with the
Company's cellular and telephone  operations,  including personal  communication
services ("PCS"). Although there is no universally recognized definition of PCS,
the term is  generally  used to refer to  wireless  services  to be  provided by
licensees  operating  in the 1850 MHz to 1990 MHz  radio  frequency  band  using
microcells and high-capacity digital technology.  In 1996 and early 1997 the FCC
auctioned  up to six PCS licenses per market.  Two 30MHz  frequency  blocks were
awarded for each of the 51 Rand McNally Major Trading Areas ("MTAs"),  while one
30MHz and three 10MHz  frequency  blocks  were  awarded for each of the 493 Rand
McNally Basic Trading Areas ("BTAs").

    PCS technology  permits PCS operators to offer wireless voice,  data,  image
and multimedia services.  The largest PCS providers commenced initial operations
in late 1996 and since then have aggressively  expanded their operations.  These
providers have initially focused on larger markets,  and have generally marketed
PCS as being a competitive  service to cellular.  Many of these  companies  have
aggressively  competed  for  customers  on the basis of price,  which has placed
downward  pressure on cellular  prices.  There is at least one PCS competitor in
each of the Company's operated MSAs and certain of its operated RSAs.

    In addition to PCS, users and potential  users of cellular  systems may find
their   communication   needs   satisfied  by  other   current  and   developing
technologies.  Several  years ago the FCC  authorized  the  licensees of certain
specialized  mobile radio  service  ("SMR")  systems  (which  historically  have
generally  been used by taxicabs and tow truck  operators)  to  configure  their
systems  into  digital  networks  that  operate in a manner  similar to cellular
systems.  Such systems are commonly referred to as enhanced  specialized  mobile
radio  service  ("ESMR")  systems.  The Company  believes  that ESMR systems are
operating in a few of its cellular markets. One  well-established  ESMR provider
has  constructed a nationwide  digital mobile  communications  system to compete
with  cellular  systems.  Other  similar  communication  services  that have the
technical  capability to handle wireless telephone calls may provide competition
in certain  markets,  although  these  services  currently  lack the  subscriber
capacity  of cellular  systems.  Paging or beeper  services  that  feature  text
message  and  data  display  as well as  tones  may be  adequate  for  potential
subscribers  who do not  need to  converse  directly  with  the  caller.  Mobile
satellite  systems,   in  which  transmissions  are  between  mobile  units  and
satellites, may ultimately be successful in obtaining market share from cellular
systems that communicate directly to land-based stations.

    In recent years,  several large  cellular  providers  have merged with other
companies or formed joint ventures. Several of these joint ventures pooled their
resources  to  develop   extensive  PCS  systems.   Many  current  or  potential
competitors of the Company have  substantially  greater  financial and marketing
resources than the Company.

    Although it is uncertain how PCS, SMR,  ESMR,  mobile  satellites  and other
emerging   technologies  will  ultimately   affect  the  Company,   the  Company
anticipates that it will continue to face increased competition in its operating
markets.  However,  management  believes  that  providing  digital  services and
applying new  microcellular  technologies  will permit its  cellular  systems to
provide  services  comparable with the emerging  technologies  described  above,
although  no  assurances  can be given  that  this will  happen  or that  future
technological  advances or  legislative  or  regulatory  changes will not create
additional sources of competition.

                                OTHER OPERATIONS

    The Company provides long distance, call center, security monitoring,  cable
television and interactive  services in certain local and regional  markets,  as
well as certain printing and related services.  The results of these operations,
which accounted for 4.9% and 3.2%,  respectively,  of the Company's consolidated
revenues and operating income during 1998, are reflected for financial reporting
purposes in the "Other operations" section in operating income.

    Long distance.  In 1996 the Company began marketing long distance service in
all of its equal access  telephone  operating  areas.  At December 31, 1998, the
Company  provided long distance  services to  approximately  227,000  customers.
Approximately  65% of the  Company's  long  distance  revenues  are derived from
service  provided  to  residential  customers.  Although  the  Company  owns and
operates long distance switches in LaCrosse, Wisconsin and San Marcos, Texas, it
anticipates  that most of its future  long  distance  service  revenues  will be
provided  by  reselling  service  purchased  from  other  facilities-based  long
distance providers.  The Company intends to continue to expand its long distance
business, principally through reselling arrangements.

    Call center.  The Company provides certain operator  services for retail and
wholesale  markets.  The retail market consists primarily of the hospitality and
payphone  industries.   The  wholesale  market  consists  of  other  independent
telephone companies and interexchange carriers.

    PCS. In early 1997 the Company was awarded 12 PCS licenses,  11 of which are
in Michigan,  in connection  with the FCC's auctions of 10MHz PCS licenses.  The
licenses cover areas with a population of approximately 4.0 million. As a result
of the PTI acquisition,  the Company acquired PCS licenses that cover areas with
a population of approximately 4.1 million.  In 1998, the Company began marketing
PCS  service  in  select  Michigan  markets  as  a  fixed  wireless  local  loop
alternative to the LEC's service in these markets.  Approximately $15 million of
the  Company's  1999  capital  expenditure  budget  is  for  development  of the
Company's PCS networks.

    Security monitoring. The Company offers 24-hour burglary and fire monitoring
services  to  approximately  6,000  customers  in select  markets in  Louisiana,
Arkansas,  Mississippi,  Texas  and  Ohio.  The  Company  plans  to  expand  the
availability of this service to more of its markets in 1999.

    Other.  The  Company,  through  one or  more of its  subsidiaries,  provides
audiotext services;  printing, database management and direct mail services; and
cable  television  services.  In connection  with its  long-range  plans to sell
capacity to other carriers in or near certain of its select markets, the Company
is  currently  constructing  a $20  million  650-to  700-mile  fiber  optic ring
connecting  several  communities in southern and central  Michigan.  The Company
also holds minority equity investments in certain communications  companies, and
is in the  process  of  developing  deployment  plans  for 32  Local  Multipoint
Distribution System licenses acquired by the Company in 1998.

    Certain  service  subsidiaries  of  the  company  provide  installation  and
maintenance  services,  materials and supplies,  and  managerial,  technical and
accounting  services to the telephone and wireless  operating  subsidiaries.  In
addition,  Century provides and bills management services to subsidiaries and in
certain  instances makes  interest-bearing  advances to finance  construction of
plant and  purchases  of  equipment.  These  transactions  are  recorded  by the
Company's regulated telephone subsidiaries at their cost to the extent permitted
by regulatory  authorities.  Intercompany  profit on transactions with regulated
affiliates  is limited to a  reasonable  return on  investment  and has not been
eliminated in connection with consolidating the results of operations of Century
and its subsidiaries.  Such intercompany profit is reflected in operating income
in the "Other operations" segment.


                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

    This report on Form 10-K and other  documents filed by the Company under the
federal  securities laws include,  and future oral or written  statements of the
Company and its  management  may include,  certain  forward-looking  statements,
including   without   limitation   statements  with  respect  to  the  Company's
anticipated future operating and financial performance  (including the impact of
pending  acquisitions),  financial position and liquidity,  growth opportunities
and growth  rates,  business  prospects,  regulatory  and  competitive  outlook,
investment and expenditure plans,  financing sources,  pricing plans,  strategic
alternatives,  business strategies, and other similar statements of expectations
or objectives  that are  highlighted by words such as "expects,"  "anticipates,"
"intends," "plans," "believes,"  "projects," "seeks," "estimates," "should," and
"may," and  variations  thereof and similar  expressions.  Such  forward-looking
statements are  inherently  speculative  and are based upon several  assumptions
concerning  future events,  many of which are outside of the Company's  control.
The Company's  forward-looking  statements,  and the assumptions upon which such
statements  are  based,  are  subject  to  uncertainties  that  could  cause the
Company's  actual  results  to differ  materially  from such  statements.  These
uncertainties include but are not limited to those set forth below:

    o the effects of ongoing deregulation in the telecommunications  industry as
a result of the 1996 Act and other  similar  federal and state  legislation  and
federal and state regulations enacted  thereunder,  including without limitation
(i) greater than  anticipated  interconnection  requests or  competition  in the
Company's   predominately  rural  local  exchange  telephone  markets  resulting
therefrom,  (ii) greater than anticipated  reductions in revenues  received from
the Universal  Service Fund or other current or future federal and state support
funds designed to compensate  LECs that provide  services in high-cost  markets,
(iii) the final outcome of regulatory and judicial  proceedings  with respect to
interconnection  agreements and access charge reforms and (iv) future regulatory
actions taken in response to the 1996 Act.

    o the effects of greater than  anticipated  competition from PCS, SMR, ESMR,
satellite or other wireless companies,  including without limitation competition
requiring new pricing or marketing strategies or new product offerings,  and the
attendant  risk  that the  Company  will not be able to  respond  on a timely or
profitable basis.

    o possible  changes in the demand for the  Company's  products and services,
including without  limitation (i) lower than anticipated  demand for traditional
or premium telephone services or for additional access lines per household, (ii)
lower than anticipated demand for wireless telephone services, whether caused by
changes in economic  conditions,  technology,  competition,  health  concerns or
otherwise,  and (iii)  reduced  demand for the  Company's  access or billing and
collection services.

    o the Company's ability to successfully  introduce new offerings on a timely
and cost-effective basis,  including without limitation the Company's ability to
(i) expand  successfully its long distance and Internet offerings to new markets
(including  those  acquired in  December  1997 in the PTI  acquisition  or to be
acquired in connection  with future  acquisitions),  (ii) offer bundled  service
packages on terms  attractive to its  customers,  (iii) offer  digital  cellular
service and (iv)  successfully  initiate  PCS and data  services in its targeted
markets.

    o the  risks  inherent  in rapid  technological  change,  including  without
limitation (i) the lack of assurance that the Company's ongoing wireless network
improvements  will be sufficient to meet or exceed the  capabilities and quality
of  competing  networks,  (ii)  technological  developments  that could make the
Company's analog and digital wireless networks  uncompetitive or obsolete,  such
as the risk  that the  Time  Division  Multiple  Access  technology  used by the
Company  will be  uncompetitive  with  Code  Division  Multiple  Access or other
digital technologies, and (iii) the risk that technologies will not be developed
by the  Company  on a timely or  cost-effective  basis or perform  according  to
expectations.

    o the Company's ability to effectively manage its growth,  including without
limitation the Company's ability to (i) integrate newly-acquired operations into
the Company's  operations,  (ii) attract and retain  technological and other key
personnel to work at the Company's  Monroe,  Louisiana  headquarters or regional
offices,  (iii) achieve projected economies of scale and cost savings, (iv) meet
pro  forma  cash  flow   projections   developed   by   management   in  valuing
newly-acquired businesses and (v) implement necessary internal controls.

    o the success and expense of the remediation  efforts of the Company and its
vendors in achieving  year 2000  compliance  (as discussed in greater  detail in
Item 7 of this report).

    o  regulatory  limits on the  Company's  ability  to change  its  prices for
telephone services in response to competitive pressures.

    o any  difficulties  in the Company's  ability to expand through  additional
acquisitions, whether caused by financing constraints, a decrease in the pool of
attractive  target  companies,   or  competition  for  acquisitions  from  other
interested buyers.

    o  higher  than  anticipated  wireless  operating  costs  due to churn or to
fraudulent uses of the Company's networks.

    o the lack of  assurance  that the Company can compete  effectively  against
better-capitalized competitors.

    o  the  future   unavailability  of  SFAS  71  to  the  Company's  telephone
subsidiaries.

    o the effects of more general factors, including without limitation:

      .  changes in general industry and market conditions and growth rates
      .  changes in interest rates or other general national, regional or local
         economic conditions
      .  changes in legislation, regulation or public policy, including changes
         in federal rural financing programs
      .  unanticipated increases in capital, operating or administrative costs,
         or the impact of new business opportunities requiring significant 
         up-front investments
      .  the continued availability of financing in amounts, and on terms and 
         conditions,necessary to support the Company's operations
      .  changes in the Company's relationships with vendors
      .  changes in the Company's senior debt ratings
      .  unfavorable outcomes of regulatory or legal proceedings, including 
         rate proceedings
      .  changes in accounting policies or practices adopted voluntarily or as 
         required by generally accepted accounting principles.

    For additional  information,  see the description of the Company's  business
included  above, as well as Item 7 of this report.  Due to these  uncertainties,
you are cautioned not to place undue reliance upon the Company's forward-looking
statements,  which speak only as of the date hereof.  The Company  undertakes no
obligation  to update or revise any of its  forward-looking  statements  for any
reason.

                                  OTHER MATTERS

    The Company has certain  obligations based on federal,  state and local laws
relating to the protection of the environment.  Costs of compliance through 1998
have not been  material and the Company  currently has no reason to believe that
such costs will become material.

    For  additional  information  concerning  the business and properties of the
Company, see notes 2, 4, 6, and 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
set forth in Item 8 elsewhere herein.

Item 2.  Properties.

    The Company's properties consist principally of (i) telephone lines, central
office  equipment,  telephone  instruments and related  equipment,  and land and
buildings  related to telephone  operations,  and (ii)  switching  and cell site
equipment related to cellular telephone operations.  As of December 31, 1998 and
1997, the Company's gross property,  plant and equipment of  approximately  $4.3
billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, consisted of the following:



    "Cable and wire"  facilities  consist  primarily  of buried cable and aerial
cable,  poles,  wire,  conduit and drops.  "Central office  equipment"  consists
primarily of switching  equipment,  circuit  equipment  and related  facilities.
"General support" consists  primarily of land,  buildings,  tools,  furnishings,
fixtures,     motor     vehicles     and    work     equipment.     "Information
origination/termination  equipment"  consists  primarily  of  premise  equipment
(private branch  exchanges and telephones) for official company use. "Cell site"
consists primarily of radio frequency channel equipment, switching equipment and
towers. "Construction in progress" includes property of the foregoing categories
that has not been placed in service because it is still under construction.

    Most of the properties of the Company's  telephone  subsidiaries are subject
to mortgages securing the debt of such companies. The Company owns substantially
all of the central office buildings, local administrative buildings, warehouses,
and storage facilities used in its telephone operations. The Company leases most
of the offices used in its cellular operations; certain of its transmitter sites
are leased while others are owned by the Company. For further information on the
location  and type of the  Company's  properties,  see the  descriptions  of the
Company's telephone and cellular operations in Item 1.

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.

    From time to time,  the Company is involved in litigation  incidental to its
business,  including administrative hearings of state public utility commissions
relating  primarily  to  rate  making,  actions  relating  to  employee  claims,
occasional grievance hearings before labor regulatory agencies and miscellaneous
third party tort actions. Currently, there are no material legal proceedings.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

   Not applicable.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

    Information  concerning Executive Officers, set forth at Item 10 in Part III
hereof, is incorporated in Part I of this Report by reference.

                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.

   Century's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded
under the  symbol  CTL.  The  following  table  sets forth the high and low sale
prices, along with the quarterly  dividends,  for each of the quarters indicated
(adjusted to reflect the March 1999 three-for-two stock split):



   Common stock  dividends  during 1997 and 1998 were paid each  quarter.  As of
February 28, 1999,  there were  approximately  6,054  stockholders  of record of
Century's common stock.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.

   The following table presents certain selected consolidated  financial data as
of and for each of the years ended in the  five-year  period ended  December 31,
1998:

Selected Income Statement Data


Selected Balance Sheet Data



    The following table presents certain selected consolidated operating data as
of the end of each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 1998:



    See  Items 1 and 2 in Part I and  notes 1, 2 and 6 of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements  set  forth  in Item 8  elsewhere  herein  for  additional
information.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
         and Results of Operations


                              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

   Century Telephone  Enterprises,  Inc., which operates under the trade name of
CenturyTel,  and its  subsidiaries  (the "Company"),  is a regional  diversified
communications  company engaged primarily in providing local exchange  telephone
services and cellular telephone  communications  services. At December 31, 1998,
the Company's local exchange  telephone  subsidiaries  operated over 1.3 million
telephone access lines primarily in rural,  suburban and small urban areas in 21
states, and the Company's majority-owned and operated cellular entities had more
than  624,000   cellular   subscribers.   On  December  1,  1997,   the  Company
significantly expanded its operations by acquiring Pacific Telecom, Inc. ("PTI")
for $1.503 billion cash. As a result of the  acquisition,  the Company  acquired
(i) over 660,000 telephone access lines,  (ii) over 88,000 cellular  subscribers
and (iii) various wireless, cable television and other communications assets. On
December 1, 1998, the Company acquired from affiliates of Ameritech  Corporation
("Ameritech")  telephone  operations serving 86,000 access lines in northern and
central Wisconsin and the related telephone  directories for approximately  $221
million cash.  The  operations  of PTI are included in the Company's  results of
operations beginning December 1, 1997 and the operations of the former Ameritech
properties  are  included  in the  Company's  results  of  operations  beginning
December 1, 1998. See Acquisitions and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information. During the three years ended December 31,
1998, the Company has acquired various other telephone and cellular  operations,
the impact of which has not been material to the financial  position and results
of operations of the Company.

   The net income of the Company for 1998 was $228.8 million, compared to $256.0
million during 1997 and $129.1 million during 1996.  Diluted  earnings per share
for 1998 were $1.64  compared to $1.87 in 1997 and $.95 in 1996.  Excluding gain
on sale or exchange of assets,  the Company's  net income (and diluted  earnings
per share) for 1998,  1997 and 1996 was $198.2 million  ($1.42),  $149.6 million
($1.09) and $128.6 million ($.95), respectively.



   The Company's  operating  income for 1998 was $479.8 million,  an increase of
$212.0 million (79.2%) over 1997 operating income of $267.8 million. During 1998
the operating income of the Company's  telephone and wireless segments increased
$160.4  million  (92.6%)  and $42.5  million  (48.2%),  respectively,  while the
operating  income of the  Company's  other  operations  increased  $9.1  million
(142.4%). The Company's operating income for 1996 was $223.3 million.

   Contributions  to operating  revenues and  operating  income by the Company's
telephone, wireless and other operations for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1998 were as follows:



   As  indicated by the chart  above,  the  percentage  of the  Company's  total
operating revenues and operating income contributed by its telephone  operations
significantly  increased during 1998 as a result of the Company's acquisition of
PTI on December 1, 1997.

   In addition to historical  information,  management's discussion and analysis
includes  certain  forward-looking  statements  regarding  events and  financial
trends that may affect the  Company's  future  operating  results and  financial
position.  Such  forward-looking  statements are subject to  uncertainties  that
could  cause  the  Company's  actual  results  to  differ  materially  from such
statements.  Such  uncertainties  include but are not limited to: the effects of
ongoing deregulation in the telecommunications  industry; the effects of greater
than anticipated  competition in the Company's markets;  possible changes in the
demand  for the  Company's  products  and  services;  the  Company's  ability to
successfully  introduce new offerings on a timely and cost-effective  basis; the
risks  inherent  in  rapid  technological   change;  the  Company's  ability  to
effectively manage its growth, including integrating  newly-acquired  properties
into the  Company's  operations;  the  success  and  expense of the  remediation
efforts of the Company and its vendors in achieving  year 2000  compliance;  and
the  effects of more  general  factors  such as  changes  in  general  market or
economic  conditions or in legislation,  regulation or public policy.  These and
other  uncertainties  related to the business are described in greater detail in
Item 1 to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December
31, 1998. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements,  which speak only as of the date hereof.  The Company  undertakes no
obligation to update any of its forward-looking statements for any reason.


TELEPHONE OPERATIONS

   The Company  conducts its telephone  operations in rural,  suburban and small
urban  communities in 21 states.  As of December 31, 1998,  approximately 86% of
the Company's 1.3 million telephone access lines were in Wisconsin,  Washington,
Alaska, Michigan, Louisiana,  Colorado, Ohio, Oregon and Montana. In August 1998
the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell all of its operations in
Alaska.  This transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 1999. As
of December  31, 1998,  the Company had  approximately  132,000  access lines in
Alaska. The operating  revenues,  expenses and income of the Company's telephone
operations for 1998, 1997 and 1996 are summarized below.



Local service revenues

   Local  service  revenues  are derived from the  provision  of local  exchange
telephone  services in the Company's  service areas. The $184.1 million (124.8%)
increase  in such  revenues  in  1998  included  $171.0  million  from  acquired
properties,  of which $169.2 million was from the PTI properties;  $10.7 million
due to the internal  increase in the number of customer  access lines;  and $3.0
million due to the increased  provision of custom  calling  features.  The $25.9
million  increase in revenues  in 1997  included  $17.4  million  from  acquired
properties, of which $15.0 million was from the PTI properties; $5.6 million due
to the  internal  increase  in the number of  customer  access  lines;  and $2.8
million due to the  increased  provision of custom  calling  features.  Internal
access  line  growth  during  1998,  1997  and  1996 was  4.7%,  4.4% and  4.3%,
respectively.

Network access revenues

   Network access  revenues are primarily  derived from charges to long distance
companies and other customers for access to the Company's local exchange carrier
("LEC")  networks in connection  with the completion of long distance  telephone
calls.  These access  charges are based on tariffed  access rates filed with the
Federal  Communications  Commission ("FCC") for interstate services and with the
respective  state  regulatory  agency for  intrastate  services.  Certain of the
Company's  interstate  network access revenues are based on access charges filed
directly  with the FCC; the remainder of such revenues are derived under revenue
sharing  arrangements  with other LECs  administered  by the  National  Exchange
Carrier  Association.  Intrastate  network  access  revenues are based on access
charges or are derived under revenue sharing arrangements with other LECs.

   Network access  revenues  increased  $310.3 million (97.2%) in 1998 and $43.2
million in 1997 due to the following factors:



   Included in "Other, net" for 1998 and 1997 were decreases of $1.8 million and
$3.8  million,  respectively,  in  access  revenues  due  to the  reductions  in
intrastate  switched  access  rates  mandated by the  Louisiana  Public  Service
Commission ("LPSC") which were phased in from July 1995 through July 1997.

Other revenues

   Other revenues include revenues related to (i) leasing, selling,  installing,
maintaining  and repairing  customer  premise  telecommunications  equipment and
wiring ("CPE services"), (ii) providing billing and collection services for long
distance carriers,  (iii)  participating in the publication of local directories
and (iv)  providing  Internet  access.  Acquisitions  contributed  $60.7 million
(which includes $60.3 million  related to PTI) to the $66.6 million  increase in
other revenues in 1998.  Exclusive of acquisitions,  revenues from the provision
of Internet  access and CPE services  increased  $3.9 million and $3.5  million,
respectively,  in 1998. Other revenues increased $10.0 million in 1997, of which
$4.6 million was attributable to the PTI acquisition. Revenues from CPE services
and the provision of Internet access  contributed $3.5 million and $2.5 million,
respectively, of the remainder of the increase in other revenues in 1997.

Operating expenses

   Plant  operations  expenses  during 1998 and 1997  increased  $134.9  million
(122.4%) and $20.1 million (22.4%),  respectively.  Expenses incurred by the PTI
and former Ameritech operations in 1998 accounted for $120.4 million of the 1998
increase. The remainder of the increase in 1998 was primarily due to an increase
in  salaries  and  benefits.  Expenses  incurred by the PTI  operations  in 1997
accounted for $12.0  million of the 1997  increase.  Exclusive of PTI,  expenses
incurred in  connection  with  providing  Internet  access to a larger number of
customers  contributed $3.5 million to the 1997 increase and other  acquisitions
accounted for $1.8 million of such increase.

   Customer  operations,  corporate and other expenses  increased $118.5 million
(90.2%) in 1998, of which $110.7 million was  applicable to the PTI  properties.
Exclusive of acquisitions,  the remainder of the 1998 increase was due to a $4.3
million  increase  in  salaries  and  benefits  and a $2.0  million  increase in
marketing  expenses.  Of the $20.9 million  increase in these  expenses in 1997,
$13.4  million was incurred by acquired  properties  (of which $11.2 million was
incurred by PTI).  Exclusive  of  acquisitions,  $1.7  million of the  remaining
increase in 1997  expenses  was due to an increase in marketing  expenses,  $1.6
million was due to higher  operating  taxes and $1.4 million was due to expenses
incurred in the increased provision of CPE services.

   Depreciation  and  amortization  increased  $147.2 million (127.2%) and $19.9
million (20.8%) in 1998 and 1997, respectively.  Approximately $136.6 million of
the 1998 increase was  applicable to acquiring and operating PTI (of which $27.9
million represented amortization of goodwill) and $1.3 million was applicable to
the  former  Ameritech  properties.  Approx-imately  $11.4  million  of the 1997
increase was  applicable  to acquiring  and operating PTI (of which $1.5 million
represented amortization of goodwill).  Exclusive of acquisitions,  depreciation
expense  included  nonrecurring  additional  depreciation  charges  approved  by
regulators in certain  jurisdictions  which  aggregated $6.2 million in 1998 and
$4.4 million in 1997. In addition,  the Company obtained increased  depreciation
rates in certain  jurisdictions  which  increased  depreciation  expense by $1.1
million  in  1998  and  $4.4  million  in  1997.  The  remaining   increases  in
depreciation  and  amortization  in 1998 and 1997 were due to  higher  levels of
plant in service.  The composite  depreciation rate for the Company's  regulated
telephone  properties,  including the additional  depreciation charges, was 6.9%
for 1998,  7.4% for 1997 and 7.5% for 1996. The  properties  acquired in the PTI
acquisition  historically have had a lower composite  depreciation rate than the
Company's incumbent properties.

Other

   For additional  information  regarding  certain matters that have impacted or
may impact the Company's telephone operations, see Regulation and Competition.

Cellular Operations and Income From Unconsolidated Cellular Entities


   The Company's  cellular  operations reflect 100% of the results of operations
of the cellular entities in which the Company has a majority ownership interest.
The minority  interest owners' share of the income of such entities is reflected
in the  Company's  Consolidated  Statements of Income as an expense in "Minority
interest." See Minority Interest for additional information. The Company's share
of  earnings  from the  cellular  entities  in which it has less than a majority
interest  is  accounted  for using the  equity  method and is  reflected  in the
Company's  Consolidated  Statements  of Income in  "Income  from  unconsolidated
cellular  entities."  See  Income  from  Unconsolidated  Cellular  Entities  for
additional information.

Cellular Operations

   All of the Company's cellular  customers are located in Michigan,  Louisiana,
Wisconsin,  Mississippi,  Texas,  Alaska and Arkansas.  The operating  revenues,
expenses and income of the Company's cellular operations for 1998, 1997 and 1996
are summarized below.


Operating revenues

   Service  revenues  include  monthly  service  fees for  providing  access and
airtime to  customers,  service fees for  providing  airtime to other  carriers'
customers roaming through the Company's service areas and toll revenue. Cellular
service  revenues during 1998 increased to $398.7 million from $302.2 million in
1997 and $246.0 million in 1996.

   Of the $96.5  million  increase  in  service  revenues  in 1998 and the $56.1
million  increase in 1997,  $76.1 million and $11.8 million,  respectively,  was
attributable  to  acquisitions  of  properties.   Excluding  acquisitions,   the
remainder  of  the  increases  in  cellular   service  revenues  were  primarily
attributable  to the  increases  in cellular  usage in the  Company's  incumbent
markets  due to  the  increased  demand  for  wireless  services.  Exclusive  of
acquisitions,  local and toll revenues increased $9.4 million (4.0%) in 1998 and
$34.9 million  (17.5%) in 1997 while roaming  revenues  increased  $10.9 million
(18.5%) in 1998 and $12.6 million (27.1%) in 1997.

   The following table further  illustrates the growth in the Company's cellular
customer base in its majority-owned markets:



   The average  monthly service  revenue per customer  (including  acquisitions)
declined  to $57  during  1998  from  $61 in 1997  and  $63 in  1996  due to the
continued  trend that a higher  percentage of new  subscribers  tend to be lower
usage  customers  and to a  reduction  in rates.  In  addition,  the  properties
acquired in the PTI  acquisition  historically  have had a lower average monthly
service  revenue per  customer  than the  Company's  incumbent  properties.  The
average  monthly  service revenue per customer may further decline (i) as market
penetration  increases and  additional  lower usage  customers are activated and
(ii) as competitive  pressures from current and future  wireless  communications
providers intensify. The Company is responding to such competitive pressures by,
among  other  things,  modifying  certain  of its price  plans and  implementing
certain other plans and  promotions,  all of which are likely to result in lower
average  revenue per  customer.  The Company will  continue to focus on customer
service and attempt to stimulate cellular usage by promoting the availability of
certain  enhanced  services and by improving the quality of its service  through
the construction of additional cell sites and other enhancements to its system.

Operating expenses

   System operations  expenses increased $12.3 million (26.0%) in 1998 primarily
due to $15.6 million of expenses attributable to acquisitions. Such increase was
partially  offset by a $6.1  million  decrease in the net amounts  paid to other
carriers for cellular  service  provided to the Company's  customers who roam in
the other  carriers'  service areas  primarily  due to a decrease in rates.  The
$11.3 million (31.0%) increase in system operations  expenses in 1997 included a
$4.7  million  increase in the net amounts  paid to other  carriers for cellular
service  provided to the  Company's  customers  who roam in the other  carriers'
service areas and $2.8 million of expenses incurred by acquired properties.  The
remainder  of the  increase  in  system  operations  expenses  in 1997  resulted
primarily from the operation of more cell sites.

   The Company operated 615 cell sites at December 31, 1998 in entities in 
which it had a majority interest, compared to 558 at December 31, 1997 and 354
at December 31,1996. In 1997, 155 cell sites were added through acquisitions.

   General, administrative and customer service expenses increased $18.6 million
(29.8%) in 1998, of which $13.4 million was attributable to expenses of entities
acquired. The remainder of the 1998 increase was primarily due to a $2.1 million
increase in the provision for doubtful  accounts and a $1.8 million  increase in
customer  service  expenses.  Of the  $9.4  million  (17.7%)  increase  in  1997
expenses,  $3.0 million was applicable to acquired operations.  The remainder of
the increase in 1997 was  primarily  due to a $2.4 million  increase in customer
service and retention costs and a $2.4 million increase in billing costs.

   Churn rate (the percentage of cellular  customers that terminate  service) is
an industry-wide  concern. The Company faces substantial  competition from other
wireless  providers,   including  Personal  Communication  Services  ("PCS").  A
significant portion of the churn in the Company's cellular markets is due to the
Company disconnecting service to customers for nonpayment. The Company's average
monthly churn rate was 2.23% in 1998, 2.31% in 1997 and 2.37% in 1996.

   Sales and marketing  expenses increased $3.3 million (6.2%) in 1998 primarily
due to $9.7 million of expenses of acquired entities, a $2.9 million increase in
costs incurred in selling  products and services in retail  locations and a $2.4
million  increase in advertising  expenses.  Such  increases were  substantially
offset by a $10.6 million  reduction in  commissions  paid to agents for selling
services to new customers  primarily as a result of fewer  cellular  units being
added through this  distribution  channel  during 1998 as compared to 1997.  The
1997 increase in sales and marketing expenses of $7.3 million (15.7%) included a
$4.9  million  increase in costs  incurred in selling  products  and services in
retail locations and a $2.8 million increase applicable to operations acquired.

   Depreciation  and  amortization  increased  $20.9 million (50.8%) in 1998 and
$7.6 million in 1997, of which $14.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively, was
attributable to acquisitions.  The remainder of the 1998 and 1997 increases were
primarily due to higher levels of plant in service.

Other

   For additional  information  regarding  certain matters that have impacted or
may impact the Company's cellular operations, see Regulation and Competition.

Other Operations

   Other  operations  include the results of operations of  subsidiaries  of the
Company which are not included in the telephone or cellular segments  including,
but not limited to, the  Company's  non-regulated  long distance and call center
operations and the Company's  competitive  access  subsidiary (which was sold to
Brooks Fiber Properties,  Inc.  ("Brooks") in May 1997). The operating revenues,
expenses and income of the Company's  other  operations for 1998,  1997 and 1996
are summarized below.



   The 1998 and 1997 increases of $16.5 million and $7.7 million,  respectively,
in long  distance  revenues  were  attributable  to the  growth in the number of
customers.  The number of long distance  customers as of December 31, 1998, 1997
and 1996 was  226,700,  172,000  and  110,600,  respectively.  The $4.6  million
decrease in 1998 call center revenues was primarily due to the loss of two major
customers  in the fourth  quarter of 1997.  The $5.5  million  increase  in call
center  revenues in 1997 was primarily due to an increase in customers  prior to
the  loss of the two  major  customers  in late  1997.  The  increases  in other
revenues  of $5.2  million  in 1998  and  $2.4  million  in 1997  was  primarily
attributable  to the  acquisition  of  cable  television  properties  in the PTI
acquisition and the acquisition of two security businesses.

   Operating  expenses in 1998 increased due to (i) an increase of $13.6 million
in expenses of the  Company's  long  distance  operations  due  primarily  to an
increase in customers and (ii) $6.6 million of operating expenses  applicable to
acquisitions. Such increases were substantially offset by decreases in operating
expenses  because (i) 1997 included $9.2 million of costs applicable to entities
sold  during  1997 and (ii) the amount of  intercompany  profit  with  regulated
affiliates (the  recognition of which in accordance  with regulatory  accounting
principles acts to offset operating expenses) increased $5.8 million as a result
of the acquisition of PTI.

   In 1997 an increase in operating  expenses of $11.7  million  incurred by the
long distance and call center  operations was partially  offset by a decrease of
$4.1 million in operating expenses incurred by the Company's  competitive access
subsidiary.

   Certain  of  the   Company's   service   subsidiaries   provide   managerial,
operational,  technical  and  accounting  services,  along  with  materials  and
supplies, to the Company's telephone subsidiaries. In accordance with regulatory
accounting,  intercompany  profit on transactions with regulated  affiliates has
not been eliminated in connection with  consolidating  the results of operations
of the Company.  When the regulated  operations of the Company no longer qualify
for the application of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 ("SFAS
71"),  "Accounting  for the  Effects  of  Certain  Types  of  Regulation,"  such
intercompany profit will be eliminated in subsequent financial  statements,  the
primary result of which will be a decrease in operating  expenses  applicable to
the  Company's  telephone  operations  and an  increase  in  operating  expenses
applicable to the Company's other operations segment. The amount of intercompany
profit with regulated  affiliates  which was not  eliminated  was  approximately
$14.4  million,   $8.9  million  and  $7.7  million  in  1998,  1997  and  1996,
respectively.  For additional  information applicable to SFAS 71, see Regulation
and Competition - Other Matters.

Gain on Sale or Exchange of Assets, Net

   In 1998 the Company  recorded net pre-tax  gains  aggregating  $49.9  million
($30.5  million  after-tax;  $.22  per  diluted  share)  primarily  due  to  the
conversion of its  investment in the common stock of Brooks into common stock of
MCIWorldCom,  Inc.  ("WorldCom"),  the  subsequent  sale of  750,000  shares  of
WorldCom stock, and the sale of minority interests in two non-strategic cellular
entities.  See  Note  14 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for
additional information.

   In the second  quarter  of 1997,  the  Company  sold its  competitive  access
subsidiary to Brooks in exchange for approximately 4.3 million shares of Brooks'
common  stock and  recorded a pre-tax  gain of  approximately  $71 million  ($46
million  after-tax;  $.34 per diluted share).  In November 1997 the Company sold
approximately 3.8 million shares of Brooks' stock and recorded a pre-tax gain of
approximately $108 million ($66 million after-tax; $.48 per diluted share).

Interest Expense

   Interest  expense  increased  $111.1  million in 1998  primarily due to $89.7
million of  interest  expense  on the  borrowings  used to  finance  the PTI and
Ameritech acquisitions and $23.2 million of interest expense applicable to PTI's
debt.

   Interest  expense  increased  $11.8  million  in 1997  primarily  due to $7.2
million  of  interest  expense  on  the  borrowings  used  to  finance  the  PTI
acquisition and $3.5 million of interest expense applicable to PTI's debt.

Income From Unconsolidated Cellular Entities

   Earnings from  unconsolidated  cellular entities,  net of the amortization of
associated  goodwill,  increased  $5.1 million  (18.3%) in 1998 primarily due to
$7.3 million of earnings of unconsolidated cellular entities acquired in the PTI
acquisition.  Such increase was partially  offset by a $2.5 million decrease due
to the sale of the Company's  minority  interests in two non-strategic  cellular
entities during the second quarter of 1998.

   The improvement in profitability in 1997 of most of the cellular  entities in
which the Company owns less than a majority interest was substantially offset by
a $2.4 million decrease in the Company's portion of the profits of a partnership
in which the Company has a significant ownership interest.

Minority Interest

   Minority  interest  is the  expense  recorded  by the  Company to reflect the
minority interest owners' share of the earnings of the Company's  majority-owned
and operated  cellular  entities and  majority-owned  subsidiaries.  Of the $7.3
million increase in minority  interest in 1998, $2.0 million was associated with
entities  acquired in the PTI  acquisition.  The  remainder  of the increase was
primarily due to the increased profitability of the Company's majority-owned and
operated cellular entities.

   The  decrease  in minority  interest  in 1997 of $1.2  million was due to the
effect of the Company's  acquisition,  during the second  quarter of 1996, of an
additional 25% interest in a Louisiana cellular  partnership which decreased the
minority interest percentage of such partnership.

Income Tax Expense

   The Company's  effective income tax rate was 41.0%,  37.3% and 36.6% in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.  Such increase in the effective income tax rate for
1998 was primarily due to the increase in non-deductible  amortization of excess
cost of net assets acquired (goodwill) attributable to the PTI acquisition.

Acquisitions

   On  December  1,  1998,  the  Company  acquired  the  assets  of  certain  of
Ameritech's  telephone  operations and the related  telephone  directories in 19
telephone  exchanges  covering 21 communities in northern and central  Wisconsin
for  approximately  $221 million cash.  The  operations  acquired by the Company
include  the  telephone   property  and  equipment  that  serves  nearly  69,000
customers,  or  approximately  86,000 access lines,  as well as the related nine
telephone   directories.   The  Company  provided  initial  financing  for  this
acquisition  through its committed credit facilities and will ultimately finance
this transaction with proceeds from the sale of the Company's Alaska operations,
which the Company  expects to close  during the second  quarter of 1999 for $415
million cash, subject to various adjustments.

   On December 1, 1997, the Company  acquired PTI in exchange for $1.503 billion
cash. To finance the acquisition,  the Company borrowed $1.288 billion under its
committed  credit  facility and paid the  remainder  of the purchase  price with
available  cash,  most of which consisted of the proceeds of the sale of Brooks'
common stock in November 1997.  See Liquidity and Capital  Resources - Financing
Activities  for  additional  information.  As a result of the  acquisition,  the
Company  acquired  (i) over  660,000  telephone  access  lines  located  in four
midwestern  states,  seven western states and Alaska,  (ii) over 88,000 cellular
subscribers  in two  midwestern  states and Alaska and (iii)  various  wireless,
cable television and other  communications  assets. For additional  information,
see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Accounting Pronouncements

   In June  1997  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  ("FASB")  issued
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 130 ("SFAS  130"),  "Reporting
Comprehensive  Income" and Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 131
("SFAS  131"),   "Disclosures  About  Segments  of  an  Enterprise  and  Related
Information."  SFAS 130  established  standards for reporting the  components of
comprehensive income, which is defined to include all changes in equity during a
period  except  those  resulting  from  investments  by  and   distributions  to
shareholders.  SFAS 131 established  standards for reporting  information  about
operating segments in annual financial  statements and interim financial reports
to  shareholders.  The Company  adopted both  statements in the first quarter of
1998.

   In February 1998 the FASB issued Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards
No.  132,  "Employers'  Disclosures  About  Pensions  and  Other  Postretirement
Benefits," which standardizes the disclosure requirements for pensions and other
postretirement benefits.

   In March 1998 the Accounting  Standards  Executive Committee issued Statement
of Position 98-1 ("SOP 98-1"),  "Accounting  for the Costs of Computer  Software
Developed or Obtained for Internal  Use." SOP 98-1  requires  that certain costs
related to the development or purchase of  internal-use  software be capitalized
and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software.  The impact of SOP
98-1 on the Company's results of operations is not expected to be material.  SOP
98-1 is effective for  financial  statements  issued for fiscal years  beginning
after December 15, 1998.

   In June 1998 the FASB issued Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No.
133  ("SFAS  133"),   "Accounting   for  Derivative   Instruments   and  Hedging
Activities."  SFAS  133  established  accounting  and  reporting  standards  for
derivative  instruments  and for hedging  activities by requiring  that entities
recognize all  derivatives  as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the
balance sheet.  Based on the Company's  current use of derivatives,  SFAS 133 is
not expected to materially impact the Company's financial position or results of
operations.

Inflation

   The  effects of  increased  costs  historically  have been  mitigated  by the
ability to recover certain costs applicable to the Company's regulated telephone
operations  through  the  rate-making  process.  As  operating  expenses  in the
Company's nonregulated lines of business increase as a result of inflation,  the
Company,  to  the  extent  permitted  by  competition,  recovers  the  costs  by
increasing prices for its services and equipment.  While the rate-making process
does not permit the Company to  immediately  recover the costs of replacing  its
physical plant, the Company has historically  been able to recapture these costs
over time. Possible future regulatory changes may alter the Company's ability to
recover increased costs in its regulated operations.  For additional information
regarding the current regulatory environment, see Regulation and Competition.

Market Risk

   The Company is not exposed to material future earnings or cash flow exposures
from changes in interest rates on long-term debt obligations  since the majority
of the Company's long-debt obligations are fixed rate. At December 31, 1998, the
fair value of the  Company's  long-term  debt was  estimated  to be $2.7 billion
based on the overall  weighted  average rate of the Company's  long-term debt of
6.6% and an overall  weighted  maturity of 14 years  compared to terms and rates
currently available in long-term financing markets.  Market risk is estimated as
the potential  decrease in fair value of the Company's  long-term debt resulting
from a  hypothetical  increase of 66 basis points in interest rates (ten percent
of the Company's  overall weighted average  borrowing rate). Such an increase in
interest rates would result in  approximately a $115.3 million  decrease in fair
value of the  Company's  long-term  debt.  In early  1998 the  Company  utilized
interest  rate hedge  contracts to manage its interest  rate risk related to the
issuance  of $765.0  million of senior  notes and  debentures.  During  1998 the
Company did not enter into any derivative financial instruments and is currently
not evaluating the future use of such financial instruments.

Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure

   The Year 2000 issue  concerns the  inability of computer  systems and certain
other  equipment  to properly  recognize  and process  data that uses two digits
rather than four to designate particular years. The Company has initiated a Year
2000 Project  Plan ("the Plan") to assess  whether its systems that process date
sensitive  information  will  perform  satisfactorily  leading  up to and beyond
January 1, 2000.  The goal of the Plan is to correct,  prior to January 1, 2000,
any Year 2000-related  problem with critical systems, the failure of which could
have a material  adverse effect on the Company's  operations.  The Plan includes
steps to (i) identify  each  critical  system  element that  requires  date code
remediation,  (ii) establish a plan to remediate such systems,  (iii)  implement
all required remediations and (iv) selectively test the remediated systems.

   Thus far, the  identification  phase has  identified  Year 2000 issues in the
following  critical   Company-owned  systems:  (i)  switching  and  transmission
hardware and software used by the Company to route and deliver  telephone calls;
(ii) network  support  systems,  including  customer  service  systems and (iii)
billing and  collection  systems used by the Company to invoice and process most
of its  customer  payments.  In  addition,  the  Company (i)  receives  critical
services from providers of utilities and other services to facilities that house
employees and switching,  transmission and other equipment and (ii) is dependent
upon outside vendors for, among other things,  the provision of critical network
components and cellular billing services. The Company is also critically reliant
upon the systems of other  telecommunications  carriers with which the Company's
systems  interconnect  for the routing  and  delivery of  telephone  calls.  The
Company has also identified  potential Year 2000-related  liability with respect
to telephone equipment manufactured by unaffiliated parties that the Company has
sold or leased to its customers  ("Customer  Premises  Equipment" or "CPE"). The
identification  and planning phases of the Plan are materially  complete as they
relate to Company-owned  systems.  As they relate to third party vendors,  other
telecommunications  carriers and CPE customers,  the identification and planning
phases are on-going and are expected to be materially  complete by first quarter
1999.

   Based on work completed under the Plan to date, the Company currently intends
to  take  the  following  additional  steps  under  its  Plan  with  respect  to
Company-owned systems,  third-party vendors, other telecommunications  carriers,
and CPE customers:

o    The Company generally plans to remediate Company-owned switching, 
     transmission, billing and collection and other critical systems through the
     revision or replacement of current system components. Necessary changes to
     Company-owned systems are in process and are expected to be completed by 
     mid-year 1999.  The selective testing and verification of such changes are
     expected to be completed during 1999.  Due to the large number of system 
     components requiring remediation, the Company does not intend to test every
     remediated system but will rely upon the results of selective testing to
     determine the effectiveness of remediation efforts.

o    With respect to critical  services  provided by  utilities  and other third
     parties,  the Company has contacted all such  suppliers  during 1998.  Thus
     far, a majority of those  suppliers who have  responded have indicated that
     their systems and service  delivery  mechanisms  are Year 2000 compliant or
     can be made so through currently available modifications. The Company plans
     to continue  monitoring  all  third-party  remediation  efforts and to make
     contingency plans for the delivery of such services as necessary.

o    The Year 2000 compliance status of other  telecommunications  carriers with
     which the Company's  switching  systems  interconnect is not yet known. The
     Company  is  making  inquiries  with  these  carriers  to  determine  their
     compliance  status and  expects to obtain the results of  compliance  tests
     during first quarter 1999, although there can be no assurance that carriers
     will supply this information.

o    Finally,  the Company is in the process of obtaining  Year 2000  compliance
     information from CPE manufacturers and plans to provide this information to
     the Company's  business  customers in early 1999. The Company plans to work
     with CPE  manufacturers  to encourage the  development of remedies for Year
     2000 problems in such equipment and to continue  working with its customers
     to identify Year 2000 problems in CPE.  However,  there can be no assurance
     that CPE  manufacturers  or customers  will  cooperate  with the  Company's
     efforts to address these problems.

   While the Company  currently  believes  that it will be able to remediate and
selectively  test  Company-owned  systems in time to  minimize  any  detrimental
effect on its  operations,  there can be no  assurance  that such  steps will be
successful.  Failure  by the  Company to timely and  effectively  remediate  its
systems,   or  the  failure  of  critical   vendors  and   suppliers  and  other
telecommunications carriers to remediate affected systems, could have a material
adverse  impact on the  Company's  business,  financial  condition,  results  of
operations and prospects.  Because the impact of Year 2000 issues on the Company
is  materially  dependent  on the  mitigation  efforts  of parties  outside  the
Company's control, the Company cannot assess with certainty the magnitude of any
such  potential  adverse  impact.  However,  based  upon  risk  assessment  work
conducted thus far, the Company  believes that the most reasonably  likely worst
case   scenario  of  the  failure  by  the  Company,   its  suppliers  or  other
telecommunications carriers with which the Company interconnects to resolve Year
2000   issues   would  be  an   inability   by  the   Company   (i)  to  provide
telecommunications  services  to the  Company's  customers,  (ii) to  route  and
deliver   telephone   calls   originating   from  or   terminating   with  other
telecommunications  carriers,  (iii) to timely and  accurately  process  service
requests and (iv) to timely and accurately  bill its  customers.  In addition to
lost  earnings,  these  failures  could also result in loss of customers  due to
service  interruptions and billing errors,  substantial  claims by customers and
increased  expenses   associated  with  stabilizing   operations  and  executing
mitigation plans.

   Contingency  planning to maintain and restore service in the event of natural
disasters,  power failures and systems-related problems is a routine part of the
Company's  operations.  The Company  believes that such  contingency  plans will
assist the Company in responding to the failure by outside service  providers to
successfully  address  Year 2000 issues.  In addition,  the Company is currently
identifying  and  considering  various  Year  2000-specific  contingency  plans,
including  identification  of alternate vendors and service providers and manual
alternatives to system operations.  These Year  2000-specific  contingency plans
are expected to be materially  completed  during the first quarter of 1999,  but
their review and development will continue during 1999.

   Although the total costs to implement the Plan cannot be precisely estimated,
the  Company  incurred  costs of $4.2  million  during  1998  (none of which was
related  to  hardware   costs)  and   anticipates   spending  an   aggregate  of
approximately  $32.1  million  during  1999  (which  includes  $20.9  million of
hardware  costs.)  These costs will be expensed as incurred,  unless new systems
are purchased that should be capitalized in accordance  with generally  accepted
accounting principles. Some of the costs represent ongoing investment in systems
upgrades,  the timing of which is being  accelerated in order to facilitate Year
2000 compliance.  In some instances,  such upgrades will position the Company to
provide more and  better-quality  services to its customers  than they currently
receive.  The  Company  expects  to fund  these  costs  with  cash  provided  by
operations. Cost estimates and statements of the Company's plans discussed above
are  forward-looking  statements that are derived using numerous  assumptions of
future events,  many of which are outside the Company's  control,  including the
availability  and future cost of trained  personnel and various other resources,
third party  modification  plans, the absence of systems  requiring  remediation
that have not yet been discovered, and other factors.


                         LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

   Excluding cash used for acquisitions,  the Company relies on cash provided by
operations  to  provide  substantially  all of its  cash  needs.  The  Company's
operations  have  historically  provided a stable  source of cash flow which has
helped the Company continue its long-term program of capital improvements.

Operating activities

   Net cash provided by operating activities was $467.8 million,  $297.3 million
and  $264.7  million  in  1998,  1997  and  1996,  respectively.  The  Company's
accompanying  consolidated  statements of cash flows identify major  differences
between net income and net cash  provided by  operating  activities  for each of
those years. For additional  information  relating to the telephone  operations,
cellular  operations  and  other  operations  of the  Company,  see  Results  of
Operations.

Investing activities

   Net cash used in investing activities was $375.6 million,  $1.503 billion and
$241.8 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  Cash used for acquisitions
was $225.6  million during 1998 compared to $1.544 billion during 1997 and $46.3
million  during 1996.  See Results of Operations -  Acquisitions  for additional
information.  Capital  expenditures  for 1998 were $233.2  million for telephone
operations,  $49.5  million  for  cellular  operations  and  $28.2  million  for
corporate and other operations.  Capital  expenditures during 1997 and 1996 were
$181.2  million  and $222.9  million,  respectively.  Proceeds  from the sale of
assets were $132.3 million in 1998 and $202.7 million in 1997.

Financing activities

   Net cash used in financing  activities in 1998 was $112.4  million.  Net cash
provided by financing activities was $1.223 billion during 1997, of which $1.288
billion  was  related  to the  acquisition  of PTI.  Net cash used in  financing
activities  was $23.0 million  during 1996. In December 1997 the Company filed a
shelf  registration  statement  with the United States  Securities  and Exchange
Commission  registering  $1.5  billion  of  senior  unsecured  debt  securities,
preferred stock, common stock and warrants,  under which the Company issued $665
million of senior debt  securities in January 1998  concurrent with the issuance
of the remaining $100 million of senior debt  securities  under its  predecessor
shelf  registration  statement.  The net proceeds of approximately  $758 million
were used to reduce the bank indebtedness  incurred by the Company in connection
with its  December  1997  acquisition  of PTI. In  addition,  the  Company  paid
approximately  $40  million  in 1998 to  settle  numerous  interest  rate  hedge
contracts that had been entered into in anticipation of these debt issuances.

   In December 1997 after giving consideration to the PTI acquisition,  Standard
& Poor's assigned  Century's  senior unsecured debt a rating of BBB+ and Moody's
reaffirmed its rating of Baa1.

Other

   Budgeted  capital  expenditures  for 1999 total $215  million  for  telephone
operations,  $70 million for cellular  operations  and $60 million for corporate
and other operations.  The Company anticipates that capital  expenditures in its
telephone  operations  will continue to include the  installation of fiber optic
cable and the  upgrading  of its  plant and  equipment,  including  its  digital
switches,  to provide enhanced  services.  Capital  expenditures in the cellular
operations  are expected to continue to focus on  constructing  additional  cell
sites (which will provide additional capacity and expanded areas where hand-held
cellular phones may be used) and providing digital service. Capital expenditures
for corporate and other  operations  include $20 million for construction of the
Company's  fiber network in Michigan and $15 million for continued  expansion of
the Company's PCS operations.

   In April 1998 the Company  acquired 32 Local Multipoint  Distribution  System
licenses in the FCC's A and B band  auctions for an  aggregate of $9.7  million.
The licenses  acquired  cover  geographic  areas with a combined  population  of
approximately 10.6 million. The Company has not finalized capital expenditure or
deployment plans for these systems.

   The Company  continually  evaluates the  possibility of acquiring  additional
telecommunications  operations and expects to continue its long-term strategy of
pursuing the acquisition of attractive communications properties in exchange for
cash,  securities or both. Over the past few years, the amount of communications
properties available to be purchased by the Company has increased substantially.
The  Company  may  require  additional  financing  in  connection  with any such
acquisitions.  Approximately  3.8  million  shares of Century  common  stock and
200,000 shares of Century  preferred stock remain  available for future issuance
in  connection  with  acquisitions   under  an  acquisition  shelf  registration
statement.

   As of December 31, 1998, the Company's  telephone  subsidiaries had available
for use $135.1  million of  commitments  for long-term  financing from the Rural
Utilities  Service and the Company had $332.6 million of undrawn  committed bank
lines of credit. The Company also has access to debt and equity capital markets,
including its shelf registration statement mentioned above.

   The  following  table  reflects the  Company's  debt to total  capitalization
percentage  and ratio of earnings to fixed charges as of and for the years ended
December 31:




                           REGULATION AND COMPETITION


   The  communications   industry  continues  to  undergo  various   fundamental
regulatory,  competitive  and  technological  changes  that make it difficult to
determine the form or degree of future regulation and competition  affecting the
Company's  telephone  and  cellular   operations.   These  changes  may  have  a
significant  impact on the future  financial  performance of all  communications
companies.

Events affecting the communications industry

   In 1996 the United States Congress enacted the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(the "1996 Act"),  which  obligates LECs to permit  competitors to  interconnect
their  facilities  to the LEC's network and to take various other steps that are
designed to promote  competition.  The 1996 Act provides certain  exemptions for
rural LECs such as those  operated by the  Company.  Under the FCC's August 1996
order implementing most of the 1996 Act's interconnection provisions, rural LECs
have the burden of proving the availability of these exemptions.

   Prior to and since  the  enactment  of the 1996 Act,  the FCC and a number of
state  legislative  and  regulatory  bodies  have  taken  steps to foster  local
exchange  competition.  Coincident with this recent  movement  toward  increased
competition  has been the gradual  reduction  of  regulatory  oversight of LECs.
These cumulative  changes have led to the continued growth of various  companies
providing services that compete with LECs' services.  Wireless services entities
are also expected to increasingly compete with LECs.

   The 1996 Act  authorized  the  establishment  of federal and state  universal
service funds to provide support to eligible telecommunications carriers. In May
1997 the FCC adopted an order on universal service, as mandated by the 1996 Act.
In the order, the FCC ruled that rural telephone  companies which are designated
eligible  telecommunications carriers will continue to receive universal service
funding.  Each of the Company's  LECs has been so  designated by its  respective
state  regulatory  agency.  As a result,  the  Company's  LECs will  continue to
receive payments under the federal support mechanisms  currently in effect until
the FCC adopts funding  support  mechanisms  based on  forward-looking  economic
costs, which it is required to do, but no earlier than January 2001.

   As part of its  universal  service  order,  the FCC  also  established  a new
program  in  January  1998  to  provide  up  to  $2.25   billion  of  discounted
telecommunications  services annually to schools and libraries. In addition, the
FCC   established   a  $400   million   annual   fund  to   provide   discounted
telecommunications  services for rural health care providers. All communications
carriers  providing  interstate   telecommunications   services,  including  the
Company's  LECs and its cellular and long distance  operations,  are required to
contribute  to these  programs.  The FCC has stated that LECs will recover their
funding  contributions  in their rates for  interstate  services.  The Company's
contribution  by its cellular and long distance  operations for 1998,  which was
passed on to its customers, was approximately $3.1 million.

   In an access  charge  reform order  adopted in May 1997,  the FCC changed its
system  of  interstate   access  charges  to  make  them   compatible  with  the
deregulatory  framework  established by the 1996 Act. Such changes are primarily
applicable  to  price-cap  companies.   The  Company's  telephone   subsidiaries
determine   interstate  revenues  under  rate  of  return  regulation  and  are,
therefore,  only minimally  impacted by the access charge reform order.  In July
1998 the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed  Rulemaking  to amend the access charge
rules for rate of return companies in a manner similar to that adopted for price
cap companies,  subject to reviewing whether differences exist between price cap
companies and rate of return  companies  that would require  different  rules in
order to achieve the goal of fostering an  efficient,  competitive  marketplace.
Comments  were filed with the FCC in August  1998;  the FCC has not yet issued a
final ruling on this matter.

   In 1998 the FCC created a federal-state joint board to review  jurisdictional
separations  procedures through which the costs of regulated  telecommunications
services are allocated to the interstate and intrastate jurisdictions.

   In recent  years the FCC has  allocated  additional  frequency  spectrum  for
wireless  technologies  that compete or are  expected to compete with  cellular,
including PCS and mobile satellite services. The FCC has also authorized certain
specialized  mobile radio service  licensees to operate in a manner  competitive
with cellular systems.

   In  September  1998  the  FCC  initiated  a  proceeding  to  represcribe  the
authorized rate of return for interstate  access services  provided by LECs. The
FCC  periodically  represcribes  this rate of return to ensure  that the service
rates filed by incumbent LECs subject to rate of return  regulation  continue to
be just and reasonable. It is uncertain whether or by how much the FCC may lower
the authorized rate of return.

   Competition to provide traditional telephone or wireless services is expected
to initially  affect large urban areas to a greater extent than rural,  suburban
and small  urban  areas  such as those in which  the  Company's  operations  are
located.  The Company does not believe such  competition is likely to materially
affect it in the near term.  The Company  further  believes  that it may benefit
from having the  opportunity  to observe the  effects of these  developments  in
large urban  markets.  The Company will continue to monitor  ongoing  changes in
regulation,  competition and technology and consider which developments  provide
the most favorable opportunities for the Company to pursue.

Recent events affecting the Company

   During 1998 the Company's revenues from the USF increased approximately $62.3
million (of which $58.8 million was applicable to the PTI  properties) to $127.6
million  after  increasing  $16.1  million  during  1997.  Although  the Company
anticipates  that it may experience a reduction in its federal support  revenues
at some point in the future,  management  believes it is  premature to assess or
estimate the ultimate impact thereof.  There can be no assurance,  however, that
such impact will not be material.

   During  the  last  few  years,  several  states  in  which  the  Company  has
substantial operations took legislative or regulatory steps to further introduce
competition  into the LEC  business.  While the  Company  is aware of only a few
companies which have requested  authorization  to provide local exchange service
in the Company's  service areas,  it is  anticipated  that similar action may be
taken by others in the future.

   In June 1997 the  Louisiana  Public  Service  Commission  ("LPSC")  adopted a
Consumer Price Protection Plan (the "Consumer Plan"), effective July 1997, which
froze the local rates and access rates that can be charged by the Company's LECs
operating in Louisiana.  Although the Consumer Plan has no specified  term,  the
LPSC is required to review it by mid-2000. The Company's Louisiana LECs have the
option  to  propose  a new  plan at any  time if the  LPSC  determines  that (i)
effective  competition  exists  or (ii)  unforeseen  events  threaten  the LEC's
ability to provide  adequate  service or impair its  financial  health.  Certain
other states have implemented various forms of alternative regulation plans, the
impact of which has not been material either individually or in the aggregate to
the results of operations of the Company.

   Certain long distance  carriers  continue to request that the Company  reduce
intrastate  access tariffed rates for certain of its LECs. There is no assurance
that these requests will not result in reduced intrastate access revenues in the
future.

   The Company anticipates that regulatory changes and competitive pressures may
result in future revenue reductions in its telephone  operations.  However,  the
Company  anticipates  that such  reductions  may be  minimized  by  increases in
revenues  attributable  to the  continued  demand for enhanced  services and new
product offerings.  While the Company expects its telephone revenues to continue
to grow, its internal  telephone  revenue  growth rate may slow during  upcoming
periods.

Other matters

   The Company's regulated telephone operations are subject to the provisions of
SFAS 71, under which the Company is required to account for the economic effects
of the rate-making  process,  including the recognition of depreciation of plant
and equipment over lives approved by regulators.  The ongoing  applicability  of
SFAS 71 to the Company's regulated  telephone  operations is being monitored due
to the changing regulatory,  competitive and legislative environments.  When the
regulated  operations of the Company no longer  qualify for the  application  of
SFAS 71, the net adjustments required will result in a material,  extraordinary,
noncash  charge  against  earnings.  While the amount of such  charge  cannot be
precisely  estimated  at  this  time,  management  believes  that  the  noncash,
after-tax,  extraordinary charge would be between $350 million and $400 million.
See  Note 12 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  additional
information.

   The Company has certain  obligations  based on federal,  state and local laws
relating to the protection of the environment.  Costs of compliance through 1998
have not been material,  and the Company currently has no reason to believe that
such costs will become material.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

    The  Company  is not  exposed  to  material  future  earnings  or cash  flow
exposures  from  changes in interest  rates on long-term  obligations  since the
majority of the Company's long-term  obligations are fixed rate. At December 31,
1998, the Company estimates that the fair value of the Company's  long-term debt
was $2.7 billion which was determined by comparing the overall  weighted average
rate of the Company's long-term debt of 6.6% and an overall weighted maturity of
14 years to terms and rates currently  available in long-term financing markets.
Market  risk  is  estimated  as the  potential  decrease  in fair  value  of the
Company's  long-term debt  resulting  from a  hypothetical  increase of 66 basis
points in interest rates (ten percent of the Company's  overall weighted average
borrowing   rate).   Such  an  increase  in  interest   rates  would  result  in
approximately a $115.3 million decrease in fair value of the Company's long-term
debt.  In late 1997 and early  1998 the  Company  utilized  interest  rate hedge
contracts to manage its interest  rate risk related to its January 1998 issuance
of $765.0  million of senior notes and  debentures.  During 1998 the Company did
not  enter  into  any  derivative  financial  instruments  and is not  currently
evaluating the future use of such financial instruments.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


                              Report of Management

The Shareholders
Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc.:

   Management  has prepared and is  responsible  for the Company's  consolidated
financial statements.  The consolidated  financial statements have been prepared
in accordance  with generally  accepted  accounting  principles and  necessarily
include  amounts   determined  using  our  best  judgments  and  estimates  with
consideration given to materiality.

   The Company  maintains  internal  control  systems and related  policies  and
procedures designed to provide reasonable  assurance that the accounting records
accurately  reflect  business  transactions  and  that the  transactions  are in
accordance with management's authorization.  The design, monitoring and revision
of the systems of internal  control  involve,  among other things,  our judgment
with respect to the  relative  cost and  expected  benefits of specific  control
measures.  Additionally,  the Company  maintains an internal  auditing  function
which independently  evaluates the effectiveness of internal controls,  policies
and procedures and formally reports on the adequacy and effectiveness thereof.

   The Company's  consolidated  financial  statements  have been audited by KPMG
LLP, independent certified public accountants,  who have expressed their opinion
with respect to the fairness of the  consolidated  financial  statements.  Their
audit was conducted in accordance with generally  accepted  auditing  standards,
which  includes the  consideration  of the  Company's  internal  controls to the
extent necessary to form an independent  opinion on the  consolidated  financial
statements prepared by management.

   The Audit  Committee of the Board of  Directors is composed of directors  who
are not officers or employees of the Company.  The Committee meets  periodically
with  the  independent  certified  public  accountants,  internal  auditors  and
management.  The  Committee  considers  the audit scope and  discusses  internal
control,  financial and reporting  matters.  Both the  independent  and internal
auditors have free access to the Committee.

/s/ R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.
- -------------------------
R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.
Senior Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer



                          Independent Auditors' Report


The Board of Directors
Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc.:

   We have audited the consolidated  financial  statements of Century  Telephone
Enterprises,  Inc. and subsidiaries as listed in Item 14a(i). In connection with
our audits of the consolidated  financial  statements,  we also have audited the
financial  statement  schedules as listed in Item  14a(ii).  These  consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of
the Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our
audits.

   We  conducted  our audits in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

   In our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the financial  position of Century
Telephone  Enterprises,  Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
and the results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year  period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity  with generally
accepted  accounting  principles.  Also in our  opinion,  the related  financial
statement  schedules,  when  considered  in relation  to the basic  consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects,
the information set forth therein.

/s/  KPMG LLP
- -------------
KPMG LLP

Shreveport, Louisiana
January 28, 1999, except as to Note 21 which is as of February 23, 1999


                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                        Consolidated Statements of Income



                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income





                       Century Telephone Enterprises, INC.
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets




                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows



                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity



                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1998


(1)   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of consolidation - The consolidated  financial  statements of Century
Telephone  Enterprises,  Inc. and its subsidiaries  (the "Company")  include the
accounts  of  Century   Telephone   Enterprises,   Inc.   ("Century")   and  its
majority-owned subsidiaries and partnerships.  The Company's regulated telephone
operations  are subject to the  provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 71,  "Accounting  for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."
Investments  in  cellular  entities  where the  Company  does not own a majority
interest are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.

Estimates - The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that  affect the  reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities  and
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates.

Revenue  recognition  - Revenues  are  recognized  when  earned.  Certain of the
Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  participate in revenue sharing  arrangements
with other telephone companies for interstate revenue and for certain intrastate
revenue.  Such sharing  arrangements  are funded by toll revenue  and/or  access
charges  within  state  jurisdictions  and by access  charges in the  interstate
market.  Revenues earned through the various sharing  arrangements are initially
recorded based on the Company's estimates.

Property,  plant and  equipment -  Telephone  plant is stated  substantially  at
original  cost.  Normal  retirements  of  telephone  plant are  charged  against
accumulated depreciation, along with the costs of removal, less salvage, with no
gain or loss  recognized.  Renewals and  betterments  of plant and equipment are
capitalized  while repairs,  as well as renewals of minor items,  are charged to
operating  expense.  Depreciation of telephone plant is provided on the straight
line  method,  using  class or overall  group  rates  acceptable  to  regulatory
authorities; such rates range from 1.8% to 25%.

Non-telephone  property is stated at cost and,  when sold or retired,  a gain or
loss is  recognized.  Depreciation  of such property is provided on the straight
line method over estimated service lives ranging from three to 30 years.

Impairment  of  long-lived  assets  and  excess  cost  of  net  assets  acquired
(goodwill)  - The  carrying  value of  long-lived  assets,  including  allocated
goodwill,  is reviewed for impairment at least  annually,  or whenever events or
changes  in  circumstances   indicate  that  such  carrying  value  may  not  be
recoverable,  by assessing the  recoverability  of such  carrying  value through
estimated  undiscounted  future net cash flows  expected to be  generated by the
assets or the  acquired  business.  The excess  cost of net assets  acquired  of
substantially  all of the Company's  acquisitions  accounted for as purchases is
being amortized over 40 years.

Affiliated  transactions  - Certain  service  subsidiaries  of  Century  provide
installation and maintenance services,  materials and supplies,  and managerial,
technical and accounting services to subsidiaries. In addition, Century provides
and bills  management  services to subsidiaries  and in certain  instances makes
interest  bearing  advances to finance  construction  of plant and  purchases of
equipment.   These   transactions  are  recorded  by  the  Company's   telephone
subsidiaries  at their cost to the extent  permitted by regulatory  authorities.
Intercompany  profit on transactions  with regulated  affiliates is limited to a
reasonable  return on investment and has not been  eliminated in connection with
consolidating  the  results  of  operations  of  Century  and its  subsidiaries.
Intercompany  profit  on  transactions  with  nonregulated  affiliates  has been
eliminated.

Income taxes - Century files a  consolidated  federal income tax return with its
eligible  subsidiaries.  The  Company  uses the  asset and  liability  method of
accounting for income taxes under which deferred tax assets and  liabilities are
established for the future tax consequences  attributable to differences between
the financial  statement  carrying  amounts of assets and  liabilities and their
respective  tax bases.  Investment tax credits  related to telephone  plant have
been  deferred  and are being  amortized  as a reduction  of federal  income tax
expense  over the  estimated  useful  lives  of the  assets  giving  rise to the
credits.

Derivative financial  instruments - During 1997 the Company entered into certain
interest  rate  hedge  contracts  in  anticipation  of a public  debt  issuance,
utilizing  such hedge  contracts to manage  interest  rate  exposure.  The hedge
contracts were treated as off-balance sheet financial instruments. In connection
with the settlement of these contracts, all losses related to these transactions
have been  deferred  and  amortized  as  interest  expense  over the life of the
underlying  debt  issuance.  Such contracts were settled in 1998. See Note 6 for
additional  information.  The  Company  does not  utilize  derivative  financial
instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.

Earnings  per share - During 1997 the Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards  No. 128 ("SFAS  128"),  "Earnings  per  Share."  SFAS 128
established  requirements  for the  computation  of basic earnings per share and
diluted earnings per share and was effective for financial statements issued for
periods  ending after  December 15, 1997.  Earnings per share  amounts for prior
periods have been restated to conform with SFAS 128.

Stock  compensation - The Company accounts for employee stock compensation plans
in accordance with Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees" as allowed by Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."

Cash equivalents - The Company considers short-term  investments with a maturity
at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

(2)   Acquisitions

   On  December 1, 1997,  Century  acquired  Pacific  Telecom,  Inc.  ("PTI") in
exchange  for  $1.503  billion  cash.  To  finance  the  acquisition,  which was
accounted  for as a purchase,  Century  borrowed  $1.288  billion under its $1.6
billion senior  unsecured  credit facility (the "Senior Credit  Facility") dated
August  28,  1997 with  NationsBank  of Texas,  N.A.  and a  syndicate  of other
lenders.  Century paid the remainder of the PTI acquisition price with available
cash.

   As a result of the  acquisition,  the Company  acquired (i) telephone  access
lines located in four midwestern states,  seven western states and Alaska,  (ii)
cellular  subscribers  in two  midwestern  states and  Alaska and (iii)  various
wireless, cable television and other communications assets.

   The following pro forma  information  represents the consolidated  results of
operations of the Company as if the PTI acquisition  had been  consummated as of
January 1, 1997 and 1996.



   The pro forma  information  is not  necessarily  indicative  of the operating
results that would have occurred if the PTI acquisition had been  consummated as
of January 1 of each  respective  period,  nor is it  necessarily  indicative of
future  operating  results.  The actual  results of  operations of PTI have been
included in the Company's  consolidated  financial statements only from the date
of acquisition.

   On  December  1, 1998,  the  Company  acquired  the  assets of certain  local
telephone  and directory  operations in parts of northern and central  Wisconsin
from  affiliates  of  Ameritech  Corporation  ("Ameritech"),   in  exchange  for
approximately  $221  million  cash.  The assets  included  (i) access  lines and
related  property  and  equipment  in  21  predominantly  rural  communities  in
Wisconsin and (ii) Ameritech's  directory  publishing  operations that relate to
nine telephone directories.

(3)   Investments and Other Assets

   Investments  and other assets at December 31, 1998 and 1997 were  composed of
the following:


   As a result of the purchase of PTI, the Company recorded  approximately  $1.2
billion of excess cost of net assets acquired in 1997.

   Goodwill  amortization of $47.8 million,  $16.6 million and $12.8 million for
1998,  1997  and  1996,   respectively,   is  included  in   "Depreciation   and
amortization" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income.

   Included in investments in  unconsolidated  cellular entities at December 31,
1997 was  approximately  $67.0  million  of costs  allocated  to  licenses  from
acquisitions   made  by  PTI  prior  to  Century's   acquisition  of  PTI.  Upon
finalization of the PTI purchase price  allocation,  such costs were assigned to
excess cost of net assets acquired.

   The Company's  investments in marketable  equity securities are classified as
available for sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized  holding gains
and losses  reported,  net of taxes,  as a separate  component of  stockholders'
equity. As of December 31, 1998, gross unrealized holding gains of the Company's
marketable equity securities were $11.1 million.

(4)   Property, Plant and Equipment

   Net property,  plant and equipment at December 31, 1998 and 1997 was composed
of the following:


   Depreciation expense was $280.5 million, $142.6 million and $118.9 million in
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The composite depreciation rate for telephone
properties was 6.9% for 1998, 7.4% for 1997 and 7.5% for 1996.

(5)   Investments in Unconsolidated Cellular Entities

   The Company's  share of earnings from cellular  entities in which it does not
own a majority  interest was $34.1  million,  $29.4 million and $28.2 million in
1998, 1997 and 1996,  respectively,  and is included,  net of $1.2 million, $1.6
million  and $1.3  million of  amortization  of  goodwill  attributable  to such
investments,  in "Income from unconsolidated cellular entities" in the Company's
Consolidated   Statements   of  Income.   Over  74%  of  the  1998  income  from
unconsolidated cellular entities was attributable to the following investments.


                                                             Ownership interest
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lafayette MSA Limited Partnership                                    49%
GTE Mobilnet of Austin Limited Partnership                           35%
Milwaukee SMSA Limited Partnership                                   18%
Alltel Cellular Associates of Arkansas Limited Partnership           36%
Detroit SMSA Limited Partnership                                      3%
Michigan RSA #9 Limited Partnership                                  43%
Cellular North Michigan Network General Partnership                  43%     
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   The following  summarizes  the unaudited  combined  assets,  liabilities  and
equity,  and the  unaudited  combined  results of  operations,  of the  cellular
entities in which the Company's  investments  (as of December 31, 1998 and 1997)
were accounted for by the equity method.




   At December 31, 1998, $59.0 million of the Company's consolidated  retained
earnings represented undistributed earnings of unconsolidated cellular entities.


(6)   Long-Term Debt


   The  approximate  annual debt  maturities  for the five years  subsequent  to
December 31, 1998 are as follows:  1999 - $53.0  million;  2000 - $62.6 million;
2001 - $144.5 million; 2002 - $735.0 million; and 2003 - $67.5 million.

   Short-term  borrowings of $40.0 million at December 31, 1998 were  classified
as long-term debt on the accompanying  balance sheet as the Company had adequate
committed amounts available under long-term revolving facilities.

   Certain of the Company's loan agreements contain various restrictions,  among
which are limitations  regarding  issuance of additional  debt,  payment of cash
dividends,  reacquisition of the Company's  capital stock and other matters.  At
December 31, 1998, all of the consolidated  retained  earnings  reflected on the
balance sheet was available for the declaration of dividends.

   The transfer of funds from certain  consolidated  subsidiaries  to Century is
restricted  by  various  loan  agreements.  Subsidiaries  which  have loans from
government agencies and cooperative lending  associations,  or have issued first
mortgage bonds,  generally may not loan or advance any funds to Century, but may
pay  dividends  if certain  financial  ratios are met.  At  December  31,  1998,
restricted  net  assets  of  subsidiaries  were  $604.4  million.  Subsidiaries'
retained  earnings in excess of amounts  restricted  by debt  covenants  totaled
$726.1 million.

   Most of the Company's telephone  property,  plant and equipment is pledged to
secure the long-term debt of subsidiaries.

   On January 15,  1998,  Century  issued $100  million of 7-year,  6.15% senior
notes  (Series E); $240 million of 10-year,  6.3% senior  notes  (Series F); and
$425  million  of  30-year,   6.875%  debentures  (Series  G)  under  its  shelf
registration  statements.   The  net  proceeds  of  approximately  $758  million
(excluding payment  obligations of approximately $40 million related to interest
rate hedging  effected in connection  with the offering) were used to reduce the
bank indebtedness  incurred under the Senior Credit Facility.  In addition,  the
Senior Credit Facility's  committed amount was reduced from $1.6 billion to $880
million in  accordance  with its terms.  This  facility  carries  floating  rate
interest based upon London InterBank Offered Rates for short-term periods.

   In  mid-January  1998  the  Company  settled  numerous  interest  rate  hedge
contracts that had been entered into in anticipation of the above-mentioned debt
issuances.  The  amounts  paid  by the  Company  upon  settlement  of the  hedge
contracts  aggregated  approximately  $40 million,  which is being  amortized as
interest  expense  over  the  lives  of the  underlying  debt  instruments.  The
effective weighted average interest rate of the debt (after giving consideration
to these  payment  obligations)  is  7.15%.  In  March  1998  the  Company  paid
approximately  $250,000 upon  settlement  of its  remaining  interest rate hedge
contracts.

   Century's  telephone   subsidiaries  had  approximately   $135.1  million  in
commitments for long-term  financing from the Rural Utilities  Service available
at December 31, 1998. Approximately $332.6 million of additional borrowings were
available to the Company through committed lines of credit with various banks.


(7)   Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities

   Deferred  credits and other  liabilities  at December  31, 1998 and 1997 were
composed of the following:



(8)   Postretirement Benefits

   The Company  sponsors  defined  benefit  health  care  plans  that  provide
postretirement benefits to substantially all retired full-time employees.

   Net periodic postretirement benefit cost for 1998, 1997 and 1996 included the
following components:



   The following is a  reconciliation  for the benefit  obligation  and the plan
assets.



   The  following  table sets forth the amounts  recognized as  liabilities  for
postretirement benefits at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.



   Assumptions used in accounting for postretirement benefits as of December 31,
1998 and 1997 were:

                                                       1998         1997      
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average assumptions
   Discount rate                                   6.5-6.75%         7.0
   Expected return on plan assets                      10.0%        10.0
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   For  measurement purposes, a 6.0-7.4% annual rate in the per capita cost of
covered  health  care  benefits  was  assumed  for 1999 and  beyond.  A
one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost rates would have the
following effects:
                                         1-Percentage          1-Percentage
                                        Point Increase        Point Decrease
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              (Dollars in thousands)

Effect on total of service and 
 interest cost components                $  1,012                   (934)
Effect on postretirement 
 benefit obligation                      $  9,884                 (9,089)   
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


(9)   Stockholders' Equity

Common stock - At December 31, 1998, unissued shares of Century common stock
were reserved as follows:

December 31,                                                      1998  
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             (In thousands)

Incentive compensation program                                   6,488
Acquisitions                                                     4,825
Employee stock purchase plan                                     1,016
Conversion of convertible preferred stock                          511
Other employee benefit plans                                     3,849  
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                16,689  
================================================================================

   Under  Century's  Articles  of  Incorporation  each  share  of  common  stock
beneficially  owned continuously by the same person since May 30, 1987 generally
entitles the holder thereof to ten votes per share. All other shares entitle the
holder to one vote per share.  At December 31, 1998, the holders of 12.6 million
shares of common stock were entitled to ten votes per share.

Preferred  stock - As of December  31, 1998,  Century had 2.0 million  shares of
preferred stock, $25 par value per share,  authorized.  At December 31, 1998 and
1997,  there were 324,238  shares of  outstanding  preferred  stock.  Holders of
outstanding   Century  preferred  stock  are  entitled  to  receive   cumulative
dividends, receive preferential distributions equal to $25 per share plus unpaid
dividends upon Century's liquidation and vote as a single class with the holders
of common stock.

Shareholders'  Rights Plan - In 1996 the Board of Directors  declared a dividend
of one preference share purchase right for each common share  outstanding.  Such
rights become  exercisable if and when a potential  acquiror takes certain steps
to acquire 15% or more of Century's common stock. Upon the occurrence of such an
acquisition,  each right held by  shareholders  other than the  acquiror  may be
exercised to receive  that number of shares of common stock or other  securities
of Century (or, in certain situations,  the acquiring company) which at the time
of such  transaction will have a market value of two times the exercise price of
the right.

Stock split - On February 25,  1998,  Century's  Board of  Directors  declared a
three-for-two common stock split effected as a 50% stock dividend in March 1998.
An amount equal to the par value of the additional common shares issued pursuant
to the stock split was  reflected as a transfer from  paid-in-capital  to common
stock  on the  consolidated  financial  statements  for  1997.  See  Note 21 for
additional information concerning a stock split in early 1999.

(10)  Earnings Per Share

   Basic  earnings per share amounts are determined on the basis of the weighted
average number of common shares  outstanding  during the year.  Diluted earnings
per  share  give  effect  to all  potential  dilutive  common  shares  that were
outstanding during the period.

   The following is a  reconciliation  of the numerators and denominators of the
basic and diluted earnings per share computations:



   The  weighted  average  number of options to purchase  shares of common stock
that were excluded from the  computation  of diluted  earnings per share because
the exercise  price of the option was greater  than the average  market price of
the common stock was 3,000,  1,099,000 and  1,415,000  for 1998,  1997 and 1996,
respectively.

(11)  Stock Option Program

   Century  has an  incentive  compensation  program  which  allows the Board of
Directors,  through  a  subcommittee  to the  Compensation  Committee,  to grant
incentives  to employees in any one or a  combination  of the  following  forms:
incentive and non-qualified stock options; stock appreciation rights; restricted
stock; and performance shares. As of December 31, 1998, Century had reserved 6.5
million  shares  of  common  stock  which  may be  issued  under  the  incentive
compensation program.

   Under the  program,  options have been granted to employees at a price either
equal to or  exceeding  the  then-current  market  price and all of the  options
expire ten years after the date of grant.

   During 1998 the Company  granted  121,667  options  (the "1998  Options")  at
market  price.  The weighted  average fair value of each of the 1998 Options was
estimated as of the date of grant to be $8.88 using an option-pricing model with
the following  assumptions:  dividend  yield - .5%;  expected  volatility - 20%;
risk-free interest rate - 4.8%; and expected option life - seven years.

   During 1997 the Company  granted  1,293,909  options (the "1997  Options") at
market  price.  The weighted  average fair value of each of the 1997 Options was
estimated as of the date of grant to be $5.68 using an option-pricing model with
the following  assumptions:  dividend  yield - .8%;  expected  volatility - 25%;
risk-free interest rate - 6.5%; and expected option life - eight years.

   Stock option transactions during 1998, 1997 and 1996 were as follows:



     The following tables summarize  certain  information  about Century's stock
options at December 31, 1998.




   The Company applies  Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees," in accounting for its program.  Accordingly,  no
compensation cost has been recognized for the program.  If compensation cost for
Century's  program had been  determined  consistent with SFAS 123, the Company's
net income and earnings  per share on a pro forma basis for 1998,  1997 and 1996
would have been as follows:




(12)  Accounting for the Effects of Regulation

   The Company's regulated telephone operations are subject to the provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 ("SFAS 71"),  "Accounting for
the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  Actions of a regulator can provide
reasonable assurance of the existence of an asset, reduce or eliminate the value
of an asset and impose a liability on a regulated  enterprise.  Such  regulatory
assets and liabilities are required to be recorded and,  accordingly,  reflected
in the balance sheet of an entity subject to SFAS 71.

   The  Company's  consolidated  balance  sheet as of December 31, 1998 included
regulatory  assets of approximately  $5.9 million and regulatory  liabilities of
approximately $16.0 million exclusive of (i) property, plant and equipment, (ii)
accumulated depreciation and (iii) deferred income taxes and deferred investment
tax credits associated with regulatory assets and liabilities.  The $5.9 million
of  regulatory   assets   included   assets   established  in  connection   with
postretirement benefits ($1.0 million), income taxes ($2.1 million) and deferred
financing costs ($2.7 million).  The $16.0 million of regulatory liabilities was
established in connection with the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 109, "Accounting For Income Taxes." Net deferred income tax assets
related to the  regulatory  assets and  liabilities  quantified  above were $3.5
million.

   Property, plant and equipment of the Company's regulated telephone operations
has been  depreciated  using  generally  the  straight  line  method  over lives
approved by  regulators.  Such  depreciable  lives have  generally  exceeded the
depreciable lives used by nonregulated entities. In addition, in accordance with
regulatory  accounting,  retirements of regulated  telephone  property have been
charged  to  accumulated  depreciation,  along with the costs of  removal,  less
salvage,  with no  gain  or loss  recognized.  These  accounting  policies  have
resulted  in  accumulated  depreciation  being  significantly  less  than if the
Company's telephone operations had not been regulated.

   Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 101 ("SFAS 101"),  "Regulated
Enterprises - Accounting for the Discontinuance of Application of FASB Statement
No. 71," specifies the accounting required when an enterprise ceases to meet the
criteria for  application  of SFAS 71. SFAS 101 requires the  elimination of the
effects of any actions of  regulators  that have been  recognized  as assets and
liabilities  in  accordance  with SFAS 71 but would not have been  recognized as
assets and  liabilities by  enterprises in general,  along with an adjustment of
certain  accumulated  depreciation  accounts to reflect the  difference  between
recorded  depreciation  and the  amount of  depreciation  that  would  have been
recorded  had the  Company's  telephone  operations  not  been  subject  to rate
regulation.  SFAS 101 further  provides  that the carrying  amounts of property,
plant and  equipment  are to be  adjusted  only to the  extent  the  assets  are
impaired  and  that  impairment  shall  be  judged  in the  same  manner  as for
enterprises in general.  Deferred tax  liabilities  and deferred  investment tax
credits will be impacted  based on the change in the temporary  differences  for
property, plant and equipment and accumulated depreciation.

   The ongoing  applicability  of SFAS 71 to the Company's  regulated  telephone
operations is being  monitored due to the changing  regulatory,  competitive and
legislative  environments,  and  it is  possible  that  changes  in  regulation,
legislation or  competition or in the demand for regulated  services or products
could result in the  Company's  telephone  operations no longer being subject to
SFAS 71 in the near  future.  When the  regulated  operations  of the Company no
longer qualify for the application of SFAS 71, the net adjustments required will
result in a material,  noncash charge against earnings which will be reported as
an  extraordinary  item.  While the  effect of  implementing  SFAS 101 cannot be
precisely  estimated  at  this  time,  management  believes  that  the  noncash,
after-tax,  extraordinary charge would be between $350 million and $400 million.
For regulatory purposes, the accounting and reporting of the Company's telephone
subsidiaries will not be affected by the discontinued application of SFAS 71.

(13)  Income Taxes

   The tax  effects of  temporary  differences  that gave rise to  significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31,
1998 and 1997 were as follows:



   Income tax expense for the years ended  December 31, 1998,  1997 and 1996 was
as follows:


   Income tax expense was allocated as follows:



   The following is a reconciliation from the statutory federal income tax rate
to the Company's effective income tax rate:




(14)  Sale or Exchange of Assets

   In  connection  with the first  quarter  1998  acquisition  of  Brooks  Fiber
Properties,  Inc. ("Brooks") by MCIWorldCom,  Inc.  ("WorldCom"),  the Company's
551,000 shares of Brooks' common stock were  converted  into  approximately  1.0
million shares of WorldCom common stock. The Company recorded such conversion at
fair value  which  resulted in a pre-tax  gain of  approximately  $22.8  million
($14.8  million  after-tax;  $.11 per diluted  share).  In the second quarter of
1998, the Company sold 750,000 shares of WorldCom common stock for $35.6 million
cash and recorded a pre-tax gain of $8.7 million  ($5.7  million after tax; $.04
per diluted share).

   In the second quarter of 1998, the Company sold its minority interests in two
non-strategic  cellular  entities  for  approximately  $31.0  million cash which
resulted in a pre-tax gain of $21.8 million ($12.3 million  after-tax;  $.09 per
diluted  share).  Additionally,  in the second quarter the Company wrote off its
minority investment in a start-up company.

   During the second  quarter  of 1998,  the  Company  also sold  various  other
properties that were acquired in the PTI acquisition, including, but not limited
to, the Company's submarine cable operations.  The Company utilized the proceeds
from these  transactions  to reduce its debt  associated with the acquisition of
PTI. In accordance with purchase  accounting,  no gain or loss was recorded upon
the disposition of these assets.

   In May 1997 the Company sold its majority-owned competitive access subsidiary
to Brooks in exchange for  approximately  4.3 million  shares of Brooks'  common
stock.  The Company  recorded a pre-tax gain of  approximately  $71 million ($46
million  after-tax;  $.34 per diluted share).  In November 1997 the Company sold
approximately 3.8 million shares of Brooks' common stock for $202.7 million cash
and  recorded  a  pre-tax  gain  of  approximately  $108  million  ($66  million
after-tax; $.48 per diluted share).

(15)  Retirement and Savings Plans

   Century  sponsors an Outside  Directors'  Retirement  Plan and a Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan to provide directors and officers,  respectively, with
supplemental  retirement,  death and  disability  benefits.  In addition,  as of
December 31, 1998,  the  bargaining  unit employees of a subsidiary are provided
benefits  under a defined  benefit  pension  plan and  substantially  all of the
employees of PTI are covered under a separate defined benefit pension plan.

   The following  table sets forth the combined plans' funded status and amounts
recognized  in the  Company's  consolidated  balance sheet at December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996.



   Net periodic pension cost for 1998, 1997 and 1996 included the following
components:




   The following is a  reconciliation  of the beginning and ending  balances for
the benefit obligation and the plan assets for the retirement and savings plans.



   Assumptions  used in accounting for the pension plans as of December 1998 and
1997 were:

                                                            1998        1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rates                                          6.5-6.75%        7.0
Expected long-term rate of return on assets             8.0-10.0%   8.0-10.0
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Century  sponsors an Employee Stock Bonus Plan ("ESBP") and an Employee Stock
Ownership  Plan  ("ESOP").  These  plans cover most  employees  with one year of
service  with the  Company  and are funded by Company  contributions  determined
annually by the Board of Directors.

   The Company  contributed  $3.7 million,  $2.8 million and $1.9 million to the
ESBP during 1998,  1997 and 1996,  respectively.  At December 31, 1998, the ESBP
owned 5.9 million shares of Century common stock.

   The Company's  contributions  to the ESOP approximate the ESOP's debt service
less dividends  received by the ESOP applicable to unallocated  shares. The ESOP
shares initially were pledged as collateral for its debt. As the debt is repaid,
shares are released from collateral based on the percentage of principal payment
to outstanding debt before applying the principal payment.  As of each year end,
such released shares are allocated to active employees.

   The ESOP had  outstanding  debt of $570,000  at  December  31, 1998 which was
applicable to shares purchased prior to 1993.  Interest  incurred by the ESOP on
such  debt was  $148,000,  $274,000  and  $430,000  in  1998,  1997,  and  1996,
respectively.  The Company  contributed and expensed $1.5 million,  $1.8 million
and $2.1 million during 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively,  with respect to such
shares.  Dividends on unallocated  ESOP shares used for debt service by the ESOP
were $69,000 in 1998,  $126,000 in 1997 and $189,000 in 1996. The number of ESOP
shares as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 which were purchased  prior to 1993 were
as follows:

December 31,                                           1998       1997  
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        (In thousands)

Allocated shares                                       3,153     3,297
Unreleased shares                                         77       320
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       3,230     3,617
================================================================================

   The Company accounts for shares purchased  subsequent to December 31, 1992 in
accordance with Statement of Position 93-6 ("SOP 93-6").  Accordingly, as shares
are released from collateral,  the Company reports compensation expense equal to
the current  market price of the shares and the shares  become  outstanding  for
earnings per share computations. Dividends on allocated ESOP shares are recorded
as a reduction of retained  earnings;  dividends on unallocated  ESOP shares are
recorded as a reduction of debt. ESOP compensation  expense applicable to shares
purchased  subsequent  to 1992 was $2.9 million for 1998,  $1.5 million for 1997
and $1.4 million for 1996.  The fair value of unreleased  ESOP shares  accounted
for under SOP 93-6 was $23.2 million, $13.5 million and $9.7 million at December
31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  ESOP shares purchased subsequent to 1992
totaled 937,913,  of which 422,060 were allocated and 515,853 were unreleased as
of December 31, 1998.

   Century also  sponsors a qualified  profit  sharing plan  pursuant to Section
401(k) of the Internal  Revenue  Code (the "401(k)  Plan") which is available to
substantially all employees of the Company. The Company's matching contributions
to the  401(k)  Plan were $8.5  million in 1998,  $2.8  million in 1997 and $2.3
million in 1996.

(16)  Supplemental Cash Flow Disclosures

   The Company paid interest of $151.4 million,  $48.8 million and $45.1 million
during 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  Income taxes paid were $185.9 million
in 1998, $79.3 million in 1997 and $64.1 million in 1996.

     In  addition  to the  acquisitions  of PTI  and the  Ameritech  properties,
Century has  consummated  the  acquisitions  of various  telephone  and cellular
operations,  along with  certain  other  assets,  during the three  years  ended
December 31, 1998. In connection with these  acquisitions,  the following assets
were acquired, liabilities assumed, and common and preferred stock issued:



     During the second  quarter of 1998,  the Company  sold  various  properties
acquired in the PTI  acquisition;  a portion of its WorldCom stock;  and certain
cellular operations. See Note 14 for additional information.

   In May 1997 the Company sold its majority-owned competitive access subsidiary
in exchange  for  approximately  4.3 million  shares of  publicly-traded  common
stock. In November 1997  approximately  85% of such stock was sold. In addition,
the Company has  consummated  the  disposition of various  cellular  operations,
along with certain other assets, during the three years ended December 31, 1998.
In  connection  with  these  dispositions,   the  following  assets  were  sold,
liabilities eliminated, assets received and gain recognized:



(17)  Fair Value of Financial Instruments

   The following  table presents the carrying  amounts and estimated fair values
of certain of the Company's financial instruments at December 31, 1998 and 1997.



Cash and cash equivalents,  accounts receivable, notes payable, accounts payable
and accrued  expenses - The carrying amount  approximates  the fair value due to
the short maturity of these instruments.

(18)  Business Segments

   The  Company  has  two  reportable  segments:  telephone  and  cellular.  The
Company's  reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different
products and services.

     The Company's  telephone  operations  are conducted in rural,  suburban and
small  urban  communities  in 21  states.  Approximately  86% of  the  Company's
telephone  access  lines  are  in  Wisconsin,   Washington,   Alaska,  Michigan,
Louisiana,  Colorado, Ohio, Oregon and Montana. The Company's cellular customers
are located in Michigan, Louisiana, Wisconsin,  Mississippi, Texas, Arkansas and
Alaska.




   Other  accounts  receivable  are  primarily  amounts  due from  various  long
distance carriers,  principally AT&T, and several large local exchange operating
companies.

(19)  Commitments and Contingencies

   Construction  expenditures  and investments in vehicles,  buildings and other
work  equipment  during 1999 are  estimated  to be $215  million  for  telephone
operations,  $70 million for cellular  operations  and $60 million for corporate
and other operations.

   The Company is involved in various  claims and legal  actions  arising in the
ordinary  course  of  business.  In the  opinion  of  management,  the  ultimate
disposition  of these  matters  will not have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.

(20)  Pending Dispositions

   In August 1998 the Company  entered into a  definitive  agreement to sell the
stock  of the  entities  conducting  the  Company's  Alaska  operations  to ALEC
Acquisition  Corporation for $415 million cash, subject to various  adjustments.
Proceeds  from  this  transaction  will be  used  to  reduce  debt.  The  Alaska
transaction is  anticipated  to close in the second quarter of 1999,  subject to
regulatory approvals and various closing conditions.

   In January 1999 the Company signed  definitive  asset purchase  agreements to
sell all of the  operations  of the  Brownsville  and McAllen,  Texas,  cellular
markets to Western Wireless Corporation for $95 million cash, subject to various
adjustments.  The Company is the majority owner in these markets and, therefore,
will receive its  proportionate  share of the sale proceeds  (approximately  $39
million  after-tax.)  The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter
of 1999, subject to regulatory approvals and various closing conditions.

(21)  Subsequent Event

   On February 23, 1999,  Century's Board of Directors  declared a three-for-two
common stock split effected as a 50% stock dividend in March 1999. All per share
data included in this report has been  restated to reflect this stock split.  An
amount equal to the par value of the additional common shares issued pursuant to
the stock split has been reflected as a transfer from  paid-in-capital to common
stock on the consolidated financial statements for 1998.

                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                    Consolidated Quarterly Income Information


   Diluted  earnings per share for both the first quarter and second  quarter of
1998  included  $.11 of net gain on sale or exchange of assets.  See Note 14 for
additional information.

   Diluted  earnings per share for the second quarter and fourth quarter of 1997
included $.34 and $.44 per share,  respectively,  of gain on sale of assets. The
fourth  quarter of 1997  includes one month of results of  operations of Pacific
Telecom, Inc.


Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
         and Financial Disclosure.

    None.

                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

   The name, age and office(s) held by each of the Registrant's executive
officers are shown below. Each of the executive  officers listed below serves at
the pleasure of the Board of Directors, except Mr. Williams who has entered into
an employment  agreement with the Registrant.  The agreement's  initial term has
lapsed,  but the agreement  remains in effect from year to year,  subject to the
right of Mr. Williams or the Company to terminate such agreement.

Name                         Age       Office(s) held with Century
- ----                         ---       ---------------------------

Clarke M. Williams           77        Chairman of the Board
                                         of Directors

Glen F. Post, III            46        Vice Chairman of the Board of
                                         Directors, President and 
                                         Chief Executive Officer

W. Bruce Hanks               44        Executive Vice President
                                         and Chief Operating Officer

David D. Cole                41        Senior Vice President -
                                         Operational Support

Kenneth R. Cole              51        Senior Vice President -
                                         Operations

R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.        47        Senior Vice President and 
                                         Principal Financial
                                         and Accounting Officer

Harvey P. Perry              54        Senior Vice President, General
                                         Counsel and Secretary

   Each of the Registrant's  executive  officers has served as an officer of the
Registrant and one or more of its  subsidiaries  in varying  capacities for more
than the past five years.  Mr. Hanks has served as Executive  Vice President and
Chief  Operating  Officer  since  November  1998,  as Senior  Vice  President  -
Corporate  Development  and  Strategy  from  October 1996 to October 1998 and as
President -  Telecommunications  Services or a comparable  position from 1989 to
1996. Mr. David D. Cole has served as Senior Vice President  Operational Support
since  November 1998, as President - Wireless Group from October 1996 to October
1998 and as Vice  President from 1990 to 1996. Mr. Kenneth R. Cole has served as
Senior Vice President - Operations since November 1998, as President - Telephone
Group from January 1995 to October 1998 and Vice President from 1983 to 1994.

   The  balance  of the  information  required  by  Item 10 is  incorporated  by
reference to the Registrant's  definitive  proxy statement  relating to its 1999
annual meeting of stockholders  (the "Proxy  Statement"),  which Proxy Statement
will be filed  pursuant to  Regulation  14A within 120 days after the end of the
last fiscal year.

Item 11.    Executive Compensation.

   The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference to the Proxy
Statement.

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

   The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference to the Proxy
Statement.

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

   The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the Proxy
Statement.


                                     PART IV

Item 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

       a.   Financial Statements

            (i) Consolidated Financial Statements:

                  Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated Financial
                     Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

                  Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
                     December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years
                     ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                  Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1998 and 1997

                  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
                     ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the
                     years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                  Consolidated Quarterly Income Information (unaudited)

            (ii)  Schedules:*

                  I    Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                  II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                  *    Those schedules not listed above are omitted as not
                         applicable or not required.

b.    Reports on Form 8-K.

(i) The following item was reported in a Form 8-K filed December 3, 1998.

                 Item 5. Other Events - News release announcing the acquisition
                         of certain of  Ameritech's  telephone operations and
                         related directories in Wisconsin.



            (ii) The following items were reported in a Form 8-K filed December
10, 1998.

                 Item 2. News release announcing third quarter result of
operations.

c.    Exhibits:

           3(i)      Amended  and   Restated   Articles  of   Incorporation   of
                     Registrant,  dated as of December 2, 1996, (incorporated by
                     reference to Exhibit 3(i) to Registrant's  Annual Report on
                     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).

           3(ii)     Registrant's  Bylaws,  as amended  through  October 7, 1998
                     (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit   3(ii)  of  the
                     Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                     ended September 30, 1998).

           4.1       Note Purchase  Agreement,  dated September 1, 1989, between
                     Registrant,  Teachers Insurance and Annuity  Association of
                     America and the Lincoln  National  Life  Insurance  Company
                     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.23 to Registrant's
                     Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended
                     September 30, 1989).

           4.2       Rights  Agreement,  dated as of August  27,  1996,  between
                     Century  Telephone  Enterprises,  Inc. and Society National
                     Bank,  as  Rights  Agent,  including  the  form  of  Rights
                     Certificate  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 1 of
                     Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K filed  August 30,
                     1996).

           4.3       Form  of  common  stock   certificate   of  the  Registrant
                     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to  Registrant's
                     Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended June
                     30, 1993).

           4.4       Indenture  dated as of March 31,  1994  between the Company
                     and Regions Bank  (formerly  First American Bank & Trust of
                     Louisiana),   as  Trustee  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                     Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                     S-3, Registration No. 33-52915).

           4.5       Resolutions  designating  the terms and  conditions  of the
                     Company's  7-3/4%  Senior  Notes,  Series  A,  due 2004 and
                     8-1/4% Senior Notes,  Series B, due 2024  (incorporated  by
                     reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's  Quarterly  Report
                     on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994).

           4.6       Resolutions  designating  the terms and  conditions  of the
                     Company's  6.55% Senior Notes,  Series C, due 2005 and 7.2%
                     Senior Notes, Series D, due 2025 (incorporated by reference
                     to Exhibit 4.27 to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                     for the year ended December 31, 1995).

           4.7       Form  of  Senior  Notes  described  in 4.5  and  4.6  above
                     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Company's
                     Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-3,  Registration  No.
                     33-52915).

           4.8       Competitive   Advance   and   Revolving   Credit   Facility
                     Agreement,  dated as of August 28, 1997, among  Registrant,
                     the lenders named therein,  and NationsBank of Texas,  N.A.
                     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to  Registrant's
                     Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended
                     September 30, 1997).

           4.9       Resolutions  designating  the terms and  conditions  of the
                     Company's  6.15% Senior  Notes,  Series E, due 2005;  6.30%
                     Senior Notes,  Series F, due 2008;  and 6.875%  Debentures,
                     Series G, due 2028,  (incorporated  by reference to exhibit
                     4.9 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                     ended December 31, 1997).

           4.10      Form of  Board  Resolution  to be used in  designating  and
                     authorizing  the  terms  and  conditions  of any  series of
                     Senior Debt  Securities  issuable under the Company's shelf
                     registration   statement   (incorporated  by  reference  to
                     Exhibit 4.3 of the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                     S-3, Registration No. 333-42013).

           4.11      Form of  Senior  Debt  Securities  described  in 4.9  above
                     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Company's
                     Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-3,  Registration  No.
                     333-42013).

           4.12      First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 2, 1998,
                     to Indenture between CenturyTel of the Northwest,  Inc. and
                     The  First  National  Bank  of  Chicago   (incorporated  by
                     reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's  Quarterly Report
                     on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998).

           10.1      Employee Benefit Plans

                     (a) Registrant's  Employee Stock  Ownership Plan and Trust,
                         as amended and restated December 30, 1994 (incorporated
                         by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's  Quarterly
                         Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,
                         1995),   amendment   thereto  dated  January  26,  1996
                         (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1(a)  to
                         Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the year
                         ended  December 31, 1995) and  amendment  thereto dated
                         July 15, 1996  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit
                         10.2 to Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                         the quarter ended June 30, 1996), and amendment thereto
                         dated December 31, 1996  (incorporated  by reference to
                         Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                         10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended  March  31,  1997),  and
                         amendment thereto dated March 18, 1997 (incorporated by
                         reference  to Exhibit  10.6 to  Registrant's  Quarterly
                         Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,
                         1997),  and  amendments  thereto  dated January 1, 1997
                         (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   10.3  to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter  ended June 30, 1997),  and  amendment  thereto
                         dated December 29, 1998, included elsewhere herein.

                     (b) Registrant's  Stock  Bonus Plan,  PAYSOP and Trust,  as
                         amended and restated December 30, 1994 (incorporated by
                         reference  to Exhibit  10.2 to  Registrant's  Quarterly
                         Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,
                         1995),   amendment   thereto   dated   July  11,   1995
                         (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   10.4  to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter ended June 30, 1995),  amendment  thereto dated
                         January 26, 1996  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                         10.1(b) to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                         the year ended December 31, 1995) and amendment thereto
                         dated  July 15,  1996  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                         Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                         10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended  June  30,  1996),   and
                         amendment thereto dated December 31, 1996 (incorporated
                         by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's  Quarterly
                         Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,
                         1997),  and  amendments  thereto  dated January 1, 1997
                         (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   10.2  to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter  ended June 30, 1997),  and  amendment  thereto
                         dated December 29, 1998, included elsewhere herein.

                     (c) Registrant's Dollars & Sense Plan and Trust, as amended
                         and restated,  effective  January 1, 1998 and amendment
                         thereto   dated   December  29,  1998,   both  included
                         elsewhere herein.

                     (d) Registrant's Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement
                         Plan,  generally  effective  as of  November  16,  1995
                         (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1(d)  to
                         Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the year
                         ended  December 31, 1995) and  amendment  thereto dated
                         November 21, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                         10.1(d) to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                         the year ended December 31, 1996).

                     (e) Registrant's 1983 Restricted Stock Plan, dated February
                         21,  1984,  as amended and  restated as of November 16,
                         1995  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1(e) to
                         Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the year
                         ended  December 31, 1995) and  amendment  thereto dated
                         November  21,  1996,   (incorporated  by  reference  to
                         Exhibit 10.1(e) to  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form
                         10-K  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1996),  and
                         amendment thereto dated February 25, 1997 (incorporated
                         by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's  Quarterly
                         Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,
                         1997).

                     (f) Registrant's Key Employee Incentive  Compensation Plan,
                         dated  January 1, 1984,  as amended and  restated as of
                         November 16, 1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                         10.1(f) to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                         the year ended December 31, 1995) and amendment thereto
                         dated November 21, 1996  (incorporated  by reference to
                         Exhibit 10.1 (f) to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form
                         10-K  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1996),  and
                         amendment thereto dated February 25, 1997 (incorporated
                         by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's  Quarterly
                         Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,
                         1997).

                     (g) Registrant's  1988  Incentive  Compensation  Program as
                         amended and restated August 22, 1989  (incorporated  by
                         reference  to Exhibit  19.8 to  Registrant's  Quarterly
                         Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                         1989) and  amendment  thereto  dated  November 21, 1996
                         (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1(g)  to
                         Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the year
                         ended December 31, 1996).

                     (h) Form of Stock Option Agreement  entered into in 1988 by
                         the Registrant, pursuant to 1988 Incentive Compensation
                         Program, with certain of its officers  (incorporated by
                         reference  to  Exhibit  10.10  to  Registrant's  Annual
                         Report on Form  10-K for the year  ended  December  31,
                         1988) and amendment thereto  (incorporated by reference
                         to Exhibit 4.6 to Registrant's Registration No.
                         33-31314).

                     (i) Registrant's 1990 Incentive Compensation Program, dated
                         March 15, 1990  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
                         19.1 to Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                         the quarter ended June 30, 1990) and amendment  thereto
                         dated November 21, 1996  (incorporated  by reference to
                         Exhibit 10.1(i) to  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form
                         10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).

                     (j) Form of Stock Option Agreement  entered into in 1990 by
                         the Registrant, pursuant to 1990 Incentive Compensation
                         Program, with certain of its officers  (incorporated by
                         reference  to Exhibit  19.3 to  Registrant's  Quarterly
                         Report  on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,
                         1990) and  amendment  thereto  dated as of May 22, 1995
                         (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   10.1  to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter ended September 30, 1995).

                     (k) Form of Stock Option Agreement  entered into in 1992 by
                         the Registrant, pursuant to 1990 Incentive Compensation
                         Program,  with certain of its  officers  and  employees
                         (incorporated   by  reference   to  Exhibit   10.17  to
                         Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the year
                         ended December 31, 1992) and amendment thereto dated as
                         of May 22, 1995  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                         10.2 to Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                         the quarter ended September 30, 1995).

                     (l) Registrant's 1995 Incentive  Compensation Plan approved
                         by   Registrant's   shareholders   on  May   11,   1995
                         (incorporated   by   reference   to   Exhibit   4.4  to
                         Registration No. 33-60061) and amendment  thereto dated
                         November 21, 1996 (incorporated by Reference to Exhibit
                         10.1 (l) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                         the  year  ended  December  31,  1996),  and  amendment
                         thereto  dated  February  25,  1997   (incorporated  by
                         reference  to Exhibit  10.1 to  Registrant's  Quarterly
                         Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,
                         1997).

                     (m) Form  of  Stock  Option  Agreement,  pursuant  to  1995
                         Incentive  Compensation  Plan  and  dated as of May 22,
                         1995,  entered  into by  Registrant  and  its  officers
                         (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   10.5  to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter ended June 30, 1995).

                     (n) Form  of  Stock  Option  Agreement,  pursuant  to  1995
                         Incentive  Compensation  Plan and  dated as of June 23,
                         1995,  entered  into  by  Registrant  and  certain  key
                         employees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter ended June 30, 1995).

                     (o) Form of  Performance  Share  Agreement  Under  the 1990
                         Incentive  Compensation  Program,  entered into in 1993
                         with   certain   of   its   officers   and    employees
                         (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   28.1  to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter  ended March 31,  1993) and  amendment  thereto
                         dated as of May 22, 1995  (incorporated by reference to
                         Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                         10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995).

                     (p) Registrant's Restated Supplemental Defined Contribution
                         Plan,  dated as of November 16, 1995  (incorporated  by
                         reference  to Exhibit  10.1(q) to  Registrant's  Annual
                         Report on Form  10-K for the year  ended  December  31,
                         1995),   amendment   thereto   dated   July  15,   1996
                         (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   10.4  to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter  ended  June 30,  1996) and  amendment  thereto
                         dated November 21, 1996  (incorporated  by reference to
                         Exhibit 10.1 (p) to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form
                         10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).

                     (q) Registrant's Amended and Restated  Supplemental Dollars
                         & Sense Plan, effective as of January 1, 1999, included
                         elsewhere herein.

                     (r) Registrant's  Amended and Restated Salary  Continuation
                         (Disability) Plan for Officers, dated November 26, 1991
                         (incorporated   by  reference   to  Exhibit   10.16  of
                         Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the year
                         ended December 31, 1991).

                     (s) Registrant's  Restated  Outside  Directors'  Retirement
                         Plan,  dated as of November 16, 1995  (incorporated  by
                         reference  to Exhibit  10.1(t) to  Registrant's  Annual
                         Report on Form  10-K for the year  ended  December  31,
                         1995).

                     (t) Registrant's  Restated  Deferred  Compensation Plan for
                         Outside  Directors,  dated  as  of  November  16,  1995
                         (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1(u)  to
                         Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the year
                         ended December 31, 1995).

                     (u) Form  of  Stock  Option  Agreement,  pursuant  to  1995
                         Incentive  Compensation  Plan and dated as of  February
                         24, 1997,  entered into by Registrant  and its officers
                         (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   10.4  to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter ended June 30, 1997).

                     (v) Registrant's  Chairman/Chief Executive Officer
                         Short-Term Incentive Program (incorporated by reference
                         to Exhibit  10.6 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on
                         Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).

                     (w) Amended and Restated  Restricted  Stock and Performance
                         Share    Agreement,    pursuant   to   1995   Incentive
                         Compensation  Plan,  dated  as  of  February  24,  1998
                         (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   10.2  to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter ended March 31, 1998).

                     (x) Form  of  Restricted   Stock  and   Performance   Share
                         Agreement,  pursuant  to  1995  Incentive  Compensation
                         Plan,  dated as of February 24, 1998  (incorporated  by
                         reference  to Exhibit  10.3 to  Registrant's  Quarterly
                         Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,
                         1998).

                     (y) Registrant's   Supplemental   Defined   Benefit   Plan,
                         effective  as of January 1,  1999,  included  elsewhere
                         herein.

                     (z) Registrant's  Amended  and  Restated  Retirement  Plan,
                         effective  as of January 1,  1999,  included  elsewhere
                         herein.

           10.2      Employment, Severance and Related Agreements

                     (a) Employment  Agreement,  dated  May  24,  1993,  by  and
                         between Clarke M. Williams and Registrant (incorporated
                         by reference to Exhibit 19.1 to Registrant's  Quarterly
                         Report  on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,
                         1993) and  amendment  thereto  dated as of February 27,
                         1996  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.2(a) to
                         Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the year
                         ended December 31, 1995).

                     (b) Form of Amended and Restated  Severance  Agreement,  by
                         and  between  Registrant  and  each  of  its  executive
                         officers  other than  Clarke M.  Williams,  dated as of
                         November 16, 1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                         10.2(b) to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                         the year ended December 31, 1995).

                     (c) Form of Amended and Restated  Severance  Agreement,  by
                         and between  Registrant  and three of its  officers who
                         are not  executive  officers,  dated as of November 16,
                         1995  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.2(c) to
                         Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the year
                         ended December 31, 1995).

                     (d) Agreement,  dated December 31, 1994, by and between Jim
                         D. Reppond and Registrant (incorporated by reference to
                         Exhibit  10.24 to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form
                         10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994).

                     (e)  Consulting Agreement, dated as of July 2, 1996, by and
                         between Century Telephone Enterprises,  Inc. and Jim D.
                         Reppond  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 10 to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter ended September 30, 1996).

           10.3      Other Agreements

                     (a) Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 11, 1997, by
                         and among PacifiCorp  Holdings, Inc., Pacific Telecom, 
                         Inc., Century Telephone  Enterprises, Inc. and Century
                         Cellunet, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                         2.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form  8-K filed
                         June 24, 1997) and amendment thereto, dated November 5,
                         1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to 
                         Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 
                         1, 1997 and filed December 11, 1997).

                     (b) Purchase   Agreement  by  and  among  ALEC  Acquisition
                         Corporation,  CenturyTel  of the  Northwest,  Inc.  and
                         CenturyTel  Wireless,   Inc.,  dated  August  14,  1998
                         (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   10.1  to
                         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
                         quarter ended September 30, 1998).

           21        Subsidiaries of the Registrant, included elsewhere herein.

           23        Independent Auditors' Consent, included elsewhere herein.

           27        Financial Data Schedule, included elsewhere herein.



                                         SIGNATURES


     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                               CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.


Date:    March 15, 1999                     By: /s/ Clarke M. Williams
                                                ----------------------
                                                Clarke M. Williams
                                                Chairman of the Board

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


/s/ Clark M. Williams 
- -------------------------     Chairman of the Board
Clarke M. Williams              of Directors               March 15, 1999

                              
                              Vice Chairman of the  
/s/ Glen F. Post, III           Board of Directors,
- -------------------------       President, and Chief
Glen F. Post, III               Executive Officer          March 15, 1999


                              
/s/ R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.     Senior Vice President  
- -------------------------       and Principal Financial
R. Stewart Ewing, Jr            and Accounting Officer     March 15, 1999


                              
/s/ Harvey P. Perry           Senior Vice President,  
- ------------------------        General Counsel,
Harvey P. Perry                 Secretary and Director     March 15, 1999


                              
/s/ W. Bruce Hanks            Executive Vice President,  
- ------------------------        Chief Operating Officer
W. Bruce Hanks                  and Director               March 15, 1999


/s/ William R. Boles, Jr.    
- ------------------------      
William R. Boles, Jr.         Director                     March 15, 1999


/s/ Virginia Boulet
- ------------------------
Virginia Boulet               Director                     March 15,1999


/s/ Ernest Butler, Jr.        
- -------------------------
Ernest Butler, Jr.            Director                     March 15, 1999


/s/ Calvin Czeschin           
- ------------------------
Calvin Czeschin               Director                     March 15, 1999


/s/ James B. Gardner          
- ------------------------
James B. Gardner              Director                     March 15, 1999


/s/ R. L. Hargrove, Jr.      
- ------------------------
R. L. Hargrove, Jr.           Director                     March 15, 1999


/s/ Johnny Hebert             
- ------------------------
Johnny Hebert                 Director                     March 15, 1999


/s/ F. Earl Hogan             
- ------------------------
F. Earl Hogan                 Director                     March 15, 1999


/s/ C. G. Melville, Jr.       
- ------------------------
C. G. Melville, Jr.           Director                     March 15, 1999


/s/ Jim D. Reppond            
- ------------------------
Jim D. Reppond                Director                     March 15, 1999









           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                              STATEMENTS OF INCOME


See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.



           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (continued)
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                                 BALANCE SHEETS

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.


           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (Continued)
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS




           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (continued)
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
             NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT



(A)  LONG-TERM DEBT

     The  approximate annual debt maturities for the five years subsequent to
December 31, 1998 are as follows:

                               1999 -  $  30.0 million
                               2000 -  $  37.4 million
                               2001 -  $  56.6 million
                               2002 -  $ 688.8 million
                               2003 -  $   3.8 million

(B)  GUARANTEES

     As of December 31,  1998,  Century has  guaranteed a promissory  note for a
subsidiary of $2.0 million, as well as the applicable interest and premium.

(C)  DIVIDENDS FROM SUBSIDIARIES

     Dividends paid to Century by consolidated subsidiaries were $116.9 million,
$117.5 million and $472,800 during 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

(D)  INCOME TAXES AND INTEREST PAID

     Income  taxes  paid  by  Century   (including   amounts   reimbursed   from
subsidiaries) were $162.0 million,  $71.8 million and $56.0 million during 1998,
1997, and 1996 respectively.

     Interest  paid by  Century  was $114.7  million,  $42.4  million  and $37.3
million during 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

(E)  AFFILIATED TRANSACTIONS

     Century  provides  and bills  management  services to  subsidiaries  and in
certain  instances makes interest  bearing  advances to finance  construction of
plant and purchases of equipment.  Century recorded intercompany interest income
of $39.7  million,  $26.6  million  and $26.4  million  in 1998,  1997 and 1996,
respectively.

(F)   SUBSEQUENT EVENT

     On February 23, 1999, Century's Board of Directors declared a three-for-two
common  stock split  effected as a 50% stock  dividend in March 1999.  An amount
equal to the par value of the  additional  common shares issued  pursuant to the
stock split has been  reflected  as a transfer  from  paid-in-capital  to common
stock on the Condensed Financial Information of Registrant for 1998.



                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.

              For the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996


