
10-K405


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

           [ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995

                                       or

          [ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file number 1-7784

                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.

          A Louisiana Corporation        I.R.S. Employer Identification
                                                 No. 72-0651161

                 100 Century Park Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203

                         Telephone number (318) 388-9500

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Common Stock,
par value $1.00

Exchange on which registered:   New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
                                                        Yes [X]      No [    ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

As of February  29,  1996,  the  aggregate  market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates  (affiliates  being for these purposes only directors,  executive
officers  and  holders of more than five  percent of the  Company's  outstanding
voting securities) was $2.0 billion.

As  of  February  29,  1996,  there  were  59,339,041  shares  of  common  stock
outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Portions of the Proxy Statement prepared in connection with the 1996 annual 
meeting of shareholders are incorporated in Part III of this Report.


                                     PART I

Item 1.        Business

    General.  Century  Telephone  Enterprises,  Inc.  ("Century")  is a regional
diversified  telecommunications  company that is primarily  engaged in providing
traditional telephone services and cellular telephone  communications  services.
For  the  year  ended  December  31,  1995,   telephone  operations  and  mobile
communications   operations   (cellular   operations)   provided  65%  and  31%,
respectively,  of the consolidated revenues of Century and its subsidiaries (the
"Company"). All of the Company's operations are conducted within the continental
United States.

    At December 31, 1995,  the Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  operated over
480,000  telephone  access lines,  primarily in rural,  suburban and small urban
areas in 14 states,  with the  largest  customer  bases  located  in  Wisconsin,
Louisiana, Michigan and Ohio. According to published sources, the Company is the
sixteenth largest local exchange telephone company in the United States based on
the number of access lines served.

    Whenever used herein with respect to the Company,  the term "pops" means the
population  of  licensed  cellular   telephone  markets  (based  on  independent
third-party  population  estimates)  multiplied by the  Company's  proportionate
equity  interests  in the  licensed  operators  thereof.  The term "MSA" means a
Metropolitan  Statistical Area for which the Federal  Communications  Commission
(the "FCC") has  granted a cellular  operating  license.  The term "RSA" means a
Rural Service Area for which the FCC has granted a cellular  operating  license.
The term "wireline  license" refers to the cellular  operating license initially
reserved  by the FCC for  companies  providing  local  telephone  service in the
licensed  market  and the term  "non-wireline  license"  refers  to the  license
initially  reserved  for  licensees   unaffiliated  with  such  local  telephone
companies.

    At December 31, 1995, the Company,  through its cellular  operations,  owned
approximately 7.6 million pops in 27 MSAs,  primarily  concentrated in Michigan,
Louisiana,  Mississippi  and Texas,  and 29 RSAs, most of which are in Michigan,
Louisiana and Arkansas.  The Company is the majority owner and operator in 19 of
the MSAs and 18 of the RSAs, which collectively  represent 6.4 million pops, and
has minority interests in the other MSAs and RSAs, which collectively  represent
1.2 million  pops. Of the  Company's  7.6 million  pops,  approximately  72% are
attributable  to the Company's MSA interests,  with the balance  attributable to
its RSA  interests.  According  to  data  derived  from  published  sources,  at
September  30, 1995 the Company was the  fifteenth  largest  cellular  telephone
company in the United States based on the Company's  owned pops. At December 31,
1995, the Company's  majority-owned  and operated cellular systems had more than
290,000  cellular  subscribers.  Except  for five MSAs and two RSAs,  all of the
cellular systems operated by the Company are operated under wireline licenses.

    The Company also provides long distance,  operator and interactive  services
in certain local and regional  markets,  as well as certain printing and related
services, and has recently entered the competitive access business.

    Recent  Acquisitions  and  Dispositions.  In January 1995  Century  acquired
Tele-Max, Inc. and its affiliates. In connection with this acquisition,  Century
acquired  approximately  5,300  telephone  access lines in a suburban  community
north of Dallas,  Texas and a one-half of one percent interest in the Dallas MSA
wireline cellular system (which represented  approximately  20,000 pops). In the
third quarter of 1995 the Company  acquired 100% of the Michigan RSA #4 wireline
cellular system, along with the non-wireline cellular systems in Mississippi RSA
#2 and  Mississippi  RSA #6, which,  at December 31, 1995,  had  populations  of
131,100,  242,800 and 182,600,  respectively.  Mississippi RSA #6 is adjacent to
the Jackson,  Mississippi MSA that the Company  operates;  Mississippi RSA #2 is
located in northeastern  Mississippi between Memphis,  Tennessee and Birmingham,
Alabama.  Michigan RSA #4 is located in northeastern Michigan and is adjacent to
other markets the Company operates.

    In  accordance  with its strategy of  clustering  its telephone and cellular
businesses, during 1995 the Company sold its ownership interests in several RSAs
located primarily in western states and three MSAs located in the midwest, which
in the aggregate represented approximately 250,000 pops.

    The  Company  is  continually   evaluating  the   possibility  of  acquiring
additional  telephone access lines and cellular  interests in exchange for cash,
securities or both.  Although the Company's primary focus will continue to be on
acquiring  telephone and cellular interests that are proximate to its properties
or  that  serve  a  customer  base  large  enough  for the  Company  to  operate
efficiently, other communications interests may also be acquired.

    Other.  As of December 31, 1995, the Company  employed  approximately  3,100
persons,  of which  approximately 200 employees located in Ohio are covered by a
three-year   collective   bargaining  agreement  between  the  Company  and  the
Communications Workers of America. The agreement lapses on March 30, 1997.

    Century was  incorporated  under Louisiana law in 1968 to serve as a holding
company for several  telephone  companies  acquired  over the  previous 15 to 20
years.  Century's  principal  executive  offices are located at 100 Century Park
Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203 and its telephone number is (318) 388-9500.



                              TELEPHONE OPERATIONS

    The Company is the sixteenth largest local exchange telephone company in the
United States, based on the more than 480,000 access lines it served at December
31, 1995.  Currently,  the Company  operates over 500 central  office and remote
switching  centers  in its  telephone  operating  areas.  Over the past  decade,
Century  has  installed  digital  switching  platforms  throughout  most  of its
switching  network.  At December 31, 1995,  99% of Century's  total access lines
were digitally switched.  Through its operating telephone subsidiaries,  Century
provides services to predominately rural, suburban and small urban markets in 14
states. The table below sets forth certain information with respect to Century's
access lines as of December 31, 1995:


    As indicated in the following table,  Century has experienced  growth in its
telephone operations over the past several years, a substantial portion of which
was  attributable  to  acquisitions  of  other  telephone  companies  and to the
expansion of services:




    Future  growth in  telephone  operations  is expected to be derived from (i)
acquiring  additional  telephone  companies,   (ii)  providing  service  to  new
customers, (iii) increasing network usage and (iv) providing additional services
made  possible  by  advances  in  technology  and  changes  in  regulation.  For
information on developing competitive trends, see "-Regulation and Competition."

Services

    The Company's telephone subsidiaries derive revenue from providing (i) local
telephone  services,  (ii) network  access and long distance  services and (iii)
other related services. The following table reflects the percentage of telephone
operating revenues derived from these respective services:

                                        1995          1994          1993
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Local service                           26.6%         25.6          25.3
Network access and long distance        61.7          62.3          62.0
Other                                   11.7          12.1          12.7
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       100.0%        100.0         100.0
========================================================================

    Local  service  revenues are  generated by the  provision of local  exchange
telephone services in the Company's franchised service areas.

    Network  access and long  distance  revenues  primarily  relate to  services
provided by the Company to  interexchange  carriers (long distance  carriers) in
connection  with the use of the  Company's  facilities to originate and complete
interstate and intrastate long distance  telephone calls.  Most of the Company's
interstate  network access  revenues are derived  through  pooling  arrangements
administered by the National  Exchange Carrier  Association  ("NECA").  The NECA
receives  access  charges  billed by the Company and other  participating  local
exchange  carriers  ("LECs") to interstate long distance  carriers and other LEC
customers for their use of the local exchange  network to complete long distance
calls and subsequently  distributes  these revenues to such LECs based primarily
on cost separation studies. The charges billed to the long distance carriers and
other LEC customers are based on tariffed access rates filed with the FCC by the
NECA on behalf of the Company and other participating LECs.  Interstate revenues
as a percentage of telephone  operating  revenues  amounted to 34.6%,  33.5% and
32.0% in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

    Certain of the  Company's  intrastate  network  access  revenues are derived
through  access  charges  billed by the  Company  directly  to  intrastate  long
distance  carriers  and other LEC  customers.  Such  intrastate  network  access
charges  are  based on access  tariffs  which are  subject  to state  regulatory
commission approval.  Additionally,  certain of the Company's intrastate network
access  revenues,  along with  intrastate  long distance  revenues,  are derived
through state pooling  arrangements  and are determined based on cost separation
studies or special settlement arrangements.

    The  installation  of digital  switches  and  related  software  has been an
important  component  of the  Company's  growth  strategy  because it allows the
Company to offer enhanced services (such as call forwarding, conference calling,
caller  identification,  selective call ringing and call waiting) and to thereby
increase  utilization  of existing  access  lines.  In 1995 and early 1996,  the
Company continued to expand its list of premium services (such as voice mail and
internet  access)  offered in certain  service areas and  aggressively  marketed
these services.

    The  Company is  installing  fiber  optic  cable in high  traffic  routes in
certain  areas in which it  operates  and has  provided  alternative  routing of
telephone  service over fiber optic cable  networks in several of its  strategic
operating areas. At December 31, 1995, the Company had over 2,000 miles of fiber
optic cable in place.

    Other revenues include revenues related to (i) leasing, selling, installing,
maintaining  and repairing  customer  premise  telecommunications  equipment and
wiring,  (ii)  providing  billing  and  collection  services  for  interexchange
carriers,  (iii)  leasing  network  facilities  and  (iv)  participating  in the
publication of local directories. Certain large telecommunications companies for
which the Company currently provides billing and collection services continue to
indicate their desire to reduce their billing and collection expenses,  which is
expected to result in future reductions of billing and collection revenues.

     For further information on the regulation of the Company's revenues, 
see "-Regulation and Competition."

Federal Financing Programs

    Certain of the Company's telephone  subsidiaries receive long-term financing
from the Rural  Utilities  Service ("RUS") and the Rural Telephone Bank ("RTB").
The RUS has made  long-term  loans to  telephone  companies  since  1949 for the
purpose of improving telephone service in rural areas. The RUS continues to make
new  loans  at  interest  rates  that  range  from 5% to 7%  based  on  borrower
qualifications and the cost of money to the United States  government.  The RTB,
established  in 1971,  makes  long-term  loans at  interest  rates  based on its
average cost of funds as determined by statutory formula (such rates ranged from
6.04% to 6.88% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995),  and in some cases
makes loans  concurrently with RUS loans. Most of the Company's  telephone plant
is  pledged  or  mortgaged  to secure  obligations  of the  Company's  telephone
subsidiaries to the RUS and RTB. The Company's telephone subsidiaries which have
borrowed from government agencies generally may not loan or advance any funds to
Century, but may pay dividends if certain financial ratios are met.

    For  additional  information  regarding  the  Company's  financing,  see the
Company's consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 herein.

Regulation and Competition

    Traditionally, LECs have operated as regulated monopolies. Consequently, the
majority of the Company's  telephone  operations  are regulated  extensively  by
various state regulatory  agencies  (generally called public service commissions
or public  utility  commissions)  and by the FCC. As discussed in greater detail
below, passage of the  Telecommunications  Act of 1996 (the "1996 Act"), coupled
with state legislative and regulatory initiatives and technological changes, has
fundamentally  altered the telephone industry by reducing the regulation of LECs
and permitting competition in each segment of the  telecommunications  industry.
Although Century  anticipates  that these trends towards reduced  regulation and
increased  competition will continue,  the form and degree of future  regulation
and competition in the Company's  franchised service areas cannot be ascertained
at this time.

    State  Regulation.  The local service rates and intrastate access charges of
substantially all of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are regulated by state
regulatory  commissions that  traditionally have regulated pricing through "rate
of return"  regulation  that focuses on  authorized  levels of earnings by LECs.
Most of these  commissions also (i) regulate the purchase and sale of LECs, (ii)
prescribe  depreciation  rates  and  certain  accounting  procedures  and  (iii)
regulate  various  other  matters,   including  certain  service  standards  and
operating procedures. In certain states, construction and/or financing plans are
also subject to regulatory approval.

    In recent  years,  Ohio,  Michigan,  Wisconsin,  Louisiana  and other  state
legislatures and regulatory  commissions having  jurisdiction over the Company's
telephone  subsidiaries  have either begun to reduce the  regulation  of LECs or
have announced  their  intention to review such  regulation,  and it is expected
that this trend will continue.  This reduced regulatory  oversight of certain of
the  Company's  telephone  operations  may  allow the  Company  to offer new and
competitive  services  faster  than under the  traditional  regulatory  process.
Coincident  with  these  efforts  is  the   introduction  of  competition   into
traditionally  monopolistic  segments  of  the  industry.  For a  discussion  of
legislative,   regulatory  and   technological   changes  that  have  introduced
competition  into the local  exchange  industry,  see  "-Developments  Affecting
Competition."

    Substantially  all  of  the  state  regulatory  commissions  have  statutory
authority,  the specific limits of which vary, to initiate and conduct  earnings
reviews  of the  LECs  that  they  regulate.  As  part of the  movement  towards
deregulation,  several  states are moving away from  traditional  rate of return
regulation  towards price cap  regulation  and incentive  regulation  (which are
similar to the FCC regulations  discussed below),  and are actively  encouraging
larger LECs to adopt these newer forms of price regulation.  The continuation of
this trend may lead to fewer earnings reviews in the future. Currently, however,
most of the  Company's  LECs  continue  to be  regulated  under  rate of  return
regulation.  During  1995  the  Louisiana  Public  Service  Commission  ("LPSC")
culminated its two-year investigation into the earnings of independent telephone
companies  in  Louisiana by adopting a new  regulatory  plan for such  companies
effective  July  1,  1995.  For  additional  information,   see  Regulation  and
Competition in Item 7 herein. As stated in Item 7, the Company  anticipates that
the impact of these changes will adversely  affect its results of operations and
there is no assurance that the effect will not be material.  In addition,  there
is no assurance that future reviews,  in Louisiana or in other states,  will not
lead to future  revenue  reductions or customer  refunds.  Also, in light of the
movement away from  traditional rate of return  regulation,  no assurance can be
given that the Company's LECs will continue to earn the same rate of return that
they achieved in recent years.

    FCC Regulation.  The FCC regulates the interstate  services  provided by the
Company's telephone  subsidiaries  primarily by regulating the interstate access
charges that are billed to interexchange carriers and other LEC customers by the
Company for use of its local  network in  connection  with the  origination  and
termination of interstate telephone calls. Additionally,  the FCC has prescribed
certain rules and regulations  for telephone  companies,  including  regulations
regarding the use of radio frequencies;  a uniform system of accounts; and rules
regarding the separation of costs between jurisdictions and, ultimately, between
services.

    Effective January 1, 1991, the FCC adopted price-cap  regulation relating to
interstate access rates for the Regional Bell Operating  Companies ("RBOCs") and
GTE  Corporation.  An  annual  opportunity  to  elect  price-cap  regulation  is
available  for other  LECs.  Under  price-cap  regulation,  limits  imposed on a
company's  interstate rates will be adjusted  periodically to reflect inflation,
productivity  improvement and changes in certain  non-controllable costs. In May
1993 the FCC adopted an optional incentive  regulatory plan for LECs not subject
to price-cap  regulation.  A LEC electing the optional incentive regulatory plan
would, among other things,  file tariffs based primarily on historical costs and
not be allowed to  participate  in the relevant NECA pooling  arrangements.  The
Company has not elected price-cap  regulation or the incentive  regulatory plan,
but will continue to evaluate its options on a periodic basis. Consequently, the
authorized  interstate  access  rate  of  return  for  the  Company's  telephone
subsidiaries is 11.25%,  which is the authorized rate established by the FCC for
LECs not governed by price-cap  regulation or the optional incentive  regulatory
plan.

    In  February  1996 the FCC  sought  public  comments  on  whether  it should
initiate a rate of return represcription proceeding for LECs that are subject to
rate of return regulation for interstate access revenues.

    High-Cost  Support Funds,  Revenue Pools and Related Matters.  A significant
number of the Company's telephone  subsidiaries recover a portion of their costs
under federal and state cost recovery mechanisms that traditionally have allowed
LECs  serving  small   communities   and  rural  areas  to  provide   access  to
telecommunications  services  reasonably  comparable to those available in urban
areas and at reasonably comparable prices.

    The FCC and certain state regulatory  commissions have recently  explored or
implemented  initiatives  to  evaluate or reduce the funding of certain of these
cost recovery  mechanisms.  In December 1993 the FCC adopted interim  provisions
which placed  certain  limitations on the FCC's  Universal  Service Fund ("USF")
growth  rate,  including a cap which has been  extended  through  mid-1996.  The
Company  anticipates  that revenues from the USF under these interim  provisions
will continue to increase in the near term, but at a lesser percentage rate than
that associated with recent prior periods.  In July 1995 the FCC sought comments
on proposals and policy changes relating to certain federal high-cost assistance
mechanisms that provide substantial revenues to the Company,  including the USF.
The FCC's stated goals are to ensure that  universal  service can be maintained,
but still hold the total level of  assistance to a reasonable  level and,  where
possible,  reduce  barriers  to  competitive  entry  and  to  promote  efficient
investment in and operation of local service networks.

    In  February  1996 the United  States  Congress  enacted  the 1996 Act which
provides,  among other things,  that a federal-state joint board review existing
universal   service  support   mechanisms  and  recommend  changes  to  the  FCC
regulations in order that such regulations will be consistent with the universal
service   principles   in  the  1996  Act.  The  1996  Act  provides   that  all
telecommunications  carriers providing  interstate  services shall contribute to
universal service support  mechanisms.  The 1996 Act provides that only eligible
telecommunications  carriers  designated by a state shall be eligible to receive
specific   federal   universal   service   support   and   that   any   eligible
telecommunications  carrier  that  receives  such  support  shall  only use that
support to provide,  maintain and upgrade  facilities and services for universal
service in the area for which the  support is  received.  Although  the  Company
anticipates that the FCC's proposed  rulemaking and the 1996 Act may result in a
reduction of its federal support revenues,  management  believes it is premature
to assess or estimate the ultimate  impact  thereof.  There can be no assurance,
however, that such impact will not be material.

    Some  of the  Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  operate  in  states  where
traditional  cost recovery  mechanisms,  including  rate  structures,  are under
evaluation or have been  modified.  There can be no assurance  that these states
will continue to provide for cost recovery at current levels.

    Certain  revenues  determined  under the  FCC's  cost  separation  rules are
affected by the number of access lines served by a specific  telephone  company.
During 1995 the customer base of one of the Company's telephone  subsidiaries in
Michigan  increased  above 50,000 access lines,  which resulted in a decrease in
revenues of approximately  $700,000.  An additional decrease in revenues of that
subsidiary of approximately  $500,000 is expected in 1996. In addition, in early
1996 another of the Company's telephone subsidiaries reached 50,000 access lines
and  it  is  anticipated   that  revenues  for  that  subsidiary  will  decrease
approximately $1.5 million in 1996 as a result thereof.

    Most of the Company's LECs concur with the common line and traffic sensitive
tariffs  filed  by  the  NECA  and  participate  in  the  access  revenue  pools
administered by the NECA for interstate  services.  All of the long distance and
intrastate  network  access  revenues of the Company's  LECs are based on access
charges,  cost  separation  studies  or  special  settlement  arrangements.  See
"-Services."

    Certain  long  distance  carriers  continue to request  that  certain of the
Company's LECs reduce access  tariffed  rates.  There is no assurance that these
requests will not result in decreased access revenues.

    Developments Affecting Competition. The communications industry is currently
undergoing fundamental changes which may have a significant impact on the future
operations and financial performance of telecommunications companies.  Primarily
as a result of legislative and regulatory initiatives and technological changes,
competition  has been  introduced and encouraged in each sector of the telephone
industry,  including,  most recently,  local service. As a result, the number of
companies offering competitive services has increased.

    As indicated  above, in February 1996 Congress  enacted the 1996 Act, which
obligates LECs to permit  competitors to  interconnect  their  facilities to the
LEC's  network  and to take  various  other  steps  that are  designed  to lower
barriers  of  entry to  competitors.  The 1996 Act  imposes  a  general  duty to
interconnect   with  other   telecommunications   carriers  and  to  forego  the
installation  or  implementation  of network  features or functions  that do not
comply with  guidelines and standards  established  under the 1996 Act. The 1996
Act  imposes  several  duties on a LEC if it  receives a specific  request  from
another  entity which seeks to connect with or provide  services using the LEC's
network.  These  include the duties (i) not to prohibit  resale of its  service,
(ii) to provide number  portability,  (iii) to provide dialing  parity,  (iv) to
afford access to poles, ducts, conduits, and rights-of-way, and (v) to establish
reciprocal  compensation  arrangements  for the  transport  and  termination  of
traffic.  In  addition,  each  incumbent  LEC  is  obligated  to  (i)  negotiate
interconnection agreements in good faith, (ii) provide "unbundled" access to all
aspects  of the LEC's  network,  (iii)  offer  resale of its  telecommunications
services  at  wholesale  rates and (iv)  permit  competitors  to  collocate  its
physical plant on the LEC's property, or provide virtual collocation if physical
collocation is not  practicable.  Under the 1996 Act's rural  telephone  company
exemption,  all of the Company's telephone  subsidiaries will be exempt from the
foregoing  itemized  obligations  of incumbent LECs until such time as the state
regulatory  commission with  jurisdiction  over any such company receives notice
that a bona fide request has been presented to such company for interconnection,
services or network elements and such commission  determines that the request is
technically feasible, not unduly economically  burdensome and is consistent with
the  universal   service   provisions   contained  in  the  1996  Act.  Facility
interconnection  charges  are  required  to be based  on cost (to be  determined
without a  rate-of-return  or other  rate-based  proceeding)  and may  include a
reasonable  profit.  The 1996 Act provides  that each LEC, to the extent that it
provides wireline services,  shall have a statutory duty to provide equal access
and   nondiscrimination  to  interexchange   carriers  and  information  service
providers.  The 1996 Act requires the FCC to adopt  regulations to implement the
provisions  contained  therein.  Management  believes  that  the  1996  Act will
ultimately  increase  competition  in its  franchised  telephone  service areas,
although the form and degree of  competition  cannot be  ascertained  until such
time as the FCC (and, in certain instances, state regulatory commissions) adopts
implementing regulations.

    Of the 14 states in which the  Company  provides  telephone  services,  most
(including  Wisconsin,  Louisiana,  Ohio and Michigan) have taken legislative or
regulatory  steps to introduce  competition  into the local  exchange  business.
Largely as a result thereof, several well-established interexchange carriers and
cable television  companies have accelerated  their  development of networks and
facilities  designed to provide local exchange  services,  principally in larger
cities.  A cable company has requested  authorization  to provide local exchange
service in a portion of the Company's franchised service area in Ohio, and it is
anticipated  that  similar  action  may be  taken  by  others  in the  Company's
franchised  service  areas.  States  can,  if they  so  desire,  introduce  more
competition than is authorized under the 1996 Act.

    Competition from  competitive  access providers and others has increased and
is expected  to  continue  to  increase.  Competitive  access  providers,  which
originally were formed in the 1980's to provide redundancy services, now provide
access  competition  with  LECs in  most  larger  urban  areas,  principally  by
targeting  large  business  customers.   With  the  passage  of  the  1996  Act,
competitive  access  providers are expected to be active  competitors to provide
local telephone service.  Although there has been activity by competitive access
providers in certain of the Company's  operating  areas,  such activity has thus
far not significantly  affected the Company. The Company expects to increasingly
face  competition  from  competitive  access  providers in its  operating  areas
located near larger urban areas and may face  similar  competition  in its other
operating areas.

    In  addition  to  receiving   services  directly  from  competitive   access
providers, interexchange carriers and other users of toll service may seek other
means to bypass  LECs'  switching  services and local  distribution  facilities,
particularly if services are not  strategically  priced.  There are several ways
which users of toll service may bypass the Company's switching services.  First,
users may  construct,  modify or lease  facilities  to  transmit  their  traffic
directly to an interexchange carrier. Cable television companies, in particular,
may be able to modify  their  networks to  partially  or  completely  bypass the
Company's local network.  Also, certain interexchange  carriers provide services
which allow users to divert their traffic from LECs' usage-sensitive services to
their  flat-rate  services.  In  addition,   users  may  choose  to  use  mobile
communications services or, in the future, companies providing competitive local
exchange  services,  to bypass  LECs'  switching  services.  Within the past few
years, each of the three largest interexchange carriers in the United States has
acquired  or sought to acquire  interests  in mobile  communications  companies,
presumably  in part to  obtain  bypass  capabilities.  Although  certain  of the
Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  have  experienced  a loss of traffic to such
bypass,  the Company  believes  that the impact of such loss on revenues has not
been significant. The Company and the LEC industry are seeking to address bypass
principally by adopting  flexible  pricing of access services where  appropriate
and to the extent permitted by regulatory agencies. No assurance can be given as
to the ultimate outcome of these efforts.

    Currently,  cellular  communications  services  complement  traditional  LEC
services.  However, as the mobile  communications  industry continues to mature,
the  Company  anticipates  that  existing  and  emerging  mobile  communications
technologies   will   increasingly   compete  with   traditional  LEC  services.
Technological  and  regulatory  developments  in  cellular  telephone,  personal
communications  services,  digital  microwave,  coaxial cable,  fiber optics and
other  wired and  wireless  technologies  are  expected  to  further  permit the
development  of  alternatives  to  traditional  landline  services.  For further
information  on  certain  of  these  developments,  see  "Mobile  Communications
Operations - Regulation and Competition."

    In connection with the  well-publicized  convergence of  telecommunications,
cable,  video,  computer and entertainment  businesses,  several large companies
have announced plans to offer products that would significantly  enhance current
communications and data transmission services and, in some instances,  introduce
new two-way video, entertainment,  data, consumer and other multimedia services.
Other  companies with wireline  experience  (including  electric  utilities) are
expected to explore  opportunities in this market, along with wireless companies
and other emerging technology companies. For information on the effects of these
developments on the Company's cellular  operations,  see "Mobile  Communications
Operations - Regulation and Competition."

    To  the  extent  that  the  telephone  industry   increasingly   experiences
competition,   the  size  and  resources  of  each  respective   competitor  may
increasingly  influence its  prospects.  Many companies  currently  providing or
planning to provide  competitive  telecommunication  services have substantially
greater  assets and resources  than the Company,  and several are not subject to
the same  regulatory  constraints  as the  Company.  Moreover,  several of these
companies  have  completed  business  combinations  or formed joint  ventures or
alliances to better prepare themselves for competition.

    The Company  anticipates  that the  traditional  operations  of LECs will be
increasingly  impacted  by  continued  technological  developments  as  well  as
legislative and regulatory  initiatives affecting the ability of LECs to provide
new services and the  capability of cable  television  companies,  interexchange
carriers,  competitive  access  providers and others to provide  competitive LEC
services. The Company intends to actively monitor these developments, to observe
the effect of emerging  competitive trends in initial competitive markets (which
are  expected to be large urban  areas) and to continue to evaluate new business
opportunities  that may  arise  out of  future  technological,  legislative  and
regulatory developments. Although competition relating to services traditionally
provided  solely by LECs is expected to initially  affect large urban areas to a
greater extent than rural, suburban and small urban areas such as those in which
the Company  operates,  there is no assurance that these  developments  will not
have an adverse effect on the Company in the future.


                        MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS

    According to data derived from published sources,  at September 30, 1995 the
Company  was the  fifteenth  largest  cellular  telephone  company in the United
States based on the Company's owned pops. The number of pops owned by a cellular
operator does not  represent the number of users of cellular  service and is not
necessarily indicative of the number of potential subscribers. Rather, this term
is  frequently  used as a basis  for  comparing  the  size  of  cellular  system
operators.  At December 31, 1995,  the Company owned  approximately  7.6 million
pops, of which 72% were applicable to MSAs and 28% were RSA pops.

Cellular Industry

    The cellular  telephone  industry  has been in  existence  for just over ten
years in the United  States.  Although  the industry is  relatively  new, it has
grown significantly  during this period and cellular service is now available in
substantially  all  areas  of the  United  States.  According  to  the  Cellular
Telecommunications Industry Association, in June 1995 there were estimated to be
over 28 million cellular customers across the United States.

    Cellular mobile telephone service is capable of high-quality,  high-capacity
communications  to and from  vehicle-mounted  and  hand-held  radio  telephones.
Cellular  systems,  if properly  designed and equipped,  are capable of handling
thousands  of calls at any given time and are  capable of  providing  service to
tens of thousands of subscribers in a market.

    In a cellular telephone system, the licensed service area is subdivided into
geographic  areas, or cells. Each cell has its own transmitter and receiver that
communicates by radio signal with cellular  telephones  located within the cell.
Each cell is connected by a telephone circuit or microwave to a Mobile Telephone
Switching Office ("MTSO"), which in turn is connected to the worldwide telephone
network.

    Communications within a cellular system are controlled by the MTSO through a
transfer process as a cellular telephone user moves from one cell to another. In
this process,  when the signal  strength of a call  declines to a  predetermined
level,  the MTSO  determines  if the signal  strength  from an adjacent  cell is
greater and, if so,  transfers  the call to the adjacent  cell.  Software  which
facilitates the transfer  between  adjacent cells of different  cellular systems
using equipment of different manufacturers has been implemented by the Company.

    Cellular  telephone  systems have high  subscriber  capacity  because of the
substantial frequency spectrum allocated to these systems by the FCC and because
frequencies  can be reused  throughout the system.  Frequency  reuse is possible
because  the  transmission  power of cell site  equipment  and  mobile  units is
relatively low.  Therefore,  signals on the same channel will not interfere with
each other if they are  transmitted  in cells that are  sufficiently  far apart.
Reuse  multiplies the capacity of channels  available to the system operator and
thereby increases the telephone calling capacity.

    Until recently,  substantially  all radio  transmissions of cellular systems
were  conducted on an analog  basis.  Technological  developments  involving the
application of digital radio  technology  offer certain  advantages  over analog
technologies, including expanding the capacity of mobile communications systems,
improving voice clarity, permitting the introduction of new services, and making
such  systems  more  private.  Providers of certain  services  competitive  with
cellular are currently  incorporating  digital technology into their operations,
and are  expected to continue to do so in the future.  In recent  years  certain
cellular  carriers have begun to install  digital  cellular  voice  transmission
facilities    in    certain    larger    markets.     See    "-Regulation    and
Competition-Developments Affecting Mobile Communications Competition."

Construction and Maintenance

    The construction  and maintenance of cellular systems is capital  intensive.
Although all of the Company's MSA and RSA systems are  operational,  the Company
has  continued  to add  cell  sites to  increase  coverage,  provide  additional
capacity and improve the quality of these systems. In 1995 the Company completed
construction of 41 cell sites in markets operated by the Company.

    During  the last few years the  Company  upgraded  certain  portions  of its
cellular systems to be capable of providing  digital service in the future;  the
Company  currently plans to implement  digital service in certain markets during
1996 using the TDMA digital  standard.  The Company will continue to monitor the
development  and  implementation  of this  technology to determine  when it will
become  beneficial  for  the  Company  to  install  digital  voice  transmission
facilities  in other  markets.  See  "-Regulation  and  Competition-Developments
Affecting Mobile Communications Competition." Total capital expenditures related
to  majority-owned  cellular systems operated by the Company were  approximately
$42 million in 1995 and are anticipated to be approximately $61 million in 1996.

Strategy

    The  Company's  business  development  strategy for its  cellular  telephone
operations   is  to  secure   operating   control  of  service  areas  that  are
geographically clustered. Clustered cellular systems aid the Company's marketing
efforts and provide various operating and service advantages.  Approximately 51%
of the  Company's  pops in  markets  operated  by the  Company  are in a single,
contiguous cluster of eight MSAs and seven RSAs in Michigan;  another 19% are in
a  cluster  of five MSAs and  seven  RSAs in  northern  and  central  Louisiana,
southern Arkansas and eastern Texas. See "-The Company's Cellular Interests."

    Another component of the Company's strategy for cellular operations includes
capturing  revenues from roaming  service.  Roaming service revenues are derived
from calls made in one cellular  service area by subscribers  from other service
areas.  Roaming service is made possible by technical  standards  requiring that
cellular telephones be functionally  compatible with the cellular systems in all
United States market areas. The Company charges premium rates (compared to rates
charged  to the  Company's  customers)  for  roaming  service  provided  to most
non-Company  customers.  The Company's  Michigan cellular  properties  include a
significant  portion of the  interstate  highway  corridor  between  Chicago and
Detroit;  its Louisiana properties include an east-west interstate highway and a
north-south interstate highway which intersect in its Louisiana cellular service
area; and its Mississippi  properties include two east-west interstate highways,
one of which  intersects  with a  north-south  interstate  highway  in  Jackson,
Mississippi.

Marketing

    The Company  markets its  cellular  services  through  several  distribution
channels,  including  independent  agents,  its  direct  sales  force and retail
outlets  owned by the Company and others.  The  Company's  cellular  sales force
consists of almost 300 independent agents, which generate a significant majority
of the  Company's  new  subscribers,  and over 200 sales  employees.  Each sales
employee and independent agent solicits cellular  customers  exclusively for the
Company.  Company sales  employees are  compensated by salary and commission and
independent  sales  agents are paid  commissions.  The  Company  advertises  its
services  through various means,  including  direct mail,  billboard,  magazine,
radio, television and newspaper advertisements.

    The sales and marketing costs of obtaining new subscribers are  substantial.
The  Company  not only  has to pay for  advertising,  but  also  incurs a direct
expense for most new subscribers,  either in the form of a commission payment to
an agent or a  salary/incentive  payment to a direct sales person.  In addition,
the Company discounts the cost of cellular telephone equipment, and periodically
runs  promotions  which  provide  some amount of initial  activation,  access or
airtime free to new subscribers. Although the Company has continued to lower the
cost of acquisition  per subscriber,  it remains one of the largest  expenses in
conducting the Company's cellular operations.

    During  1994  AT&T  Corp.   completed  its  acquisition  of  McCaw  Cellular
Communications,  Inc., the largest cellular  provider in the United States,  and
has begun to market  McCaw's  service  under the AT&T brand  name.  The  Company
competes  with AT&T in four of the MSAs it operates  and several of its operated
RSAs.

Services, Customers and System Usage

    There are a number of different types of cellular  telephones,  all of which
are currently  compatible with cellular systems nationwide.  The Company sells a
full range of  vehicle-mounted,  transportable,  and hand-held portable cellular
telephones.  Features  offered in the  cellular  telephones  sold by the Company
include hands-free calling, repeat dialing, horn alert and others.

    The Company charges its  subscribers for access to its systems,  for minutes
of use and for enhanced services,  such as voice mail. A subscriber may purchase
certain of these  services  separately  or may purchase  rate plans which bundle
these  services in  different  ways and are  designed to fit  different  calling
patterns.  While the Company  historically  has typically  charged its customers
separately  for  custom-calling  features,  air time in excess  of the  packaged
amount,  and toll calls,  recently  it has begun to offer  plans  which  include
features such as unlimited toll calls and unlimited  weekend  calling in certain
calling  areas.   Custom-calling   features  provided  by  the  Company  include
call-forwarding,  call-waiting,  three-way calling and no-answer  transfer.  The
Company offers voice message service in many of its markets. This service, which
functions like a sophisticated  answering  machine,  allows customers to receive
messages from callers when they are not available to take calls.

     Cellular  customers come from a wide range of  occupations.  They typically
include a large proportion of individuals who work outside of their office, such
as employees in the construction, real estate, wholesale and retail distribution
businesses,  and professionals.  More customers are selecting portable and other
transportable  cellular  telephones as these units become more compact and fully
featured,  as well as more  attractively  priced. It is anticipated that average
revenue per customer may continue to decline (i) as market penetration increases
and  additional  lower usage  customers are  activated  and (ii) as  competitive
pressures intensify and place additional pressure on rates. See "-Regulation and
Competition."

    Most  cellular  systems  allow a  customer  to place or  receive a call in a
cellular service area away from the customer's home market area. The Company has
entered into  "roaming  agreements"  with  operators of other  cellular  systems
covering  virtually all markets in the United States;  such agreements offer the
Company's  customers the opportunity to roam in these markets.  Also, a customer
of a  participating  non-Company  system  traveling in a market  operated by the
Company where this arrangement is in effect is able to automatically  make calls
on the Company's system.  The charge to a non-Company  customer for this service
is typically at premium  rates,  and is billed by the Company to the  customer's
home system, which then bills the customer. Occasionally, the Company will enter
into reciprocal  agreements with other cellular carriers to settle roaming usage
at a rate  different  from  such  premium  rates.  In some  instances,  based on
competitive  factors and financial  considerations,  the Company charges a lower
amount to its  customers  than the  amount  actually  charged  by the  servicing
cellular carrier for roaming.  The Company  anticipates that competitive factors
and  industry  consolidation  may place  further  pressure on  charging  premium
roaming rates. For additional information on roaming revenue, see "-Strategy."

    Roamer fraud remains a cellular industry  problem.  Roamer fraud occurs when
cellular  telephone  equipment is  programmed  to conceal the true  identity and
location  of the user.  While the  Company  and the  industry  have  implemented
extensive fraud control  processes,  they have not been able to eliminate roamer
fraud.

    During recent years, the Company's cellular subsidiaries  experienced strong
subscriber  growth in the fourth  quarter,  primarily  due to increased  holiday
season sales. According to the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association,
industry-wide  cellular sales have been seasonally strong in the fourth calendar
quarter for the past several years.

    The following  table  summarizes,  among other things,  certain  information
about the Company's customers and market penetration:


The Company's Cellular Interests

      The Company obtained the right to provide cellular service through (i) the
FCC's licensing  process described below,  under which it received  interests in
wireline licenses, and (ii) its acquisition program, under which it has acquired
interests in both wireline and non-wireline licenses. The table below sets forth
certain  information  with respect to the interests in cellular systems that the
Company owned as of December 31, 1995:


Operations

    A substantial number of the cellular systems in MSAs operated by the Company
are owned by limited  partnerships  in which the  Company  is a general  partner
("MSA  Partnerships").  Most of these  partnerships  are governed by partnership
agreements  with  similar  terms,  including,   among  other  things,  customary
provisions concerning capital contributions,  sharing of profits and losses, and
dissolution  and  termination  of the  partnership.  Most of  these  partnership
agreements vest complete operational control of the partnership with the general
partner.  The general partner  typically has the power to manage,  supervise and
conduct  the  affairs of the  partnership,  make all  decisions  appropriate  in
connection with the business purposes of the partnership,  and incur obligations
and execute  agreements on behalf of the  partnership.  The general partner also
may make  decisions  regarding  the time and  amount of cash  contributions  and
distributions,  and the nature,  timing and extent of construction,  without the
consent of the other partners.  The Company owns more than 50% of all of the MSA
Partnerships.

    A substantial number of the cellular systems in RSAs operated by the Company
are also owned by limited or general partnerships in which the Company is either
the general or managing partner (the "RSA Partnerships"). These partnerships are
governed by partnership agreements with varying terms and provisions. In many of
these partnerships,  the noncontrolling partners have the right to vote on major
issues  such  as  the  annual  budget  and  system  design.  In a few  of  these
partnerships,  the Company's  management position is for a limited term (similar
to a management  contract) and the other  partners in the  partnership  have the
right to change managers,  with or without cause. The Company owns less than 50%
of some of the RSA Partnerships.

    The  partnership   agreements  for  both  the  MSA   Partnerships   and  RSA
Partnerships generally contain provisions granting all partners a right of first
refusal in the event a partner desires to transfer a partnership interest.  This
restriction on transfer can make these  partnership  interests more difficult to
sell to a third party.

Revenue

    The following table reflects the major revenue  categories for the Company's
mobile  communications  operations  as a  percentage  of  mobile  communications
operating revenues in 1995, 1994 and 1993.

                                             1995           1994          1993
                                            ----------------------------------
Cellular access fees, toll
 revenues and equipment sales                82.3%          82.0          80.5
Cellular roaming                             17.7           16.1          14.5
Paging services  (Note)                         -            1.9           5.0
                                            ----------------------------------
                                            100.0%         100.0         100.0
                                            ==================================

Note:   The Company's paging operations were sold in October 1994.

    For further information on these revenue categories, see "-Services, 
Customers and System Usage."

Regulation And Competition

    As discussed  below,  the FCC and various state public  utility  commissions
regulate,   among  other  things,   the  licensing,   construction,   operation,
interconnection  arrangements,   sale  and  acquisition  of  cellular  telephone
systems.

    Cellular  Licensing  Process.  During the 1980's and early  1990's,  the FCC
awarded two licenses to provide cellular  service in each market.  Each licensee
is required to provide service to a designated portion of the area or population
in its licensed area as a condition to maintaining that license.  Initially, one
license was reserved  for  companies  offering  local  telephone  service in the
market  (the  wireline   carrier)  and  one  license  was  available  for  firms
unaffiliated with the local telephone company (the non-wireline carrier).  Since
mid-1986,  the FCC has  permitted  telephone  companies or their  affiliates  to
acquire  control of  non-wireline  licenses in markets in which they do not hold
interests in the wireline license.

    The  completion  of  acquisitions  involving  the  transfer  of control of a
cellular  system  requires prior FCC approval and, in certain cases,  receipt of
other federal and state regulatory approvals. Acquisitions of minority interests
generally do not require FCC  approval.  Whenever FCC approval is required,  any
interested  party may file a petition  to dismiss  or deny the  application  for
approval of the proposed transfer.

    Initial  operating  licenses  were  granted  for  ten-year  periods  and are
renewable upon application to the FCC for periods of ten years.  Licenses may be
revoked  and  license  renewal  applications  denied  for  cause.  There  may be
competition  for licenses upon the expiration of the initial  ten-year terms and
there is no  assurance  that any license  will be renewed,  although the FCC has
issued a decision that grants a renewal  expectancy  during the license  renewal
period to  incumbent  licensees  that  substantially  comply  with the terms and
conditions  of their  cellular  authorizations  and the FCC's  regulations.  The
licenses  for the MSA markets  operated by the Company  were  initially  granted
between 1984 and 1987,  and licenses for operated  RSAs were  initially  granted
between 1989 and 1991. The Company intends to file renewal  applications for its
licenses which will otherwise expire in 1996.

    Five years after  initial  operating  licenses are granted,  unserved  areas
within  markets  previously  granted  to  licensees  may be  applied  for by any
qualified  party.  The FCC has rules that govern the  procedures  for filing and
granting such applications and has established requirements for constructing and
operating  systems in such areas.  The Company has not lost, and does not expect
to lose, any  significant  market areas as a result of not providing  service to
such areas. In addition to regulation by the FCC,  cellular  systems are subject
to certain Federal Aviation  Administration tower height regulations  concerning
the siting and construction of cellular transmitter towers and antennas.

    Cellular  operators  are also subject to state and local  regulation in some
instances.   Although  the  FCC  has  pre-empted  the  states  from   exercising
jurisdiction  in  the  areas  of  licensing,   technical  standards  and  market
structure,  certain  states  require  cellular  operators  to be  certified.  In
addition,  some  state  authorities  regulate  certain  aspects  of  a  cellular
operator's  business,  including certain aspects of pricing,  the resale of long
distance  service to its customers,  the technical  arrangements and charges for
interconnection  with the  landline  network,  and the  transfer of interests in
cellular  systems.  The siting and  construction of the cellular  facilities may
also be subject to state or local zoning, land use and other local regulations.

    Competition  between  cellular  providers  in  each  market  is  conducted
principally  on the basis of services and  enhancements  offered,  the technical
quality  and  coverage of the system,  quality  and  responsiveness  of customer
service,  and price.  Competition may be intense. For a listing of the Company's
competitors in cellular  markets  operated by the Company,  see "- The Company's
Cellular Interests." Under applicable law, the Company is required to permit the
reselling  of its  services.  In certain  larger  markets and in certain  market
segments,   competition  from  resellers  may  be  significant.  There  is  also
substantial  competition for agents.  Certain of the Company's  competitors have
substantially greater assets and resources than the Company.

    Developments  Affecting Mobile Communications  Competition.  Continued and
rapid  technological   advances  in  the  communications   field,  coupled  with
legislative  and regulatory  uncertainty,  make it impossible to (i) predict the
extent of future competition to cellular systems,  (ii) determine which emerging
technologies  pose  the  most  viable  alternatives  to the  Company's  cellular
operations,  or (iii)  list each  development  that may  ultimately  impact  the
Company's cellular operations.  No assurance can be given that current or future
technological  advances,  or legislative or regulatory changes,  will not impact
the Company's cellular operations.

    Several recent FCC initiatives have resulted in the allocation of additional
radio  spectrum or the issuance of  experimental  licenses  for emerging  mobile
communications  technologies  that will or may be competitive with the Company's
cellular and telephone  operations,  including personal  communication  services
("PCS"). Although there is no universally recognized definition of PCS, the term
is  generally  used to refer to wireless  services  to be provided by  licensees
operating in the 1850 MHz to 1990 MHz radio frequency band using  microcells and
high-capacity  digital  technology.  When offered  commercially,  PCS technology
currently  under  development  may permit PCS operators to offer  wireless data,
image and multimedia services.  The extent to which PCS will offer services that
are  complementary  or competitive with cellular  services is uncertain,  and is
expected  to be  influenced  by  continuing  developments  in PCS  and  cellular
technologies and by FCC regulation.

    The FCC has  adopted  rules to auction up to six PCS  licenses  per  market.
Under these rules, two 30 MHz frequency blocks have been awarded for each of the
51 Rand McNally Major Trading Areas ("MTAs"),  while one 30 MHz and three 10 MHz
frequency  blocks will be awarded for each of the 493 Rand McNally Basic Trading
Areas ("BTAs").  Subject to certain exceptions, the Company will be permitted to
freely pursue PCS licenses outside its cellular markets,  but will be limited to
acquiring  only one 10 MHz block in licensed areas where it controls more than a
20% interest in a cellular  licensee and serves more than 10% of the  population
within the PCS  licensed  area.  The  Company did not  participate  in the FCC's
auction of the MTA  licenses.  During 1995 the Company  invested  $20 million in
exchange for a minority  equity  interest in an entity formed for the purpose of
participating in the FCC's current auction, which began in December 1995, of the
30 MHz PCS license for each BTA. The FCC  anticipates  auctioning  the final BTA
licenses later in 1996. PCS service is commercially available in Washington D.C.
and  Baltimore  and is expected to be  commercially  available in certain  other
areas in 1996.

    In addition to PCS, users and potential  users of cellular  systems may find
their   communication   needs   satisfied  by  other   current  and   developing
technologies,  several  of which may enjoy  potential  operational  and  service
advantages  through  their  use  of  digital  technology.   The  FCC  previously
authorized  the licensees of certain  specialized  mobile radio service  ("SMR")
systems (which  historically  have generally been used by taxicabs and tow truck
operators) to configure  their  systems so as to operate in a manner  similar to
cellular  systems.  The Company  believes  that SMR systems are  operating  in a
majority of its cellular markets.  Certain  well-established  SMR providers have
announced their intention to create a nationwide  digital mobile  communications
system to compete with cellular systems.  Other similar  communication  services
which have the technical capability to handle mobile telephone calls may provide
competition  in certain  markets,  although  these  services  currently lack the
subscriber capacity of cellular systems.  One-way paging or beeper services that
feature  voice  message and data  display as well as tones may be  adequate  for
potential  subscribers  who do not need to  communicate  with the caller.  Other
two-way  mobile  services may also be competitive  with the Company's  services,
including two-way paging.

    Mobile satellite  systems,  in which  transmissions are between mobile units
and satellites,  are currently in operation. No assurance can be given that such
systems  will not  ultimately  be  successful  in  obtaining  market  share from
cellular systems which communicate directly to land-based stations. However, the
Company has entered into an agreement with a satellite  system provider  whereby
the satellite  system will  supplement the Company's  cellular system in certain
areas.

    As  described   further  under  "Telephone   Operations  -  Regulation  and
Competition,"   in   connection   with  the   well-publicized   convergence   of
telecommunications, cable, video, computer and entertainment businesses, several
large  companies  have  recently  announced  plans to offer  products that would
significantly  enhance current  communications and data  transmissions  services
and, in some instances,  introduce new services.  Although much of the resulting
competition is expected to center on wireline  services,  it is anticipated that
these  developments may also increase  competition in the mobile  communications
industry.  Several  companies  are  currently  developing  and  marketing  small
hand-held devices that provide digital wireless data transmission  services that
compete  with  similar  analog  services  currently  being  provided by cellular
companies.

    Recently,  several large cellular providers have merged with other companies
or formed joint  ventures.  The resulting  entities have  substantially  greater
assets and resources than the Company.  Several of these joint  ventures  pooled
their resources to purchase PCS licenses  awarded in the MTA auctions which were
completed in 1995 and to develop the associated  markets.  For more information,
see "-Marketing."

    Although it is uncertain how PCS, SMR, mobile  satellites and other emerging
technologies will ultimately affect the Company,  they are not anticipated to be
significant  sources of competition  in the Company's  markets in the near term.
Moreover,  management believes that equipping its current cellular networks with
digital  enhancements and applying new microcellular  technologies should permit
its  cellular  systems  to  provide   services   comparable  with  the  emerging
technologies described above, although no assurances can be given that this will
happen or that  future  technological  advances  or  legislative  or  regulatory
changes will not create additional sources of competition.

Certain Considerations Regarding Cellular Telephone Operations

    The cellular  industry has a relatively  limited operating history and there
continues to be uncertainty regarding its future. Among other factors,  there is
uncertainty regarding (i) the continued growth in the number of customers,  (ii)
the usage and pricing of cellular  services,  particularly as market penetration
increases and lower-usage  customers subscribe for service,  (iii) the number of
customers who will terminate  service each month, and (iv) the impact of changes
in technology,  regulation, legislation and competition, any of which could have
a material adverse effect on the Company. See "- Regulation and Competition."

    The market value of cellular interests is frequently determined on the basis
of the  number  of pops  owned  by a  cellular  provider.  The  population  of a
particular  cellular  market,  however,  does  not  necessarily  bear  a  direct
relationship  to the number of  subscribers or the revenues that may be realized
from the operation of the related  cellular  system.  The future market value of
the Company's cellular interests will depend on, among other things, the success
of its cellular operations.


                                OTHER OPERATIONS

    The Company also provides long distance,  operator and interactive  services
in certain local and regional  markets,  as well as certain printing and related
services,  and has recently entered the competitive access business. The results
of these  operations,  which accounted for 4.4% and 1.2%,  respectively,  of the
Company's  consolidated revenues and operating income during 1995, are reflected
for financial  reporting purposes in the "Other operations" section in operating
income.

    Long  Distance.  At December 31, 1995,  the Company  provided  long distance
services in certain of its local  exchange  markets to nearly 47,000  customers,
which  represented  a 69%  increase  from the number of  customers  served as of
January 1, 1995.  In January  1996 the Company  began  marketing  long  distance
service in all of its equal access telephone operating areas and, during January
1996 and February  1996,  added  29,000 long  distance  customers.  Although the
Company owns and operates long distance switches in LaCrosse,  Wisconsin and San
Marcos,  Texas,  it  anticipates  that most of its future long distance  service
revenues   will  be  provided  by  reselling   service   purchased   from  other
facilities-based  long distance  providers.  The Company  intends to continue to
aggressively  expand its long distance business,  principally  through reselling
arrangements.

    Competitive   access.  The  Company's   competitive  access  subsidiary  has
constructed  an 86-mile  fiber optic  network  which allows the Company to offer
certain  competitive  access services in Fort Worth and Arlington,  Texas, along
with a portion of downtown  Dallas.  The  subsidiary,  which has also obtained a
franchise to provide services in Austin, Texas and is currently constructing its
network in the Austin  market,  provides  enhanced data  transmission  services,
transport  to local area  network  users,  and central  office  interconnection,
primarily for large business  customers.  The subsidiary also provides transport
for  origination  and  termination  services for long  distance  companies.  The
Company plans to continue to pursue the  development of its  competitive  access
business in Texas and expects to incur operating  losses in such business during
the next few years.

    Other.  The  Company  provides 0+ and 0-  operator  services  for retail and
wholesale  markets.  The retail market consists primarily of the hospitality and
payphone  industries.   The  wholesale  market  consists  of  other  independent
telephone companies and interexchange carriers.

    The  Company  has  a   subsidiary   which   provides   audiotext   services,
fax-on-demand  services,  and interactive  marketing  surveys and research.  The
advertising and consumer  information provided through the audiotext services is
supplied by the businesses  that advertise.  The Company has another  subsidiary
that provides printing,  database  management and direct mail services which, in
conjunction  with the subsidiary that provides  marketing  surveys and research,
can provide a complete  market  research  package to customers.  The Company has
signed a preliminary  agreement  with another  company  providing  complementary
services,  pursuant to which the Company would combine most of the operations of
these two subsidiaries  with the operations of the other company in exchange for
an 80% equity interest in the newly created company.

    Certain  service  subsidiaries  of  the  company  provide  installation  and
maintenance  services,  materials and supplies,  and  managerial,  technical and
accounting  services  to  the  telephone  and  mobile  communications  operating
subsidiaries.  In addition,  Century provides and bills  management  services to
subsidiaries and in certain instances makes interest bearing advances to finance
construction  of plant  and  purchases  of  equipment.  These  transactions  are
recorded by the Company's regulated telephone  subsidiaries at their cost to the
extent permitted by regulatory authorities.  Intercompany profit on transactions
with  regulated  affiliates is limited to a reasonable  return on investment and
has not  been  eliminated  in  connection  with  consolidating  the  results  of
operations  of  Century  and  its  subsidiaries.  Such  intercompany  profit  is
reflected in the "Other operations" section in operating income.


                                  OTHER MATTERS

      The Company has certain obligations based on federal, state and local laws
relating to the protection of the environment.  Costs of compliance through 1995
have not been  material and the Company  currently has no reason to believe that
such costs will become material.

      For additional  information  concerning the business and properties of the
Company,  see  notes 2, 5, 11,  14 and 16 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements set forth in Item 8 elsewhere herein.

Item 2.        Properties.

      The Company's  properties  consist  principally  of (i)  telephone  lines,
central office equipment,  telephone instruments and related equipment, and land
and building  related to telephone  operations  and (ii) switching and cell site
equipment related to cellular telephone operations. As of December 31, 1995, the
Company's  gross  property,  plant and equipment of  approximately  $1.5 billion
consisted of the following:

Telephone:
      Cable and wire.............................................     44.1%
      Central office equipment...................................     23.8
      General support............................................      6.6
      Information origination/termination equipment..............      1.6
      Construction in progress...................................      4.0
      Other......................................................       .4
                                                                     -----
                                                                      80.5
Mobile Communications............................................     12.8
Other ...........................................................      6.7
                                                                     -----
                                                                     100.0%
                                                                     =====
      "Cable and wire" facilities  consist  primarily of buried cable and aerial
cable,  poles,  wire,  conduit and drops.  "Central office  equipment"  consists
primarily of switching  equipment,  circuit  equipment  and related  facilities.
"General support" consists  primarily of land,  buildings,  tools,  furnishings,
fixtures,     motor     vehicles     and    work     equipment.     "Information
origination/termination  equipment"  consists  primarily  of  premise  equipment
(private   branch   exchanges  and   telephones)   for  official   company  use.
"Construction in progress"  includes  property of the foregoing  categories that
has not been placed in service because it is still under construction.

      Most of the properties of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are subject
to mortgages securing the debt of such companies. The Company owns substantially
all of the central office buildings, local administrative buildings, warehouses,
and storage facilities used in its telephone operations. The Company leases most
of the offices used in its cellular operations; certain of its transmitter sites
are leased while others are owned by the Company. For further information on the
location  and type of the  Company's  properties,  see the  descriptions  of the
Company's telephone and mobile communications operations in Item 1.

Item 3.        Legal Proceedings.

      From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation incidental to its
business,  including administrative hearings of state public utility commissions
relating  primarily  to  rate  making,  actions  relating  to  employee  claims,
occasional grievance hearings before labor regulatory agencies and miscellaneous
third party tort actions. Currently, there are no material legal proceedings.

Item 4.        Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

      Not applicable.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

      Information  concerning  Executive Officers,  set forth at Item 10 in Part
III hereof, is incorporated in Part I of this Report by reference.

                                     PART II

Item 5.        Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
               Matters.

      Century's  common  stock is listed on the New York Stock  Exchange  and is
traded  under the symbol CTL.  The  following  table sets forth the high and low
sale  prices,  along  with the  quarterly  dividends,  for each of the  quarters
indicated:

                                            Sale prices          
                                        ------------------       Dividend per
                                        High           Low       common share
                                        ----           ---       ------------
1994:
      First quarter                 $  27-7/8         21-7/8        .08
      Second quarter                $  27-5/8         22-5/8        .08
      Third quarter                 $  30-1/2         25            .08
      Fourth quarter                $  32-1/4         27-1/2        .08

1995:
      First quarter                 $  33-1/8         29            .0825
      Second quarter                $  31-3/4         27-1/2        .0825
      Third quarter                 $  32-1/8         27            .0825
      Fourth quarter                $  32-1/8         27-1/2        .0825

      Common stock dividends during 1994 and 1995 were paid each quarter.  As of
February 29, 1996,  there were  approximately  6,900  stockholders  of record of
Century's common stock.

Item 6.        Selected Financial Data.

      The following table presents certain selected consolidated  financial data
as of and for each of the years ended in the five-year period ended December 31,
1995:

Selected Income Statement Data


Selected Balance Sheet Data


      The following table presents certain selected consolidated  operating data
as of the end of each of the years in the  five-year  period ended  December 31,
1995:

                                            Year ended December 31,
                              -------------------------------------------------
                                1995       1994       1993      1992      1991
                              -------------------------------------------------

Telephone access lines        480,757    454,963    434,691   397,300   314,819
Cellular units in service
    in majority-owned
    markets                   290,075    211,710    116,484    73,084    51,083

    See Items 1 and 2 in Part I and  notes 1, 5 and 14 of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements  set  forth  in Item 8  elsewhere  herein  for  additional
information.



Item 7.        Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
               Results of Operations

                              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

      The  1995  net  income  of  Century   Telephone   Enterprises,   Inc.  and
subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  increased to $114.8  million from $100.2 million
during 1994 and $69.0 million during 1993.  Fully diluted earnings per share for
1995  increased  to $1.95 from $1.80  during  1994 and $1.32  during  1993.  The
average  number of fully diluted shares  outstanding  increased 1.7% and 4.0% in
1995 and 1994,  respectively,  as a result of shares issued in  connection  with
acquisitions  and the  Company's  dividend  reinvestment,  incentive and benefit
plans.

      The Company is a regional diversified  telecommunications  company that is
primarily  engaged in  providing  traditional  telephone  services  and cellular
mobile  telephone  services.  The  Company's  1995  operating  income was $202.9
million,  an increase of $30.1  million  (17.4%) over 1994  operating  income of
$172.8  million.  During 1995 the operating  income of the  Company's  telephone
segment and its mobile communications  segment increased $5.5 million (4.0%) and
$25.6 million (81.3%),  respectively,  compared to 1994. The Company's operating
income during 1993 was $128.0 million.


    The  operating  income of the  telephone  segment  includes  the  results of
operations of Century Telephone of San Marcos, Inc. ("San Marcos") subsequent to
its  acquisition in April 1993. See Note 14 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements for additional information.

    The Company's mobile communications operations reflect the operations of the
cellular entities in which the Company has a majority  interest.  For additional
information  concerning (i) the minority interest owners' share of the income of
such entities and (ii) the Company's share of earnings from cellular entities in
which it has less than a majority  interest (which is not included in the mobile
communications  segment),  see Mobile Communications  Operations.  The operating
income of the mobile  communications  segment includes the results of operations
of Celutel, Inc. ("Celutel") subsequent to its acquisition in February 1994, and
the Company's  paging  operations prior to their sale in October 1994. See Notes
11  and  14  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  additional
information.

    In  addition to the San Marcos and  Celutel  acquisitions,  during the three
years ended December 31, 1995 the Company has  consummated  the  acquisitions of
various, smaller, telephone and cellular operations.

    Based on its review of publicly available data, the Company believes that it
has the second highest ratio of owned cellular pops (the  population of licensed
cellular  telephone  markets  multiplied by the Company's  proportionate  equity
interests in the licensed operators thereof) to telephone access lines among the
20 largest  telephone  companies  (based on access lines) in the United  States.
Accordingly,  the Company anticipates that its mobile communications  operations
will continue to increasingly  influence the Company's overall operations as the
cellular  industry  continues to grow.  Contributions to operating  revenues and
operating income by the Company's telephone,  mobile  communications,  and other
operations  for each of the years in the  three-year  period ended  December 31,
1995 were as follows:


                                                 1995        1994      1993
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Operating revenues
   Telephone operations                          65.0%       69.3      76.9
   Mobile Communications operations              30.6%       26.7      18.6
   Other operations                               4.4%        4.0       4.5
Operating income
   Telephone operations                          70.7%       79.9      89.8
   Mobile Communications operations              28.1%       18.2       7.7
   Other operations                               1.2%        1.9       2.5
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


TELEPHONE OPERATIONS


Year ended December 31,                         1995       1994      1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  (Dollars in thousands)
Operating revenues
   Local service                             $111,629    100,020    88,704
   Network access and long distance           258,462    243,759   217,055
   Other                                       49,151     47,486    44,571
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              419,242    391,265   350,330
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating expenses
   Plant operations                            86,789     84,117    80,578
   Customer operations                         38,768     35,746    32,225
   Corporate and other                         63,834     60,235    57,450
   Depreciation and amortization               86,324     73,175    65,175
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              275,715    253,273   235,428
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                             $143,527    137,992   114,902
==========================================================================

    The Company's  telephone  operations  are  conducted in rural,  suburban and
small  urban  communities  in 14  states.  Approximately  80% of  the  Company's
telephone access lines are in Wisconsin, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio and Arkansas.

Local Service Revenues

    Local  service  revenues  are derived from the  provision of local  exchange
telephone services in the Company's  franchised service areas. The $11.6 million
increase in such  revenues in 1995  included $4.5 million due to the increase in
the number of customer access lines, $3.0 million from increased rates for basic
services and $2.0 million due to  acquisitions.  Acquisitions  contributed  $1.2
million to the 1994 increase of $11.3 million; $4.5 million of the 1994 increase
was due to the increase in access  lines;  and $3.8 million was due to increased
rates  for  basic  services.  The  remaining  increases  in 1995 and  1994  were
primarily due to the provision of custom calling features.  Internal access line
growth during 1995, 1994 and 1993 was 4.4%, 4.1% and 3.6%, respectively.

Network Access and Long Distance Revenues

    Network  access and long  distance  revenues  primarily  relate to  services
provided to interexchange  carriers (long distance  carriers) in connection with
the  completion  of  long  distance  telephone  calls.  Most  of  the  Company's
interstate  network access revenues are received  through  pooling  arrangements
administered by the National Exchange Carrier Association ("NECA") based on cost
separation  studies.  The NECA receives access charges billed by the Company and
other participating local exchange carriers ("LECs") to interstate long distance
carriers and other LEC customers for their use of the local exchange  network to
complete long distance  calls.  These charges to the long distance  carriers and
other LEC  customers  are based on tariffed  access rates filed with the Federal
Communications Commission ("FCC") by the NECA on behalf of the Company and other
participating  LECs.  Long distance and intrastate  network access  revenues are
based  on  access  rates,   cost  separation   studies  or  special   settlement
arrangements with intrastate long distance carriers.

    Network access and long distance revenues  increased $14.7 million (6.0%) in
1995 and $26.7 million (12.3%) in 1994 due to the following factors:



    The  change  in  other,  net in 1995 and 1994  included  reductions  of $1.7
million and $1.9  million,  respectively,  in  intrastate  high-cost  assistance
revenues as a result of the phase-out of the Wisconsin  state support fund;  the
loss of such  revenues  was  offset by an  increase  in local  rates in the same
jurisdictions.  Included in other, net in 1995 was approximately $2.5 million of
revenue associated with a change in the method used to calculate factors applied
in the network access revenue billing  process.  Included in other,  net in 1994
was a reduction of $2.3  million in certain  settlements  received  from a large
local exchange operating company by the Company's Louisiana subsidiaries.

Other Revenues

    Other  revenues  include   revenues   related  to  (i)  leasing,   selling,
installing,   maintaining  and  repairing  customer  premise  telecommunications
equipment and wiring ("CPE  services"),  (ii)  providing  billing and collection
services for interexchange  carriers,  (iii) leasing network facilities and (iv)
participating  in the  publication  of  local  directories.  Revenues  from  CPE
services and acquisitions  contributed $1.9 million and $606,000,  respectively,
to the increase in other revenues in 1995. Such increases were partially  offset
by a decrease  in billing  and  collection  revenues  of  $896,000.  Billing and
collection  revenues are expected to continue to decrease in 1996.  The increase
in other  revenues  during 1994 was primarily due to a $1.2 million  increase in
directory  advertising  revenues  and a $1.1  million  increase  in billing  and
collection revenues.

Operating Expenses

    Plant operations expenses during 1995 and 1994 increased $2.7 million (3.2%)
and $3.5  million  (4.4%),  respectively.  Operating  expenses  attributable  to
acquisitions  contributed  $1.8 million to the 1995 increase and $2.3 million to
the 1994 increase.  The remainder of the 1995 increase was due to an increase in
general  operating  expenses.  A $1.2 million  increase in  salaries,  wages and
benefits  during  1994  was  partially   offset  by  a  $531,000   reduction  in
postemployment benefit expense.

    Expenses  attributable  to  acquisitions  contributed  $2.7 million and $2.1
million,  respectively, to the 1995 increase of $6.6 million (6.9%) and the 1994
increase of $6.3 million  (7.0%) in customer  operations,  corporate,  and other
expenses.  Ad valorem taxes  increased  $1.2 million in 1995 and $1.0 million in
1994 due to the increases in plant in service.  During 1995  marketing  expenses
increased  $2.1  million.  The  remainder  of the 1994  increase  resulted  from
increases in other general operating expenses.

    Depreciation  and  amortization  increased  $13.1  million  (18.0%) and $8.0
million (12.3%) in 1995 and 1994,  respectively.  Approximately $1.0 million and
$2.4  million  of the  increases  in 1995 and  1994,  respectively,  were due to
acquisitions. Depreciation expense included nonrecurring additional depreciation
charges  approved by regulators in certain  jurisdictions  which aggregated $6.5
million in 1995 and $3.3  million in 1993.  In  addition,  the Company  obtained
higher recurring  depreciation  rates for certain  subsidiaries  during 1994 and
1993. The first-year effects of the higher rates were approximately $5.6 million
in 1994 and $1.7 million in 1993. The remaining  increases in  depreciation  and
amortization  were due to  higher  levels  of plant in  service.  The  composite
depreciation rate for regulated telephone  properties,  including the additional
depreciation charges, was 7.5% for 1995 and 7.1% for 1994 and 1993.

Other

    For additional  information  regarding certain matters that have impacted or
may impact the Company's telephone operations, see Regulation and Competition.


MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS


    The Company's mobile communications  segment reflects 100% of the results of
operations  of the  cellular  entities  in  which  the  Company  has a  majority
interest. The minority interest owners' share of the income of such entities was
$8.1 million,  $3.4 million and $516,000 in 1995,  1994 and 1993,  respectively,
and is reflected as an expense in "Minority  interest."  The Company's  cellular
customers are located primarily in Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi and Texas.

    The Company's  share of earnings from the cellular  entities in which it has
less  than  a  majority   interest   (which  is  not   included  in  the  mobile
communications  segment)  is  accounted  for  using  the  equity  method  and is
reflected in "Income from unconsolidated cellular entities." The Company's share
of income  from such  entities  increased  to $20.1  million  in 1995 from $15.7
million in 1994 and $6.6 million in 1993.

Operating Revenues

    Cellular  service revenues include monthly service fees for providing access
and airtime to customers,  service fees for  providing  airtime to users roaming
through the Company's service areas and toll revenue.  Cellular service revenues
during 1995  increased to $192.0  million from $141.3  million in 1994 and $76.6
million in 1993.

    The 1995 and 1994  increases in cellular  service  revenues  were  primarily
attributable  to the  significant  increases  in  cellular  customers  resulting
principally from increased  demand,  acquisitions and expanded areas of service.
Cellular units in service in the Company's  majority-owned  markets increased to
290,075 as of December 31, 1995 from 211,710 as of December 31, 1994 and 116,484
as of December 31, 1993.  Included in the 1995 and 1994 increases were 8,931 and
31,155,  respectively,  of  units  added  through  acquisitions.   Exclusive  of
acquisitions,  access and usage revenues increased $30.8 million (30.3%) in 1995
and $27.2 million (48.3%) in 1994 and roaming and toll revenues  increased $12.9
million  (36.0%)  and  $9.8  million  (54.9%)  in 1995 and  1994,  respectively.
Cellular  entities acquired in 1995 contributed $4.0 million to cellular service
revenues. The Celutel operations increased revenues by $26.3 million in 1994.

    The average monthly cellular service revenue per customer declined to $66 in
1995 from $69 in 1994 and $71 in 1993. It has been an  industry-wide  trend that
early  subscribers  have  normally  been the  heaviest  users  and that a higher
percentage  of new  subscribers  tend to be lower usage  customers.  The average
monthly  service  revenue  per  customer  may  further  decline  (i)  as  market
penetration  increases and  additional  lower usage  customers are activated and
(ii) as competitive  pressures intensify and place additional pressure on rates.
The Company will continue to focus on customer  service and attempt to stimulate
cellular usage by promoting the availability of certain enhanced services and by
improving the quality of its service through the construction of additional cell
sites and enhancements to its system.

    Equipment and other revenues  included $2.9 million and $4.2 million in 1994
and  1993,  respectively,  of  revenues  attributable  to the  Company's  paging
operations,  which were sold in October  1994.  The  remainder of equipment  and
other revenues consisted  primarily of cellular  equipment sales.  Revenues from
the sale of cellular  phones  decreased  $1.0 million in 1995  compared to 1994.
Although the Company sold more phones in 1995 than in 1994,  revenues  decreased
because the Company has increasingly sold phones below cost, a strategy which is
common in the cellular industry.

Operating Expenses

    The increases in cost of sales during 1995 and 1994 resulted from  increases
in the number of cellular phones sold.

    Other  operating  expenses  increased $3.0 million (13.2%) in 1995 primarily
due to a $1.5 million  increase in costs paid to other  carriers  related to the
Company's  customers who roam in other carriers'  service areas in excess of the
amounts the Company bills its customers  (such costs are expected to increase as
the Company  continues  to expand its  reduced  rate  calling  areas) and a $1.5
million increase in expenses  incurred in  interconnecting  new cell sites. Such
increases were partially offset by a $1.0 million decrease in operating expenses
due to the sale of the Company's  paging  operations  in 1994.  The $7.5 million
increase in 1994 in other operating  expenses  included $5.8 million of expenses
of Celutel  subsequent  to its  acquisition  in  February  1994.  The  remaining
increase   in  other   operating   expenses  in  1994  was   primarily   due  to
interconnecting and operating new cell sites which were built to improve service
in several existing markets and to initiate and develop service in several rural
markets. The Company operated 277 cell sites at December 31, 1995 in entities in
which it had a majority  interest,  compared to 230 at December 31, 1994 and 158
at  December  31,  1993.  In 1995 and 1994,  24 cell  sites  and 29 cell  sites,
respectively, were added through acquisitions.

    Most of the $6.3 million  (19.0%)  increase in general,  administrative  and
customer  service expenses in 1995 was related to increased  expenses  resulting
from a larger  customer  base,  such as billing  costs ($1.4  million),  general
office  expenses  ($1.1  million),  uncollectible  accounts  ($1.2  million) and
customer  service  ($620,000).  General,  administrative  and  customer  service
expenses  increased $9.3 million  (39.0%) in 1994, $7.4 million of which was due
to the Celutel operations.  The remaining increase in 1994 was primarily related
to the increased number of customers.

    During 1995 and 1994,  sales and marketing  expenses  increased $6.4 million
(19.3%) and $13.2 million (66.3%),  respectively,  of which $3.8 million in 1995
and $8.2 million in 1994 were due to increases in commissions paid to agents for
selling  cellular  services to new customers.  The 1995 increase also included a
$1.3 million increase in the costs of sales  promotions and a $509,000  increase
in  advertising.  Costs of operating the Company's  retail stores,  the first of
which  was  opened in late  1994,  increased  $601,000  in 1995.  The  remaining
increase in 1994 was due to the Celutel operations.

    Depreciation  and  amortization  increased $4.2 million  (19.6%) in 1995 and
$9.9 million  (87.1%) in 1994 due to increases of $3.7 million and $4.9 million,
respectively,  applicable  to  higher  levels  of  cellular  plant  in  service.
Approximately  $3.8  million of the 1994  increase  was due to  amortization  of
goodwill attributable to the acquisition of Celutel.

Other

    For additional  information  regarding certain matters that have impacted or
may impact the Company's mobile  communications  operations,  see Regulation and
Competition.


OTHER OPERATIONS

    Other  operations  includes the results of operations of subsidiaries of the
Company  which  are not  included  in the  telephone  or  mobile  communications
segments,  including,  but not  limited  to, the  Company's  competitive  access
subsidiary and the Company's nonregulated long distance operations. The $988,000
decrease in operating income in 1995 was  substantially due to the loss incurred
by the Company's competitive access subsidiary in 1995 ($3.6 million) being $1.8
million  more than in 1994.  The Company  expects  such loss to be between  $6.0
million and $8.0 million in 1996.


INTEREST EXPENSE

    Interest  expense  increased  $1.0 million  (2.4%) in 1995 and $12.4 million
(41.2%) in 1994. The effect of higher average interest rates increased  interest
expense  $4.0  million in 1995.  Such  increase  was  substantially  offset by a
decrease in interest expense due to a decrease in average debt  outstanding.  In
February 1995 the Company's  $115.0  million of 6% convertible  debentures  were
converted into common stock.  In November 1995 the Company issued $150.0 million
of senior notes under its $400.0 million shelf registration statement filed with
the United States  Securities and Exchange  Commission  (the "SEC") in 1994. For
additional  information,   see  Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources  -  Financing
Activities  and  Note 5 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.  The
increase  during 1994 was primarily the result of a 34% increase in average debt
outstanding,  a substantial  amount of which was incurred in connection with the
acquisition of Celutel.


INCOME FROM UNCONSOLIDATED CELLULAR ENTITIES

    Earnings from unconsolidated  cellular entities,  net of the amortization of
associated goodwill, increased $4.4 million (27.9%) during 1995 and $9.1 million
(136.9%) during 1994. The 1995 increase was net of an $800,000 reduction in such
earnings  which  resulted from a retroactive  adjustment  related to prior years
recorded by the  operator of a cellular  partnership  in which the Company  owns
less than a majority  interest.  An  increase of $2.9  million in the  Company's
share of  income  from the  partnership  interests  acquired  in the San  Marcos
acquisition in April 1993  contributed  to the 1994 increase.  The remainders of
the 1995 and 1994 increases  were due to the  improvement  in  profitability  of
cellular entities in which the Company owns less than a majority interest.


GAIN ON SALES OF ASSETS

    During  1995  the  Company   sold  its   ownership   interests   in  certain
non-strategic cellular entities which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $5.9 million
($2.0 million  after-tax;  $.03 per fully diluted share).  Sales of other assets
during 1995 resulted in a pre-tax gain of $873,000 ($567,000 after-tax; $.01 per
fully diluted share).

    The Company sold the assets  comprising a cellular system in a Rural Service
Area ("RSA") in Minnesota in 1994 and recognized a pre-tax gain of $14.7 million
($8.5 million after-tax; $.15 per fully diluted share). In addition, the Company
sold its paging  operations  in 1994 which  resulted  in a pre-tax  gain of $1.2
million ($756,000 after-tax; $.01 per fully diluted share).


MINORITY INTEREST

    The  increased   profitability   during  1995  and  1994  of  the  Company's
majority-owned  and  operated  cellular  entities  resulted  in a  corresponding
increase of $4.7 million and $2.9 million, respectively, in the expense recorded
by the Company to reflect the minority interest owners' share of the profits.


OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE

    Other  income and  expense  during  1995 was $5.0  million  compared to $3.1
million during 1994 and $625,000 in 1993.  During 1995 and 1994 interest  income
increased $1.0 million and $1.5 million,  respectively,  due to interest  income
earned on a $25.0  million note  receivable  issued to Century in May 1994.  For
additional  information,   see  Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources  -  Investing
Activities.


INCOME TAX EXPENSE

    The effective  income tax rate was 37.3%,  37.9% and 35.1% in 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively. The increase in the effective rate in 1994 was primarily the
result  of (i)  amortization  of  investment  tax  credits  and  the  regulatory
liability  relating to income  taxes  remaining  relatively  stable while income
before taxes increased and (ii) the effect of an increase in the amortization of
goodwill which is not tax deductible.


ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

    The Company  adopted  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 112
("SFAS 112"), "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment  Benefits," in the first
quarter of 1994.  No  cumulative  effect of change in  accounting  principle was
required to be recorded upon adoption of SFAS 112.

    The Company will adopt Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 121
("SFAS  121"),  "Accounting  for the  Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets and for
Long-Lived  Assets to Be Disposed Of," in 1996. SFAS 121 establishes  accounting
standards  for  the  impairment  of  long-lived  assets,   certain  identifiable
intangibles,  and goodwill  related to those assets to be held and used, and for
long-lived assets and certain  identifiable  intangibles to be disposed of. SFAS
121 also requires that a rate-regulated  enterprise  recognize an impairment for
the amount of costs  excluded  when a regulator  excludes  all or part of a cost
from the  enterprise's  rate  base.  The effect of  adoption  of SFAS 121 by the
Company  is  not  expected  to  materially  affect  the  Company's  consolidated
financial position or results of operations.

    The Company will also adopt Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No.
123 ("SFAS 123"),  "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation," in 1996. SFAS 123
establishes   financial  accounting  and  reporting  standards  for  stock-based
employee  compensation  plans.  The Company  currently plans, as allowed by SFAS
123, to continue to measure  compensation  cost for employee stock  compensation
plans using the method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting  for  Stock  Issued  to  Employees,"  and  will  provide  pro  forma
disclosures in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as required by
SFAS 123.


INFLATION

    The effects of  increased  costs  historically  have been  mitigated  by the
ability to recover certain costs applicable to the Company's regulated telephone
operations  through  the  rate-making  process.  As  operating  expenses  in the
nonregulated areas increase as a result of inflation, the Company, to the extent
permitted  by  competition,  recovers  the costs by  increasing  prices  for its
services and equipment.

    While the regulatory process does not consider  replacement cost of physical
plant, the Company has historically  been able to earn a return on the increased
cost of its net investment when  facilities have been replaced.  Possible future
regulatory changes may alter the Company's ability to recover increased costs in
its  regulated  operations.  For  additional  information  regarding the current
regulatory environment, see Regulation and Competition.

                         LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

    Excluding cash used for acquisitions, the Company relies on cash provided by
operations  to provide a  substantial  portion of its cash needs.  The Company's
telephone  operations  have  historically  provided a stable source of cash flow
which  has  helped  the  Company  continue  its  long-term  program  of  capital
improvements.  Cash provided by the Company's mobile  communications  operations
has increased each year since that segment became cash-flow positive.

Operating Activities

    Net cash provided by operating activities was $215.7 million, $199.8 million
and  $166.8  million  in  1995,  1994  and  1993,  respectively.  The  Company's
accompanying  consolidated statements of cash flows identifies major differences
between net income and net cash  provided by  operating  activities  for each of
those years. For additional  information  relating to the telephone  operations,
mobile  communications  operations,  and other  operations  of the Company,  see
Results of Operations. 

Investing Activities

    Net cash used in investing activities was $227.8 million, $280.3 million and
$248.7 million during 1995, 1994 and 1993,  respectively.  Capital  expenditures
for 1995 were $136.0 million for telephone operations,  $42.0 million for mobile
communications  operations and $18.6 million for corporate and other operations.
During 1995 the Company invested $20.0 million in exchange for a minority equity
interest  in an entity  formed  for the  purpose of  participating  in the FCC's
auction,   which  began  in  December  1995,  of  Basic  Trading  Area  Personal
Communications Services ("PCS") licenses.

    Cash used in connection  with the February 1994  acquisition  of Celutel was
$56.0 million. In connection with the corporate restructuring of an unaffiliated
local exchange  telephone  company which has been viewed from time to time as an
acquisition  candidate,  Century loaned the telephone  company's holding company
$25.0  million in May 1994.  Payments for property,  plant and equipment  during
1994 and 1993 were $200.8 million and $204.2 million, respectively.

Financing Activities

    Net cash  provided by financing  activities  was $13.5  million in 1995.  In
November 1995 the Company issued $150.0 million of senior notes under its $400.0
million shelf registration  statement (see next paragraph and Note 5 of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements) to take  advantage of attractive  long-term
interest  rates.  The net proceeds were used to reduce the Company's  borrowings
under its credit facilities.

    Net cash  provided by  financing  activities  during 1994 and 1993 was $77.8
million and $81.9 million,  respectively.  During 1994 the Company filed a shelf
registration  statement  with  the SEC  registering  $400.0  million  of  senior
unsecured  debt  securities  under which the Company  issued  $150.0  million of
senior  notes  in May  1994.  See  Note 5 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements. The proceeds were used to discharge the Company's indebtedness under
a $90.0 million bridge loan incurred to fund  substantially all of the Company's
cash requirements in connection with the acquisition of Celutel in February 1994
and  to  reduce  the  Company's   short-term  bank  indebtedness  under  various
floating-rate credit facilities.  In connection with the offering, in the second
quarter of 1994 Moody's upgraded  Century's senior unsecured debt rating to Baa1
and Standard & Poor's affirmed its BBB+ rating.

    The $158.0  million of notes  payable at  December  31, 1994  reflected  the
Company's  continued  utilization of borrowings  under its credit  facilities to
take advantage of favorable short-term interest rates.

Other

    Budgeted  capital  expenditures  for 1996 total $102  million for  telephone
operations, $61 million for mobile communications operations and $26 million for
corporate  and  other   operations.   The  Company   anticipates   that  capital
expenditures   in  its  telephone   operations  will  continue  to  include  the
installation  of fiber optic cable and the upgrading of its plant and equipment,
including  its  digital   switches,   to  provide  enhanced   services.   Mobile
communications  capital  expenditures  are  expected  to  continue  to  focus on
constructing  additional  cell sites  (which will provide  expanded  areas where
hand-held  cellular  phones may be used),  to enhance the  Company's  ability to
provide digital service in the future and to begin providing  digital service in
certain  markets.  Budgeted  capital  expenditures for other operations for 1996
include $19 million of capital  construction costs planned to be expended in the
Company's competitive access operations.

    The Company will continue its long-term strategy of pursuing the acquisition
of  attractive  communications  properties  in exchange for cash,  securities or
both,   and  may  require   additional   financing  in   connection   therewith.
Approximately  615,000  shares of Century  common  stock and  125,000  shares of
Century  preferred stock remain available for future issuance in connection with
acquisitions under an acquisition shelf registration statement.

    As of December 31, 1995, Century's telephone  subsidiaries had available for
use  $142.6  million  of  commitments  for  long-term  financing  from the Rural
Utilities  Service and the Company had $108.6 million of undrawn  committed bank
lines of credit. In addition, approximately $140.0 million of uncommitted credit
facilities  were available to Century at December 31, 1995. The Company also has
access to debt and equity  capital  markets,  including  its shelf  registration
statements  mentioned above. The Company has experienced no significant problems
in obtaining funds for capital expenditures or other purposes.

    Common  stockholders'  equity as a percentage  of total  capitalization  was
57.6%  and  48.4%  at  December  31,  1995  and  1994,  respectively.  If the 6%
convertible  debentures  which were converted into common stock in 1995 had been
converted into common stock at December 31, 1994, common stockholders' equity as
a percentage of total capitalization would have been 57.0%.

                           REGULATION AND COMPETITION

    Most of the Company's  telephone  operations  are regulated  extensively  by
various  state  regulatory  agencies  and by the FCC.  Primarily  as a result of
legislative,   regulatory  and  technological  changes,   competition  has  been
introduced  and  encouraged  in  the  telephone   industry  and  regulation  has
decreased; it is anticipated that these trends will continue.  While competition
is  not  new  to the  Company's  cellular  operations,  competition  from  other
providers of mobile communications services is also expected to increase.

Events Affecting the Telecommunications Industry

    The  telecommunications  industry  continues to undergo various  fundamental
regulatory,  competitive  and  technological  changes that make it impossible to
determine the form or degree of future regulation and competition  affecting the
Company's telephone and mobile communications  operations.  The FCC and a number
of state regulatory commissions have begun to reduce the regulatory oversight of
LECs.  Coincident  with this movement  toward  reduced  regulation  has been the
introduction and  encouragement of local exchange  competition by, among others,
the FCC, various state legislative and regulatory bodies and, most recently, the
United  States  Congress  (see next  paragraph).  These  changes have led to the
organization  or continued  growth of various  companies  providing  competitive
access and other services that compete with LECs' services.  Wireless  telephone
services are also expected to increasingly compete with LECs.

    In February 1996 the United States Congress  enacted the  Telecommunications
Act of 1996 (the "1996 Act"),  which  obligates  LECs to permit  competitors  to
interconnect  their  facilities  to the LEC's  network and to take various other
steps that are designed to lower barriers of entry to competitors. These include
obligating  incumbent LECs to (i) negotiate  interconnection  agreements in good
faith,  (ii)  provide  "unbundled"  access to all aspects of the LEC's  network,
(iii) offer resale of its  telecommunications  services at  wholesale  rates and
(iv) permit  competitors to collocate its physical plant on the LEC's  property,
or provide virtual collocation if physical collocation is not practicable. Under
the 1996 Act's rural telephone company exemption, all of the Company's telephone
subsidiaries will be exempt from the foregoing itemized obligations of incumbent
LECs until such time as the state regulatory  commission with  jurisdiction over
any such company  receives  notice of a bona fide  request for  interconnection,
services or network elements and such commission  determines that the request is
technically feasible, not unduly economically  burdensome and is consistent with
the  universal  service  provisions  contained  in the  1996  Act.  The 1996 Act
provides that a federal-state joint board will review existing universal service
support  mechanisms and recommend  changes to the FCC  regulations in order that
such regulations will be consistent with the universal service principles in the
1996  Act.  In  addition,  the 1996  Act  provides  that all  telecommunications
carriers  providing  interstate  services shall contribute to universal  service
support  mechanisms.  Management  believes  that the  1996  Act will  ultimately
increase  competition in its franchised  telephone  service areas,  although the
form and degree of competition  cannot be ascertained until such time as the FCC
(and, in certain instances,  state regulatory  commissions)  adopts implementing
regulations.

    The  FCC  has   allocated   additional   frequency   spectrum   for   mobile
communications  technologies  that are expected to be competitive with cellular,
including  PCS (for which the FCC began to auction  operating  licenses  in late
1994)  and  mobile  satellite  services.  The FCC has  also  authorized  certain
specialized  mobile radio service  licensees to configure their systems so as to
operate in a manner similar to cellular systems. In addition, in connection with
the well-publicized  convergence of  telecommunications,  cable, video, computer
and other  technologies,  several large  companies have announced plans to offer
products  that  would  significantly  enhance  current  communications  and data
transmission  services  and, in some  instances,  introduce  new two-way  video,
entertainment, data, consumer and other multimedia services.

    Competition  to provide  local  exchange and access  services is expected to
initially affect large urban areas to a greater extent than rural,  suburban and
small urban areas such as those in which the Company's telephone  operations are
located.   The  same  expectation  applies  to  emerging   competitive  wireless
technologies  and the development of new multimedia  services.  The Company does
not believe such competition is likely to materially affect it in the near term.
The Company further  believes that it may benefit from having the opportunity to
observe the effects of these  developments  in large urban markets.  The Company
will  continue to monitor the ongoing  changes in  regulation,  competition  and
technology   and  consider  which   developments   provide  the  most  favorable
opportunities for the Company to pursue.

Recent Events Affecting the Company

    Revenues from the USF increased  approximately $5.4 million to $41.7 million
during 1995 after  increasing  $9.7 million  during 1994.  The 1996 Act provides
that a federal-state  joint board will review existing universal service support
mechanisms  and  recommend  changes  to the  appropriate  FCC  regulations;  for
additional  information,  see Events Affecting the Telecommunications  Industry.
Earlier in 1995, the FCC sought public  comments on proposals and policy changes
relating  to  certain  federal  high-cost  assistance  mechanisms  that  provide
substantial  revenues to the Company,  including  the USF.  Although the Company
anticipates  that it may experience a reduction in its federal support  revenues
at some point in the future,  management  believes it is  premature to assess or
estimate the ultimate impact thereof.  There can be no assurance,  however, that
such impact will not be material.

    In  February  1996 the FCC  sought  public  comments  on  whether  it should
initiate a rate of return represcription proceeding for LECs that are subject to
rate of return regulation for interstate access revenues.

    During the last two years, Wisconsin,  Louisiana, Ohio, Michigan and certain
other states in which the Company  operates took legislative  and/or  regulatory
steps to further  introduce  competition into the LEC business.  A cable company
has requested  authorization  to provide local exchange  service in a portion of
the  Company's  franchised  service  area in Ohio,  and it is  anticipated  that
similar action may be taken by others in the future in the Company's  franchised
service areas.

    During 1995, the Louisiana Public Service Commission ("LPSC") culminated its
two-year  investigation into the earnings of independent  telephone companies in
Louisiana by adopting a new regulatory plan for such companies effective July 1,
1995. The plan provides that independent  telephone  companies in Louisiana will
be  regulated  on an  incentive-type  rate of return basis in a manner yet to be
determined.

    Under this plan, the Company is required to reduce its  intrastate  switched
access rates over a two-year  period to match the rates in effect for BellSouth.
The Company's access revenues were reduced  approximately  $500,000 in 1995 as a
result of this regulation and the Company  anticipates  that this directive will
reduce its access revenues by up to $4.2 million annually upon completion of the
two year phase-in.

    The plan also  establishes  a target  rate of return of  between  10.75% and
12.75%  after  giving  effect to the access  rate  reductions  described  above.
Beginning July 1, 1996,  companies  earning in excess of 12.75% will be required
to lower their prospective rate of return to 12.25%,  either by further reducing
access rates (subject to certain  limits) or taking such other actions as may be
directed  by the LPSC.  Although  the impact of this  directive  on the  Company
cannot be readily determined until the LPSC provides  additional guidance on the
operation and methodology of the plan, the Company  anticipates  that the impact
of these changes will adversely affect its results of operations and there is no
assurance  that the effect  will not be  material.  During  1995  certain of the
Company's Louisiana telephone subsidiaries,  with the LPSC's approval,  recorded
an aggregate of $6.5 million of nonrecurring  additional  depreciation  charges.
The Company anticipates that certain of its Louisiana telephone subsidiaries may
continue to take action to reduce earnings levels as a result of this plan.

    Certain long distance  carriers  continue to request that the Company reduce
intrastate  access  tariffed  rates for certain of its  telephone  subsidiaries.
There is no assurance that these requests will not result in reduced  intrastate
access revenues in the future.

    Certain  revenues  determined  under the  FCC's  cost  separation  rules are
affected by the number of access lines served by a specific  telephone  company.
During 1995 the customer base of one of the Company's telephone  subsidiaries in
Michigan  increased  above 50,000 access lines,  which resulted in a decrease in
revenues of approximately  $700,000.  An additional decrease in revenues of that
subsidiary of approximately  $500,000 is expected in 1996. In addition, in early
1996 another of the Company's telephone subsidiaries reached 50,000 access lines
and  it  is  anticipated   that  revenues  for  that  subsidiary  will  decrease
approximately $1.5 million in 1996 as a result thereof.

Other Matters

    The Company's regulated  telephone  operations are subject to the provisions
of Statement of Financial Accounting  Standards No. 71 ("SFAS 71"),  "Accounting
for the  Effects of Certain  Types of  Regulation,"  under  which the Company is
required  to  account  for the  economic  effects  of the  rate-making  process,
including the  recognition  of  depreciation  of plant and equipment  over lives
approved by regulators.  The ongoing  applicability  of SFAS 71 to the Company's
regulated   telephone   operations  is  being  monitored  due  to  the  changing
regulatory,   competitive  and  legislative  environments.  When  the  regulated
operations of the Company no longer qualify for the  application of SFAS 71, the
required  accounting impact,  the amount of which has not been determined,  will
result in a material,  extraordinary,  noncash charge against earnings. See Note
12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

    The Company has certain  obligations based on federal,  state and local laws
relating to the protection of the environment.  Costs of compliance through 1995
have not been  material and the Company  currently has no reason to believe that
such costs will become material.


Item 8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

                              Report of Management
                              --------------------
The Shareholders
Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc.:

    Management  has prepared and is responsible  for the Company's  consolidated
financial statements.  The consolidated  financial statements have been prepared
in accordance  with generally  accepted  accounting  principles and  necessarily
include  amounts   determined  using  our  best  judgments  and  estimates  with
consideration given to materiality.

    The Company  maintains  internal  control  systems and related  policies and
procedures designed to provide reasonable  assurance that the accounting records
accurately  reflect  business  transactions  and  that the  transactions  are in
accordance with management's authorization.  The design, monitoring and revision
of the systems of internal  control  involve,  among other things,  our judgment
with respect to the  relative  cost and  expected  benefits of specific  control
measures.  Additionally,  the Company  maintains an internal  auditing  function
which independently  evaluates the effectiveness of internal controls,  policies
and procedures and formally reports on the adequacy and effectiveness thereof.

    The Company's  consolidated  financial  statements have been audited by KPMG
Peat Marwick LLP, independent  certified public accountants,  who have expressed
their  opinion  with  respect  to the  fairness  of the  consolidated  financial
statements.  Their audit was conducted in  accordance  with  generally  accepted
auditing  standards,  which includes the consideration of the Company's internal
controls  to  the  extent  necessary  to  form  an  independent  opinion  on the
consolidated financial statements prepared by management.

    The Audit  Committee of the Board of Directors is composed of directors  who
are not officers or employees of the Company.  The Committee meets  periodically
with  the  independent  certified  public  accountants,  internal  auditors  and
management.  The  Committee  considers  the audit scope and  discusses  internal
control,  financial and reporting  matters.  Both the  independent  and internal
auditors have free access to the Committee.

/s/ R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.

R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


                          Independent Auditors' Report
                          ----------------------------
The Board of Directors
Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc.:

    We have audited the consolidated  financial  statements of Century Telephone
Enterprises,  Inc. and subsidiaries as listed in Item 14a(i). In connection with
our audits of the consolidated  financial  statements,  we also have audited the
financial  statement  schedules as listed in Item  14a(ii).  These  consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of
the Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our
audits.

    We conducted  our audits in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the financial  position of Century
Telephone  Enterprises,  Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994,
and the results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year  period ended December 31, 1995, in conformity  with generally
accepted  accounting  principles.  Also in our  opinion,  the related  financial
statement  schedules,  when  considered  in relation  to the basic  consolidated
financial  statements  taken  as a  whole,  present  fairly,  in  all  material
respects, the information set forth therein.


/s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP

Shreveport, Louisiana
January 29, 1996


                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                        Consolidated Statements of Income


                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets



                                 CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows





                                 CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                           Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity


                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1995


(1)     SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles of consolidation - The consolidated  financial  statements of Century
Telephone  Enterprises,  Inc.  and  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  include  the
accounts  of  Century   Telephone   Enterprises,   Inc.   ("Century")   and  its
majority-owned subsidiaries and partnerships.  The Company's regulated telephone
operations  are subject to the  provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 71,  "Accounting  for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."
Investments  in  cellular  entities  where the  Company  does not own a majority
interest are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.

Estimates - The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that affect (i) the reported  amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and (ii) the reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses  during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue  recognition  - Revenues  are  recognized  when  earned.  Certain of the
Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  participate  in  revenue  pools  with  other
telephone  companies for interstate revenue and for certain intrastate  revenue.
Such  pools are  funded by toll  revenue  and/or  access  charges  within  state
jurisdictions  and by access charges in the interstate  market.  Revenues earned
through  the various  pooling  processes  are  initially  recorded  based on the
Company's estimates.

Property,  plant and  equipment -  Telephone  plant is stated  substantially  at
original cost of  construction.  Normal  retirements  of telephone  property are
charged against accumulated depreciation,  along with the costs of removal, less
salvage, with no gain or loss recognized.  Renewals and betterments of plant and
equipment are capitalized while repairs, as well as renewals of minor items, are
charged to operating expense.  Depreciation of telephone  properties is provided
on the straight line method,  using class or overall  group rates  acceptable to
the regulatory authorities; such rates range from 2.2% to 25%.

    Non-telephone  property is stated at cost and, when sold or retired,  a gain
or loss is recognized. Depreciation of such property is provided on the straight
line method over estimated service lives ranging from three to 30 years.

Excess cost of net assets  acquired - The excess cost of net assets  acquired of
substantially  all of the  Company's  acquisitions  accounted  for as  purchases
(goodwill) is being  amortized over forty years.  The carrying value of goodwill
is reviewed for impairment at least  annually,  or whenever events or changes in
circumstances  indicate  that such  carrying  value may not be  recoverable,  by
assessing  the   recoverability   of  such  carrying  value  through   estimated
undiscounted future net cash flows.

Affiliated  transactions  - Certain  service  subsidiaries  of  Century  provide
installation and maintenance services,  materials and supplies,  and managerial,
technical and accounting services to subsidiaries. In addition, Century provides
and bills  management  services to subsidiaries  and in certain  instances makes
interest  bearing  advances to finance  construction  of plant and  purchases of
equipment.   These   transactions  are  recorded  by  the  Company's   telephone
subsidiaries  at their cost to the extent  permitted by regulatory  authorities.
Intercompany  profit on transactions  with regulated  affiliates is limited to a
reasonable  return on investment and has not been  eliminated in connection with
consolidating  the  results  of  operations  of  Century  and its  subsidiaries.
Intercompany  profit  on  transactions  with  nonregulated  affiliates  has been
eliminated.

Income taxes - Century files a  consolidated  federal income tax return with its
eligible  subsidiaries.  The  Company  uses the  asset and  liability  method of
accounting for income taxes under which deferred tax assets and  liabilities are
established for the future tax consequences  attributable to differences between
the financial  statement  carrying  amounts of assets and  liabilities and their
respective  tax bases.  Investment tax credits  related to telephone  plant have
been  deferred  and are being  amortized  as a reduction  of federal  income tax
expense  over the  estimated  useful  lives  of the  assets  giving  rise to the
credits.

Earnings per share - Primary  earnings per share  amounts are  determined on the
basis  of the  weighted  average  number  of  common  shares  and  common  stock
equivalents  outstanding  during the year. The weighted average number of shares
used in computing  primary  earnings  per share was 58.1  million in 1995,  53.4
million in 1994, and 51.2 million in 1993.

    Fully diluted  earnings per share amounts give further effect to convertible
securities,  primarily  Century's  convertible  debentures  (all of  which  were
converted  into common stock in 1995),  which are not common stock  equivalents.
The weighted  average number of shares used in computing fully diluted  earnings
per share was 59.1  million,  58.1  million and 55.9  million in 1995,  1994 and
1993, respectively.

Cash equivalents - The Company considers short-term  investments with a maturity
at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Reclassifications  - Certain  amounts  previously  reported for prior years have
been  reclassified  to conform  with the 1995  presentation,  including  (i) the
results of operations of  subsidiaries  of the Company which are not included in
telephone  or  mobile  communications   operations  have  been  reclassified  to
operating  income  from other  income and  expense  and (ii) the  provision  for
uncollectible  accounts  in  the  Company's  telephone  operations,   previously
reflected as a reduction in other revenues, has been reclassified as an expense.

(2)     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

    Net property, plant and equipment at December 31, 1995 and 1994 was composed
of the following:


December 31,                                   1995                1994
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 (Dollars in thousands)

Telephone, at original cost
    Cable and wire                          $  661,429           580,012
    Central office                             357,359           310,684
    General support                             99,145            91,722
    Information origination/termination         24,394            21,478
    Construction in progress                    59,859            67,244
    Other                                        5,161             5,356
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             1,207,347         1,076,496
    Accumulated depreciation                  (357,633)         (295,255)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               849,714           781,241
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mobile Communications, at cost
    Cell site                                  140,462           104,553
    General support                             33,651            34,235
    Construction in progress                    16,162            12,602
    Other                                        1,319               915
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               191,594           152,305
    Accumulated depreciation                   (54,927)          (38,552)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               136,667           113,753
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Corporate and other, at cost
    General support                             86,149            81,932
    Other                                       14,464             3,474
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               100,613            85,406
    Accumulated depreciation                   (39,186)          (33,269)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                61,427            52,137
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net property, plant and equipment           $1,047,808           947,131
========================================================================

    Depreciation expense was $102.1 million,  $84.8 million and $70.7 million in
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. The composite depreciation rate for telephone
properties was 7.5% for 1995 and 7.1% for 1994 and 1993.

(3)     INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS

    Investments  and other assets at December 31, 1995 and 1994 were composed of
the following:


December 31,                                                 1995       1994
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

Excess cost of net assets acquired, less 
   accumulated amortization                              $  493,655    441,436
Investments in unconsolidated cellular entities              83,552     59,360
Cash surrender value of life insurance contracts, net        54,697     47,637
Note receivable, less current portion                        22,500     24,167
Investment in unconsolidated personal communications
   services entity, at cost                                  20,000          -
Marketable equity securities                                  8,478      8,478
Other                                                        36,402     33,816
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         $  719,284    614,894
==============================================================================

    Goodwill  amortization of $11.4 million,  $10.6 million and $6.2 million for
1995,  1994  and  1993,   respectively,   is  included  in   "Depreciation   and
amortization."

    In 1995 the Company invested $20.0 million in exchange for a minority equity
interest  in an  entity  formed  to  participate  in the  Federal  Communication
Commission's  auction of Basic  Trading Area  Personal  Communications  Services
licenses.

    In 1994 Century  loaned an  unaffiliated  telephone  holding  company  $25.0
million.  The loan bears interest at prime plus 1.5%; interest is due quarterly.
Quarterly principal payments began in August 1995 and the unpaid balance becomes
due in May 1998.  Century received a security  interest in the holding company's
capital stock, a guaranty from such company's  principal  stockholder  and first
refusal  rights  to  acquire   certain   properties   under  various   specified
circumstances.

(4)     INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED CELLULAR ENTITIES

    The Company's share of earnings from cellular  entities in which it does not
own a majority  interest was $21.4  million,  $16.9  million and $7.6 million in
1995, 1994 and 1993,  respectively,  and is included,  net of $1.3 million, $1.2
million  and  $966,000  of  amortization   of  goodwill   attributable  to  such
investments, in "Income from unconsolidated cellular entities."

    Over  77% of the 1995  income  from  unconsolidated  cellular  entities  was
attributable to the following investments.

                                                            Ownership interest
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GTE Mobilnet of Austin Limited Partnership                           35%
Alltel Cellular Associates of Arkansas Limited Partnership           36%
Lafayette MSA Limited Partnership                                    49%
Detroit SMSA Limited Partnership                                      3%
New Mexico 4 - Santa Fe RSA West Limited Partnership                 36%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The following  summarizes the unaudited  combined  assets,  liabilities  and
equity,  and the  unaudited  combined  results of  operations,  of the  cellular
entities in which the  Company's  investments  are  accounted  for by the equity
method.


December 31,                                   1995                      1994
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   (Dollars in thousands)
                                                        (unaudited)
Assets
   Current assets                           $204,222                    76,191
   Property and other noncurrent assets      487,073                   277,269
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            $691,295                   353,460
==============================================================================

Liabilities and equity
   Current liabilities                      $ 79,085                    48,144
   Noncurrent liabilities                      6,922                    11,080
   Equity                                    605,288                   294,236
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            $691,295                   353,460
==============================================================================


Year ended December 31,                        1995         1994         1993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   (Dollars in thousands)
                                                         (unaudited)
Results of operations
   Revenues                                 $743,779     329,907       236,230
   Operating income                         $266,355      93,512        52,742
   Net income                               $268,967      92,446        53,607
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Consolidated  retained  earnings  at  December  31,  1995 which  represented
undistributed earnings of unconsolidated cellular entities was $30.4 million.

(5)     LONG-TERM DEBT

December 31,                                                1995        1994
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)
Century
   6.0% convertible debentures                           $      -     115,000
   8.25% senior notes, series B, due 2024                 100,000     100,000
   7.2% senior notes, series D, due 2025                  100,000           -
   9.4%* senior notes, due through 2004                    60,400      65,000
   7.75% senior notes, series A, due 2004                  50,000      50,000
   6.55% senior notes, series C, due 2005                  50,000           -
   6.07%* notes payable to banks, due 2000                 22,500           -
   7.2%* Employee Stock Ownership Plan commitment,
     due in installments through 2004                      13,960      16,840
   10.5%* notes, due in installments through 2006             674         975
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total Century                                    397,534     347,815
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subsidiaries
   First mortgage debt
     5.9%* notes, payable to agencies of the United 
       States government and cooperative lending 
       associations, due in installments through 2026     202,037     166,175
     6.8%* bonds, due in installments through 2002          4,760       7,094
   Other debt
     6.5%  note, due in installments through 2001          13,714           -
     7.4%* notes, due in installments through 2020         19,164       8,632
     8.1%* capital lease obligations, due in 
       installments through 1998                            1,020       1,605
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total subsidiaries                               240,695     183,506
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total long-term debt                                      638,229     531,321
Less current maturities                                    15,325      12,718
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Long-term debt, excluding current maturities             $622,904     518,603
=============================================================================
* weighted average interest rate at December 31, 1995

    The approximate annual debt maturities (including sinking fund requirements)
for the five years subsequent to December 31, 1995 are as follows:  1996 - $15.3
million;  1997 - $18.4 million;  1998 - $16.3 million; 1999 - $15.9 million; and
2000 - $69.8 million.

    In  January  1995  Century  called  for  redemption  its  $115.0  million of
outstanding  6% convertible  debentures  due 2007.  All of the  debentures  were
converted into Century common stock by the debenture holders in February 1995 at
a  conversion  price of $25.33 per share.  If Century  had issued  common  stock
instead  of the  debentures,  primary  earnings  per share  for the years  ended
December  31,  1995,  1994 and 1993  would  have been  $1.95,  $1.81 and  $1.32,
respectively.

    During the fourth quarter of 1995,  Century issued $50.0 million of 10-year,
6.55% senior notes and $100.0  million of 30-year,  7.20% senior notes under the
$400.0 million shelf registration  statement that Century filed during the first
quarter  of  1994.  The  proceeds  were  used  to  reduce  Century's  short-term
indebtedness  under  various  credit  facilities.   Interest  payments  are  due
semi-annually  and principal  payments are due in 2005 and 2025 upon maturity of
the 10-year and 30-year notes,  respectively.  The 30-year notes may be redeemed
by Century at any time  subject to  certain  "make-whole"  provisions  contained
therein.

    In May 1994 Century issued $50.0 million of 10-year,  7.75% senior notes and
$100.0  million of 30-year,  8.25% senior notes under the $400.0  million  shelf
registration statement filed during the first quarter of 1994. The proceeds were
used to reduce certain of the Company's  short-term bank indebtedness.  Interest
payments are due semi-annually  and principal  payments are due in 2004 and 2024
upon maturity of the 10-year and 30-year notes, respectively.  The 30-year notes
may be redeemed by Century on or after May 1, 2004 subject to a premium schedule
which declines from 103.62% as of May 1, 2004 to 100% as of May 1, 2014.

    Certain of the Company's loan agreements contain various restrictions, among
which are limitations  regarding  issuance of additional  debt,  payment of cash
dividends,  reacquisition of the Company's  capital stock and other matters.  At
December 31, 1995, all of the consolidated  retained  earnings  reflected on the
balance sheet was available for the declaration of dividends.

    The transfer of funds from certain  consolidated  subsidiaries to Century is
restricted  by  various  loan  agreements.  Subsidiaries  which  have loans from
government agencies and cooperative lending  associations,  or have issued first
mortgage bonds,  generally may not loan or advance any funds to Century, but may
pay  dividends  if certain  financial  ratios are met.  At  December  31,  1995,
restricted  net  assets  of  subsidiaries  were  $253.8  million.  Subsidiaries'
retained  earnings in excess of amounts  restricted  by debt  covenants  totaled
$412.0 million.

    Most of the Company's telephone property,  plant and equipment is pledged to
secure the long-term debt of subsidiaries.

    At  December  31,  1994,  Century  had in  place  certain  long-term  credit
facilities  under which the  borrowings as of December 31, 1994 were included in
"Notes payable" on the accompanying balance sheet. The weighted average interest
rate for notes payable was 6.5% as of December 31, 1994.

    Short-term  borrowings  of $22.5  million at December 31,  1995,  along with
$30.0 million of debt becoming due in 1996, were classified as long-term debt on
the  accompanying  balance  sheet as the Company had  available  an aggregate of
$145.0  million in its two  long-term  revolving  credit  facilities  amended or
entered  into in 1995.  The  Company  intends to  refinance  such debt using the
facilities,  both of which are multi-year agreements which expire in August 2000
and contain a variety of pricing options including competitive bid options.

    Century's  telephone   subsidiaries  had  approximately  $142.6  million  in
commitments for long-term  financing from the Rural Utilities  Service available
at December 31, 1995. Approximately $248.6 million of additional borrowings,  of
which $140.0 million were under  uncommitted  facilities,  were available to the
Company  through lines of credit with various  banks.  In addition,  Century had
$100.0  million  of  senior  unsecured  debt  securities  under  the 1994  shelf
registration statement which had not been issued.

(6)     STOCK OPTION PROGRAM

    Century  currently  has an incentive  compensation  program which allows the
Board of Directors,  through the Compensation  Committee, to grant incentives to
employees in any one or a combination of the following  forms:  incentive  stock
options and non-qualified stock options;  stock appreciation rights;  restricted
stock; and performance shares.

    Stock option transactions during 1993, 1994 and 1995 were as follows:


                                               Number          Average
                                             of options         price
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding December 31, 1992                 2,432,869       $ 20.72
    Exercised                                   (51,120)         9.90
- -------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding December 31, 1993                 2,381,749         20.96
    Exercised                                  (139,282)        11.10
    Granted at market price                      31,000         26.25
- -------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding December 31, 1994                 2,273,467         21.63
    Exercised                                  (272,300)        10.12
    Granted above market price                  634,031         36.15
- -------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding December 31, 1995                 2,635,198         25.46
=======================================================

Exercisable December 31, 1994                 2,143,873         21.57
- -------------------------------------------------------
Exercisable December 31, 1995                 2,604,198         26.32
=======================================================

    All of the options expire ten years after the date of grant.  As of December
31, 1995,  Century has reserved 4.0 million  shares of common stock which may be
issued under the incentive compensation program.

    The Company will adopt Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation," in 1996. The Company currently plans
to continue to measure  compensation cost for employee stock  compensation plans
using the method  prescribed  by  Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."

(7)     DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER LIABILITIES

    Deferred  credits and other  liabilities  at December 31, 1995 and 1994 were
composed of the following:


December 31,                                      1995              1994
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  (Dollars in thousands)

Deferred federal and state income taxes        $ 93,118            73,966
Accrued postretirement benefit costs             44,513            41,126
Regulatory liability - income taxes              27,027            31,278
Minority interest                                29,354            22,585
Deferred investment tax credits                   6,026             8,175
Other                                            11,131            10,616
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               $211,169           187,746
=========================================================================

(8)     INCOME TAXES

    Income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 1995,  1994 and 1993 was
allocated as follows:


Year ended December 31,                                 1995     1994     1993
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

Net tax expense in the consolidated 
   statements of income                            $ 68,292    61,300   37,252
Stockholders' equity, primarily for compensation
   expense for tax purposes in excess of amounts
   recognized for financial reporting purposes       (2,354)   (1,243)    (800)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   $ 65,938    60,057   36,452
===============================================================================

    The tax  effects  of  temporary  differences  that gave rise to  significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31,
1995 and 1994 were as follows:


December 31,                                          1995             1994
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     (Dollars in thousands)

Deferred tax assets:
   Postretirement benefit costs                  $   15,314           12,908
   Net operating loss carryforwards of an
     acquired subsidiary                              9,234           10,283
   Regulatory liability                               9,460           10,948
   Deferred compensation                              2,659            2,676
   Deferred investment tax credits                    1,918            2,658
   Other employee benefits                            4,673            4,205
   Other                                              3,227            2,556
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total gross deferred tax assets                46,485           46,234
      Less valuation allowance                       (9,234)         (10,283)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Net deferred tax assets                        37,251           35,951
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deferred tax liabilities:
   Property, plant and equipment, primarily
      due to depreciation differences              (117,095)         (97,073)
   Intercompany profits                              (3,787)          (3,497)
   Other                                             (9,487)          (9,347)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total gross deferred tax liabilities         (130,369)        (109,917)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liability                       $  (93,118)         (73,966)
============================================================================

    As a result of the acquisition of Celutel,  Inc.  ("Celutel")  (see Note 14)
the  Company  had  $26.4  million  and  $29.4  million  of  net  operating  loss
carryforwards  at December  31, 1995 and 1994,  respectively,  which  related to
various entities acquired.  The yearly utilization of such loss carryforwards is
limited to separate entity taxable income;  the loss  carryforwards  are further
limited by certain  Internal Revenue Code  regulations.  During 1995 the Company
utilized $3.0 million of such losses;  the related tax benefits  reduced  excess
cost of net assets acquired.  Subsequently recognized tax benefits applicable to
the net  operating  loss  carryforwards  will  reduce  excess cost of net assets
acquired. The net operating loss carryforwards expire between 2002 and 2008.

    Income tax expense was as follows:


Year ended December 31,                    1995       1994       1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             (Dollars in thousands)

Federal
    Current                              $53,554     47,969     26,409
    Deferred                               9,021      5,703      6,133
State
    Current                                5,175      5,908      4,062
    Deferred                                 542      1,720        648
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         $68,292     61,300     37,252
======================================================================

    The following is a reconciliation from the statutory federal income tax rate
to the Company's effective income tax rate:

Year ended December 31,                          1995       1994      1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       (Percentage of
                                                       pre-tax income)


Statutory federal income tax rate                35.0%      35.0      35.0
State income taxes, net of federal 
  income tax benefit                              2.0        3.0       2.9
Amortization of nondeductible excess
  cost of net assets acquired                     1.8        2.1       1.2
Amortization of investment tax credits           (1.3)      (1.4)     (2.0)
Amortization of regulatory liability             (1.0)      (1.2)     (1.8)
Other, net                                         .8         .4       (.2)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effective income tax rate                        37.3%      37.9      35.1
==========================================================================

(9)     POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

    The  Company  sponsors  defined  benefit  health  care  plans  that  provide
postretirement  medical,  life and dental benefits to substantially  all retired
full-time employees.

    Net periodic  postretirement  benefit cost for 1995,  1994 and 1993 included
the following components:


Year ended December 31,                           1995       1994       1993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    (Dollars in thousands)

Service cost                                    $1,769      2,007       1,640
Interest cost                                    3,972      3,473       3,008
Amortization of unrecognized 
  actuarial losses (gains)                         (50)       447         365
Amortization of unrecognized 
  prior service cost                               121        121          86
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net periodic postretirement benefit cost        $5,812      6,048       5,099
=============================================================================

    The following  table sets forth the amounts  recognized as  liabilities  for
postretirement benefits in the Company's consolidated balance sheets at December
31, 1995 and 1994.


December 31,                                             1995           1994
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        (Dollars in thousands)

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:
   Retirees and retirees' dependents                 $  26,185         19,079
   Fully eligible active plan participants               9,972          8,300
   Other active plan participants                       23,971         16,430
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation           60,128         43,809
Plan assets                                                  -              -
Unrecognized prior service cost                         (1,424)        (1,546)
Unrecognized net gain (loss)                           (12,881)           173
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accrued postretirement benefit costs                 $  45,823         42,436
=============================================================================

    For  calculation  purposes,  a 7% health  care cost rate was assumed for the
first two years;  the rate was  assumed to  decrease  to 6%  thereafter.  If the
assumed health care cost trend rate had been  increased by one percentage  point
in each year, the accumulated  postretirement  benefit obligation as of December
31, 1995 would have increased  $5.3 million and the net periodic  postretirement
benefit cost for the year ended December 31, 1995 would have increased $405,000.

    The  discount  rates  used in  determining  the  accumulated  postretirement
benefit  obligation  as of  December  31,  1995 and 1994  were  7.25%  and 8.5%,
respectively.

    In the first  quarter of 1994 the Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting   Standards  No.  112  ("SFAS  112"),   "Employers'   Accounting  for
Postemployment   Benefits."  Liabilities  for  postemployment  benefits  in  the
consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 1993 were not materially different
than those required by SFAS 112;  therefore,  no cumulative  effect of change in
accounting principle was recorded upon adoption of SFAS 112.

(10)    STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Common  stock - At December 31, 1995,  unissued  shares of Century  common stock
were reserved as follows:

December 31,                                            1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   (In thousands)
Stock option plans                                     4,001
Acquisitions                                           1,178
Employee stock purchase plan                             506
Dividend reinvestment plan                               166
Conversion of convertible preferred stock                193
Other employee benefit plans                           1,238
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       7,282
================================================================

    Under  Century's  Articles  of  Incorporation  each  share of  common  stock
beneficially  owned continuously by the same person since May 30, 1987 generally
entitles the holder thereof to ten votes per share. All other shares entitle the
holder to one vote per share. At December 31, 1995, 8.1 million shares of common
stock were entitled to ten votes per share.

Preferred  stock - As of December  31, 1995,  Century had 2.0 million  shares of
preferred stock, $25 par value per share,  authorized.  At December 31, 1995 and
1994 there were 90,467 and 90,707 shares, respectively, of outstanding preferred
stock. Holders of currently  outstanding Century preferred stock are entitled to
(i) receive cumulative dividends, (ii) receive preferential  distributions equal
to $25 per share plus unpaid dividends upon Century's liquidation and (iii) vote
as a single class with the holders of common stock.

Shareholders'  Rights Plan - In 1986 the Board of Directors  declared a dividend
of one preferred stock purchase right for each common share  outstanding or that
shall become outstanding prior to November 26, 1996. With certain exceptions, if
a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of Century common
shares or  commences a tender or exchange  offer which upon  consummation  would
result in  ownership  of 30% or more of the  common  shares,  each right held by
shareholders, other than such person or group, may be exercised to buy (i) eight
twenty-sevenths   of  one   one-hundredth   of  a  share  of  Series  AA  Junior
Participating Preferred Stock of Century at a price of $85 per one one-hundredth
of a share or (ii) in lieu thereof, subject to certain restrictions,  the number
of shares of Century  common stock having a market value equal to two times such
purchase price. The rights, which do not have voting rights,  expire on November
27, 1996 and may be redeemed by Century at a price of $.05 per right at any time
before  they  become  exercisable.  If, at any time the rights are  exercisable,
Century is a party to a merger or other  business  combination  or certain other
transactions  occur,  each right will  entitle  its  holder to  purchase  at the
exercise  price of the right a number of shares of common stock of the surviving
company having a fair market value of two times the exercise price of the right.
At December 31, 1995, 167,000 shares of Series AA Junior Participating Preferred
Stock were reserved for issuance under the Rights Plan.

(11)    SALES OF ASSETS

    In the  first  quarter  of  1995  the  Company  sold,  for an  aggregate  of
approximately   $17.9   million  cash,   its  ownership   interests  in  certain
non-strategic cellular Rural Service Areas ("RSAs") located primarily in western
states and three Metropolitan  Statistical Areas ("MSAs") in the midwest.  These
transactions   resulted  in  a  pre-tax  gain  of  $5.9  million  ($2.0  million
after-tax).  During the fourth  quarter of 1995, the Company sold certain assets
of one of its  subsidiaries for $2.0 million which resulted in a pre-tax gain of
$873,000 ($567,000 after-tax).

    In 1994 the Company sold the assets  comprising  an RSA  cellular  system in
Minnesota;  the Company received (i) the assets of the Pine Bluff,  Arkansas MSA
wireline  cellular system and (ii) $10.5 million cash. The transaction  resulted
in a pre-tax gain of $14.7 million ($8.5  million  after-tax).  The Company also
sold the assets of its paging  operations  during 1994 and  recognized a gain of
$1.2 million ($756,000 after-tax).

    During 1993 the Company sold a minority  investment  in a telephone  company
which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $1.7 million ($1.1 million after-tax).

(12)    ACCOUNTING FOR THE EFFECTS OF REGULATION

    The Company's regulated  telephone  operations are subject to the provisions
of Statement of Financial Accounting  Standards No. 71 ("SFAS 71"),  "Accounting
for the Effects of Certain  Types of  Regulation."  Actions of a  regulator  can
provide reasonable  assurance of the existence of an asset,  reduce or eliminate
the value of an asset and impose a liability on a regulated enterprise.  SFAS 71
requires  that,  if a conflict  exists  between the  application  of SFAS 71 and
another  authoritative  pronouncement,  SFAS 71 is to be followed  because other
authoritative  pronouncements  do  not  consider  the  economic  effects  of the
rate-making process. Therefore, regulatory assets and liabilities established by
the  actions of a  regulator  are  required to be  recorded,  and,  accordingly,
reflected in the balance sheet of an entity subject to SFAS 71.

    The  Company's  consolidated  balance sheet as of December 31, 1995 included
regulatory  assets of approximately  $8.7 million and regulatory  liabilities of
approximately $27.0 million exclusive of (i) property, plant and equipment, (ii)
accumulated depreciation and (iii) deferred income taxes and deferred investment
tax credits associated with regulatory assets and liabilities.  The $8.7 million
of regulatory assets included assets established in connection with the adoption
of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 106, "Employers  Accounting
for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" ($2.1 million) and Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 109 ("SFAS 109"),  "Accounting  For Income
Taxes"  ($3.2  million),   extraordinary  retirements  ($305,000),   compensated
absences  ($401,000)  and deferred  financing  costs ($2.7  million).  The $27.0
million  of  regulatory  liabilities  was  established  in  connection  with the
adoption of SFAS 109. Net deferred  income tax assets  related to the regulatory
assets and liabilities quantified above were $7.4 million.

    Property,   plant  and  equipment  of  the  Company's   regulated  telephone
operations has been  depreciated  using  generally the straight line method over
lives approved by regulators. Such depreciable lives have generally exceeded the
depreciable lives used by nonregulated entities. In addition, in accordance with
regulatory  accounting,  retirements of regulated  telephone  property have been
charged  to  accumulated  depreciation,  along with the costs of  removal,  less
salvage,  with no gain or loss recognized.  These regulatory accounting policies
have resulted in accumulated  depreciation being  significantly less than if the
Company's telephone operations had not been regulated.

    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 101 ("SFAS 101"), "Regulated
Enterprises  Accounting for the  Discontinuance of Application of FASB Statement
No. 71," specifies the accounting required when an enterprise ceases to meet the
criteria for  application  of SFAS 71. SFAS 101 requires the  elimination of the
effects of any actions of  regulators  that have been  recognized  as assets and
liabilities  in  accordance  with SFAS 71 but would not have been  recognized as
assets and liabilities by enterprises in general. SFAS 101 further provides that
the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment are to be adjusted only to
the extent the assets are  impaired and that  impairment  shall be judged in the
same manner as for  enterprises  in general.  The Company has not determined (i)
the amount of additional accumulated depreciation which will have to be recorded
nor (ii) the amount,  if any, by which  property,  plant and equipment  would be
impaired when the Company's regulated operations cease to become subject to SFAS
71. In addition,  deferred tax liabilities  and deferred  investment tax credits
will be impacted based on the change in the temporary  differences for property,
plant and equipment and accumulated depreciation.

    The ongoing  applicability of SFAS 71 to the Company's  regulated  telephone
operations is being  monitored due to the changing  regulatory,  competitive and
legislative environments. When the regulated operations of the Company no longer
qualify for the application of SFAS 71, the net adjustments required will result
in  a  material,  extraordinary,  noncash  charge  against  earnings.  Telephone
subsidiaries  accounting  and  reporting  for  regulatory  purposes  will not be
affected by the discontinued application of SFAS 71.

(13)    RETIREMENT AND SAVINGS PLANS

    Century  sponsors an Outside  Directors'  Retirement Plan and a Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan to provide directors and officers,  respectively, with
supplemental  retirement,  death  and  disability  benefits.  In  addition,  the
bargaining unit employees of a subsidiary are provided  benefits under a defined
benefit  pension plan. At December 31, 1995 and 1994,  the combined  accumulated
benefit  obligation  of the  plans,  substantially  all  of  which  was  vested,
aggregated $18.4 million and $15.2 million,  respectively. The projected benefit
obligation in excess of plan assets was $823,000 and $2.7 million as of December
31,  1995 and 1994,  respectively.  During  1995 and 1994  Century  funded  $2.5
million and $3.0 million, respectively, of the obligations of the plans. Prepaid
pension  cost was $2.5 million at December 31, 1995 and $525,000 at December 31,
1994. The net periodic  pension cost in 1995,  1994 and 1993 was $928,000,  $1.2
million and $1.1 million,  respectively.  Discount rates used in determining the
year end liabilities were 7.25% for 1995 and 8.5% for 1994.

    Century sponsors an Employee Stock Bonus Plan ("ESBP") and an Employee Stock
Ownership  Plan  ("ESOP").  These  plans cover most  employees  with one year of
service  with the  Company  and are funded by Company  contributions  determined
annually by the Board of  Directors.  Century also  sponsors a qualified  profit
sharing  plan  pursuant  to Section  401(k) of the  Internal  Revenue  Code (the
"401(k) Plan") which is available to substantially all employees of the Company.
The  Company's  matching  contributions  to the 401(k) Plan were $2.4 million in
1995 and 1994 and $2.0 million in 1993.

    The Company recorded contributions related to the ESBP in the amount of $1.6
million, $2.3 million and $1.8 million during 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
At December 31, 1995, the ESBP owned 4.3 million shares of Century common stock.

    The Company's  contributions to the ESOP approximate the ESOP's debt service
less dividends  received by the ESOP applicable to unallocated  shares. The ESOP
shares initially were pledged as collateral for its debt. As the debt is repaid,
shares are released from collateral based on the percentage of principal payment
to outstanding debt before applying the principal payment.  As of each year end,
such released shares are allocated to active employees.

    The ESOP had outstanding debt of $5.5 million at December 31, 1995 which was
applicable to shares purchased prior to 1993.  Interest  incurred by the ESOP on
debt applicable to such shares was $580,000, $728,000 and $895,000 in 1995, 1994
and 1993, respectively.  The Company contributed and expensed $2.3 million, $1.9
million and $2.6 million during 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively,  with respect
to such shares.  Dividends on  unallocated  ESOP shares used for debt service by
the ESOP were  $170,000  in 1995,  $288,000 in 1994 and  $335,000 in 1993.  ESOP
shares as of December 31, 1995 and 1994 which were purchased  prior to 1993 were
as follows:

December 31,                            1995          1994
- ----------------------------------------------------------
                                          (In thousands)

Allocated shares                       1,338         1,164
Unreleased shares                        490           707
- ----------------------------------------------------------
                                       1,828         1,871
==========================================================

    The Company accounts for shares purchased subsequent to December 31, 1992 in
accordance with Statement of Position 93-6 ("SOP 93-6").  Accordingly, as shares
are released from collateral,  the Company reports compensation expense equal to
the current  market price of the shares and the shares  become  outstanding  for
earnings per share computations. Dividends on allocated ESOP shares are recorded
as a reduction of retained  earnings;  dividends on unallocated  ESOP shares are
recorded as a reduction of debt. ESOP compensation  expense applicable to shares
purchased  subsequent  to 1992 was $1.3  million for 1995 and $605,000 for 1994.
The fair value of unreleased ESOP shares  accounted for under SOP 93-6 was $11.2
million  and  $11.7  million  at  December  31,  1995  and  December  31,  1994,
respectively. ESOP shares purchased subsequent to 1992 totaled 416,850, of which
62,527 were allocated and 354,323 were unreleased as of December 31, 1995.

(14)    MAJOR ACQUISITIONS

    In February  1994 the Company  acquired  Celutel  for  approximately  $106.0
million  in  a  stock  and  cash  transaction   accounted  for  as  a  purchase.
Approximately  $56.0  million of the purchase  price was paid in cash,  with the
remainder  paid  through the  issuance of  approximately  1.9 million  shares of
Century common stock.  At  acquisition,  Celutel  provided  cellular  service to
approximately 29,000 customers in five non-wireline  provider systems in MSAs in
Mississippi and Texas.

    In April 1993 the  Company  acquired  San  Marcos  Telephone  Company,  Inc.
("SMTC") in a stock and cash  transaction  and  acquired SM Telecorp,  Inc.,  an
affiliate of SMTC,  for cash.  The total  acquisition  price for both  companies
approximated  $100.0  million,  the stock  portion of which was  represented  by
approximately  2.2 million  shares of Century  common stock.  As a result of the
acquisitions,  which were  accounted  for as  purchases,  the  Company  acquired
approximately  22,500  telephone  access lines in and around San Marcos,  Texas,
along with a 35% ownership  interest in the Austin,  Texas MSA wireline cellular
market and a 9.6% interest in the Texas RSA #16 wireline cellular market.

    The following pro forma information  represents the consolidated  results of
operations  of the Company as if (i) the Celutel  acquisition  had been combined
with the  Company  as of  January  1 of 1994  and  1993 and (ii) the San  Marcos
acquisition had been combined with the Company as of January 1, 1993.

Year ended December 31,                         1994                   1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   (Dollars in thousands,
                                                  except per share amounts)
                                                         (unaudited)

Operating revenues                           $ 543,768               467,862
Net income                                   $  98,958                62,516
Fully diluted earnings per share             $    1.77                  1.15
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The pro forma  information  is not  necessarily  indicative of the operating
results that would have occured if each major  acquisition had been  consummated
as of January 1 of each respective period,  nor is it necessarily  indicative of
future  operating  results.  The actual  results of  operations  of an  acquired
company are included in the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements  only
from the date of acquisition.

(15)    SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW DISCLOSURES

    The Company paid interest of $45.8 million,  $40.8 million and $30.1 million
during 1995, 1994 and 1993,  respectively.  Income taxes paid were $62.4 million
in 1995, $41.3 million in 1994 and $37.1 million in 1993.

    Century has consummated  the  acquisition of various  telephone and cellular
operations,  along with  certain  other  assets,  during the three  years  ended
December 31, 1995. In connection with these  acquisitions,  the following assets
were acquired, liabilities assumed and common and preferred stock issued:

Year ended December 31,                           1995        1994       1993
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    (Dollars in thousands)

Property, plant and equipment                  $ 16,949      11,301     33,020
Excess cost of net assets acquired               70,124     152,239     85,251
Investments in unconsolidated 
  cellular entities                               2,804           -      7,508
Notes payable                                   (14,199)          -          -
Long-term debt                                  (38,147)    (46,478)   (18,609)
Deferred credits and other liabilities           (1,880)     (5,706)    (7,648)
Other assets and liabilities, excluding   
  cash and cash equivalents                       3,037      (1,191)     5,766
Common stock issued                             (16,558)    (52,311)   (68,172)
Preferred stock issued                                -      (1,875)         -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decrease in cash due to acquisitions           $ 22,130      55,979     37,116
==============================================================================

    Century has consummated  the  disposition of various  telephone and cellular
operations,  along with  certain  other  assets,  during the three  years  ended
December 31, 1995. In connection with these  dispositions,  the following assets
were sold, liabilities eliminated, assets received and gain recognized:

Year ended December 31,                         1995        1994       1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  (Dollars in thousands)

Property, plant and equipment               $  (4,399)     (2,673)         -
Excess cost of net assets acquired             (4,494)     (3,976)         -
Other assets and liabilities, excluding 
  cash and cash equivalents                    (4,278)        993      1,661
Assets of cellular system                           -      11,058          -
Gain on sales of assets                        (6,782)    (15,877)    (1,661)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Increase in cash due to dispositions        $ (19,953)    (10,475)         -
============================================================================

    In February 1995  Century's  $115.0  million of  outstanding  6% convertible
debentures were converted into Century common stock by the debenture  holders at
a conversion price of $25.33 per share.

(16)    BUSINESS SEGMENTS

    The  Company  operates in two  principal  segments -  traditional  telephone
services and mobile communications  services. The Company's telephone operations
are  conducted  in rural,  suburban  and small urban  communities  in 14 states.
Approximately  80% of the  Company's  telephone  access lines are in  Wisconsin,
Louisiana,  Michigan,  Ohio and Arkansas.  The Company's  cellular customers are
located primarily in Louisiana,  Michigan, Mississippi and Texas. Other accounts
receivable  are  primarily  amounts due from  various  long  distance  carriers,
principally AT&T, and several large local exchange operating companies.



Year ended December 31,                            1995        1994       1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     (Dollars in thousands)

Operating income                              $  202,919     172,806    128,009
Interest expense                                 (43,615)    (42,577)   (30,149)
Income from unconsolidated cellular entities      20,084      15,698      6,626
Gain on sales of assets                            6,782      15,877      1,661
Minority interest                                 (8,084)     (3,377)      (516)
Other income and expense                           4,982       3,111        625
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes                    $  183,068     161,538    106,256
===============================================================================
Capital expenditures
    Telephone                                 $  136,006     152,336    131,180
    Mobile Communications                     $   41,990      39,937     56,092
    Corporate and other                       $   18,596       8,503     16,957
===============================================================================
Identifiable assets
    Telephone                                 $1,114,827   1,053,950    969,388
    Mobile Communications                        547,260     430,777    224,913
    General corporate                            109,096      88,305     62,827
    Other                                         91,238      70,221     62,262
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total assets                                  $1,862,421   1,643,253  1,319,390
===============================================================================


(17)    FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    The following table presents the carrying  amounts and estimated fair values
of certain of the Company's financial instruments at December 31, 1995 and 1994.

                                                    Carrying        Fair
                                                     amount         value
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    (Dollars in thousands)
December 31, 1995
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Financial assets:
   Investments
     Note receivable (including current portion)   $  24,167       24,167  (1)
     Marketable equity securities                  $   8,478        8,672  (2)
     Other equity investment                       $  20,000       20,000  (1)
     Other                                         $   9,912        9,912  (1)

Financial liabilities:
   Long-term debt (including current maturities)   $ 638,229      638,383  (3)
   Other                                           $  13,043       13,043  (1)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

December 31, 1994
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Financial assets:
   Investments
     Note receivable (including current portion)   $  25,000       25,000  (1)
     Marketable equity securities                  $   8,478       10,127  (2)
     Other                                         $   9,069        9,069  (1)

Financial liabilities:
   Long-term debt (including current maturities)   $ 531,321      520,151  (3)
   Other                                           $  11,725       11,725  (1)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)  Fair value was estimated by the Company.
(2)  Fair value was based on quoted market prices.
(3)  Fair value was estimated by discounting  the scheduled  payment  streams to
present  value  based upon rates  currently  offered to the  Company for similar
debt.

Cash and cash equivalents,  accounts receivable, notes payable, accounts payable
and accrued  expenses - The carrying amount  approximates  the fair value due to
the short maturity of these instruments.

(18)    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    Construction  expenditures and investments in vehicles,  buildings and other
work  equipment  during 1996 are  estimated  to be $102  million  for  telephone
operations, $61 million for mobile communications operations and $26 million for
corporate and other operations.

    The Company is involved in various  claims and legal actions  arising in the
ordinary  course  of  business.  In the  opinion  of  management,  the  ultimate
disposition  of these  matters  will not have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.


                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
              Consolidated Quarterly Income Information (unaudited)



    The results of  operations  of  subsidiaries  of the  Company  which are not
included in telephone or mobile communications operations have been reclassified
to  operating  income  from other  income and  expense,  and the  provision  for
uncollectible  accounts  in  the  Company's  telephone  operations,   previously
reflected as a reduction in other revenues, has been reclassified as an expense.

    Fully  diluted  earnings  per  share for the first  quarter  and the  fourth
quarter of 1995 included $.03 and $.01 per share,  respectively,  of gain on the
sales of assets. Fully diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 1995
was reduced by $.04 per share related to cellular  commissions  incurred (during
the  fourth  quarter  of 1995 as  compared  to the  average  of the first  three
quarters  of 1995) as a result  of the  significant  increase  in the  number of
cellular subscribers activated during the quarter.

    Fully  diluted  earnings per share for the fourth  quarter of 1994  included
$.16 per share of gain on the sales of assets;  such  increase in fully  diluted
earnings per share was partially  offset by a decrease of $.03 per share related
to cellular  commissions incurred (during the fourth quarter of 1994 as compared
to the  average  of the  first  three  quarters  of  1994)  as a  result  of the
significant increase in the number of cellular subscribers  activated during the
quarter.

Item 9.        Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
               Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

        None.


                                    PART III

Item 10.       Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

      The name,  age and office(s)  held by each of the  Registrant's  executive
officers are shown below. Each of the executive  officers listed below serves at
the pleasure of the Board of Directors, except Mr. Williams who has entered into
an employment  agreement with the Registrant effective through May 1996 and from
year to year  thereafter  subject to the right of Mr. Williams or the Company to
terminate such agreement.


Name                      Age         Office(s) held with Century
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Clarke M. Williams        74          Chairman of the Board
                                        of Directors

Glen F. Post, III         43          Vice Chairman of the
                                        Board of Directors, President and Chief
                                        Executive Officer

R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.     44          Senior Vice President and Chief
                                        Financial Officer

W. Bruce Hanks            41          President - Telecommunications
                                        Services

Harvey P. Perry           51          Senior Vice President, General
                                        Counsel and Secretary

Kenneth R. Cole           48          President - Telephone Group

      Each of the  Registrant's  executive  officers has served as an officer of
the Registrant and/or one or more of its subsidiaries in varying  capacities for
more than the past 5 years.  Mr.  Cole has served as  President-Telephone  Group
since January 1995 and as Vice President from 1983 to 1994.

      The  balance of the  information  required by Item 10 is  incorporated  by
reference to the Registrant's  definitive  proxy statement  relating to its 1996
annual meeting of stockholders  (the "Proxy  Statement"),  which Proxy Statement
will be filed  pursuant to  Regulation  14A within 120 days after the end of the
last fiscal year.

Item 11.       Executive Compensation.

      The  information  required by Item 11 is  incorporated by reference to the
Proxy Statement.

Item 12.       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

      The  information  required by Item 12 is  incorporated by reference to the
Proxy Statement.

Item 13.       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

      The  information  required by Item 13 is  incorporated by reference to the
Proxy Statement.


                                     PART IV

Item 14.       Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

        a.     Financial Statements

               (i) Consolidated Financial Statements:

                      Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated Financial
                         Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

                      Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended
                         December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

                      Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1995 and 1994

                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years
                         Ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

                      Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the
                         Years Ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

                      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                      Consolidated Quarterly Income Information (unaudited)

               (ii) Schedules:*

                      I    Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                      II   Valuation And Qualifying Accounts

                       *  Those schedules not listed above are omitted as not
                              applicable or not required.

        b.     Reports on Form 8-K.

               The following item was reported in the Form 8-K dated November 7,
                   1995:
                        Item 5. Other Events - News release  reporting  results
                                of operations for the quarter  ended September 
                                30, 1995.

               The following item was reported in the Form 8-K dated November 
                   29,  1995:
                        Item 5. Other Events - News release reporting 
                                investment in GO Communications Corporation.

        c.     Exhibits:

             3(i)         Amended  and  Restated  Articles of  Incorporation  of
                          Registrant,  dated as of May 23, 1995 (incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registration No.33-60061).

             3(ii)        Registrant's  Bylaws, as amended through May 23, 1995
                          (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit  4.2  to
                          Registration No. 33-60061).

             4.1          Competitive  Advance and  Revolving  Credit  Facility
                          Agreement, dated October 17, 1995, between Registrant
                          and  Bank  One  of  Texas,   N.A.   (incorporated  by
                          reference  to Exhibit 4.2 to  Registrant's  Quarterly
                          Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  September
                          30, 1995).

             4.2          Note  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  September  1, 1989,
                          between  Registrant,  Teachers  Insurance  and Annuity
                          Association  of America and the Lincoln  National Life
                          Insurance   Company   (incorporated  by  reference  to
                          Exhibit 4.23 to Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form
                          10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1989).

             4.12         Amended  and  Restated  Rights  Agreement  dated as of
                          November   17,   1986   between   Century    Telephone
                          Enterprises,  Inc. and the Rights Agent named  therein
                          (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   4.1  to
                          Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December
                          20, 1988), the Amendment  thereto dated March 26, 1990
                          (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   4.1  to
                          Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the
                          quarter ended March 31, 1990) and the Second Amendment
                          thereto  dated  February  23,  1993  (incorporated  by
                          reference  to  Exhibit  4.12  to  Registrant's  Annual
                          Report on Form 10-K for the year  ended  December  31,
                          1992).

             4.16         Note  Purchase  Agreement,  dated May 6,  1986,  among
                          Registrant, Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association
                          of America,  Aetna Life Insurance  Company,  the Aetna
                          Casualty  and  Surety  Company  and  Lincoln  National
                          Pension Insurance  Company  (incorporated by reference
                          to  Exhibit  4.23  to   Registration   No.   33-5836),
                          Amendatory    Agreement   dated   November   1,   1986
                          (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   4.2  to
                          Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year
                          ended  December 31,  1986),  amendment  thereto  dated
                          November 1, 1987 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                          4.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                          year ended December 31, 1987) and Modification  Letter
                          dated September 1, 1989  (incorporated by reference to
                          Exhibit 19.6 to Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form
                          10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1989).

             4.22         Form of common  stock  certificate  of the  Registrant
                          (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   4.1  to
                          Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the
                          quarter ended June 30, 1993).

             4.24         Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated February 7,
                          1992 between Registrant and NationsBank of Texas, N.A.
                          (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit  4.24  to
                          Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year
                          ended  December 31,  1991),  amendment  thereto  dated
                          April 8, 1993  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
                          19.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                          the quarter ended March 31, 1993),  amendment  thereto
                          dated  July 9,  1993  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                          Exhibit  4.24 to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form
                          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993),  amendment
                          thereto  dated  August  15,  1994   (incorporated   by
                          reference  to Exhibit 4.1 to  Registrant's  Quarterly
                          Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  September
                          30, 1994) and amendment  thereto dated October 5, 1995
                          (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit   4.1  to
                          Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the
                          quarter ended September 30, 1995).

             4.25         Indenture  dated  as of March  31,  1994  between  the
                          Company and Regions Bank of Louisiana  (formerly First
                          American  Bank  &  Trust  of  Louisiana),  as  Trustee
                          (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  of the
                          Company's   Registration   Statement   on  Form   S-3,
                          Registration No. 33-52915).

             4.26         Resolutions  adopted by the Executive Committee of the
                          Board of Directors on April 29, 1994  designating  the
                          terms and  conditions of the  Company's  7-3/4% Senior
                          Notes,  Series A, due 2004 and  8-1/4%  Senior  Notes,
                          Series B, due 2024 ("Senior  Notes")  (incorporated by
                          reference  to Exhibit  4.1 to  Registrant's  Quarterly
                          Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,
                          1994).

             4.27         Resolutions  adopted by the Special Pricing  Committee
                          of  the  Board  of  Directors  on  November  27,  1995
                          designating  the terms and conditions of the Company's
                          6.55% Senior Notes, Series C, due 2005 and 7.2% Senior
                          Notes,  Series D, due 2025 ("Senior Notes"),  included
                          elsewhere herein.

             4.28         Form of Senior  Notes  (incorporated  by  reference to
                          Exhibit 4.3 of the Company's Registration Statement on
                          Form S-3, Registration No. 33-52915).

             10.1         Employee Benefit Plans

                          (a) Registrant's  Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan and
                              Trust,  as amended and restated  December 30, 1994
                              (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                              quarter   ended  March  31,  1995)  and  amendment
                              thereto dated January 26, 1996, included elsewhere
                              herein.

                          (b) Registrant's  Stock Bonus Plan,  PAYSOP and Trust,
                              as  amended  and   restated   December   30,  1994
                              (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.2 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                              quarter ended March 31, 1995),  amendment  thereto
                              dated July 11, 1995  (incorporated by reference to
                              Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on
                              Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995) and
                              amendment thereto dated January 26, 1996, included
                              elsewhere herein.

                          (c) Registrant's  Dollars & Sense Plan and  Trust,  as
                              amended and restated, generally effective April 1,
                              1992 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
                              Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the
                              year ended December 31, 1994).

                          (d) Registrant's   Restated   Supplemental   Executive
                              Retirement   Plan,   generally   effective  as  of
                              November 16, 1995, included elsewhere herein.

                          (e) Registrant's  1983  Restricted  Stock Plan,  dated
                              February 21,  1984,  as amended and restated as of
                              November 16, 1995, included elsewhere herein.

                          (f) Registrant's Key Employee  Incentive  Compensation
                              Plan,  dated  January  1,  1984,  as  amended  and
                              restated  as  of  November  16,   1995,   included
                              elsewhere herein.

                          (g) Registrant's 1988 Incentive  Compensation  Program
                              as  amended   and   restated   August   22,   1989
                              (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  19.8 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                              quarter ended September 30, 1989).

                          (h) Form of Stock  Option  Agreement  entered  into in
                              1988 by the Registrant, pursuant to 1988 Incentive
                              Compensation Program, with certain of its officers
                              (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.10 to
                              Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the
                              year  ended   December  31,  1988)  and  amendment
                              thereto  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6
                              to Registrant's Registration No. 33-31314).

                          (i) Registrant's 1990 Incentive  Compensation Program,
                              dated March 15, 1990 (incorporated by reference to
                              Exhibit 19.1 to Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on
                              Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1990).

                          (j) Form of Stock  Option  Agreement  entered  into in
                              1990 by the Registrant, pursuant to 1990 Incentive
                              Compensation Program, with certain of its officers
                              (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  19.3 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                              quarter ended June 30, 1990) and amendment thereto
                              dated  as  of  May  22,  1995   (incorporated   by
                              reference   to   Exhibit   10.1  to   Registrant's
                              Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the  quarter
                              ended September 30, 1995).

                          (k) Form of Stock  Option  Agreement  entered  into in
                              1992 by the Registrant, pursuant to 1990 Incentive
                              Compensation Program, with certain of its officers
                              and  employees   (incorporated   by  reference  to
                              Exhibit  10.17 to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                              Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,  1992)
                              and  amendment  thereto  dated as of May 22,  1995
                              (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.2 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                              quarter ended September 30, 1995).

                          (l) Registrant's 1995 Incentive Compensation Plan
                              approved by Registrant's shareholders on May 11,
                              1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4
                              to Registration No. 33-60061).

                          (m) Form of Stock Option  Agreement,  pursuant to 1995
                              Incentive  Compensation  Plan and  dated as of May
                              22,  1995,  entered  into  by  Registrant  and its
                              officers  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit
                              10.5 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on From 10-Q
                              for the quarter ended June 30, 1995).

                          (n) Form of Stock Option  Agreement,  pursuant to 1995
                              Incentive  Compensation  Plan and dated as of June
                              23, 1995,  entered into by Registrant  and certain
                              key  employees   (incorporated   by  reference  to
                              Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on
                              Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995).

                          (o) Form of Performance Share Agreement Under the 1990
                              Incentive  Compensation  Program,  entered into in
                              1993 with certain of its  officers  and  employees
                              (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  28.1 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                              quarter   ended  March  31,  1993)  and  amendment
                              thereto dated as of May 22, 1995  (incorporated by
                              reference   to   Exhibit   10.3  to   Registrant's
                              Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the  quarter
                              ended September 30, 1995).

                          (p) Form of Restricted Stock Agreement and Performance
                              Share   Agreement   Under   the   1988   Incentive
                              Compensation  Program,  entered  into in 1993 with
                              certain   of   its    officers    and    employees
                              (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  28.2 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                              quarter   ended  March  31,  1993)  and  amendment
                              thereto dated as of May 22, 1995  (incorporated by
                              reference   to   Exhibit   10.4  to   Registrant's
                              Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the  quarter
                              ended September 30, 1995).

                          (q) Registrant's    Restated    Supplemental   Defined
                              Contribution  Plan, dated as of November 16, 1995,
                              included elsewhere herein.

                          (r) Registrant's  Amended  and  Restated  Supplemental
                              Dollars & Sense Plan,  effective  as of January 1,
                              1995  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.22
                              to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                              year ended December 31, 1994).

                          (s) Registrant's    Amended   and   Restated    Salary
                              Continuation (Disability) Plan for Officers, dated
                              November  26, 1991  (incorporated  by reference to
                              Exhibit  10.16 of  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                              Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991).

                          (t) Registrant's     Restated    Outside    Directors'
                              Retirement  Plan,  dated as of November  16, 1995,
                              included elsewhere herein.

                          (u) Registrant's  Restated Deferred  Compensation Plan
                              for Outside  Directors,  dated as of November  16,
                              1995, included elsewhere herein.

             10.2         Employment, Severance and Related Agreements

                          (a) Employment  Agreement,  dated May 24, 1993, by and
                              between   Clarke  M.   Williams   and   Registrant
                              (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  19.1 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                              quarter ended June 30, 1993) and amendment thereto
                              dated as of February 27, 1996,  included elsewhere
                              herein.

                          (b) Form of Amended and Restated Severance  Agreement,
                              by  and  between   Registrant   and  each  of  its
                              executive  officers other than Clarke M. Williams,
                              dated as of November 16, 1995,  included elsewhere
                              herein.

                          (c) Form of Amended and Restated Severance  Agreement,
                              by and between  Registrant and six of its officers
                              who  are  not  executive  officers,  dated  as  of
                              November 16, 1995, included elsewhere herein.

                          (d) Agreement, dated December 31, 1994, by and between
                              Jim D.  Reppond and  Registrant  (incorporated  by
                              reference to Exhibit 10.24 to Registrant's  Annual
                              Report  on Form 10-K for the year  ended  December
                              31, 1994).

             10.3         Other Agreements

                          (a) Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 8, 
                              1993, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated
                              January 5, 1994 by and among Registrant,
                              Celutel Acquisition Corp., Celutel, Inc. and the 
                              Principal Stockholders of Celutel, Inc. 
                              (incorporated by reference to Appendix I of
                              Registrant's Prospectus forming a part of its 
                              Registration Statement No.33-50791 filed January 
                              12, 1994 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5)).

                          (b) Loan  Agreement  and  Grant  of  Rights  of  First
                              Refusal to Acquire  Assets and/or Capital Stock of
                              MillTenn, Inc. and its Subsidiaries  (incorporated
                              by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  to  Registrant's
                              Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the  quarter
                              ended March 31, 1994).

             11           Computations of Earnings Per Share, included else-
                          where herein.

             21           Subsidiaries of the Registrant, included elsewhere
                          herein.

             23           Independent Auditors' Consent, included elsewhere 
                          herein.

             27           Financial Data Schedule, included elsewhere herein.
                                              

                                   SIGNATURES


      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                     CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.


Date:  March 18, 1996            By:   /s/ Clarke M. Williams
                                         -------------------------
                                            Clarke M. Williams
                                            Chairman of the Board

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


/s/ Clarke M. Williams       
- -------------------------     Chairman of the Board        
Clarke M. Williams              of Directors                    March 18, 1996

                              
/s/ Glen F. Post, III         Vice Chairman of the
- -------------------------       Board of Directors, 
Glen F. Post, III               President, and Chief
                                Executive Officer               March 18, 1996


                              
/s/ R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.     Senior Vice President
- -------------------------       and Chief Financial
R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.           Officer                         March 18, 1996


                             
/s/ Harvey P. Perry           Senior Vice President,
- -------------------------       Secretary, General
Harvey P. Perry                 Counsel and Director            March 18, 1996



/s/ W. Bruce Hanks            
- -------------------------     President - Telecommunications
W. Bruce Hanks                  Services and Director           March 18, 1996



/s/ Murray H. Greer           
- -------------------------     Controller (Principal
Murray H. Greer                 Accounting Officer)             March 18, 1996



/s/ William R. Boles, Jr.     
- -------------------------     Director
William R. Boles, Jr.                                           March 18, 1996



/s/ Virginia Boulet
- -------------------------     Director
Virginia Boulet                                                 March 18, 1996



/s/ Ernest Butler, Jr. 
- -------------------------     Director
Ernest Butler, Jr.                                              March 18, 1996



- -------------------------     Director
Calvin Czeschin                                                 March __, 1996



/s/ James B. Gardner
- -------------------------     Director
James B. Gardner                                                March 18, 1996



/s/ R. L. Hargrove, Jr.
- -------------------------     Director
R. L. Hargrove, Jr.                                             March 18, 1996



/s/ Johnny Hebert
- -------------------------     Director
Johnny Hebert                                                   March 18, 1996



/s/ F. Earl Hogan
- -------------------------     Director
F. Earl Hogan                                                   March 18, 1996



/s/ C. G. Melville, Jr.
- -------------------------     Director
C. G. Melville, Jr.                                             March 18, 1996



/s/ Jim D. Reppond            Director                          
- -------------------------  
Jim D. Reppond                                                  March 18, 1996



           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                              STATEMENTS OF INCOME



                                                   Year ended December 31,
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               1995         1994         1993
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    (Dollars in thousands)


REVENUES                                   $   5,608        6,190        5,860
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EXPENSES
        Operating expenses                     5,165        5,400        6,014
        Depreciation and amortization          6,860        6,603        5,877
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Total expenses                     12,025       12,003       11,891
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OPERATING LOSS                                (6,417)      (5,813)      (6,031)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
        Interest expense                     (37,467)     (34,463)     (20,678)
        Interest income                       30,930       24,088       10,696
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Total other income (expense)       (6,537)     (10,375)      (9,982)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LOSS BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND
   EQUITY IN SUBSIDIARIES' EARNINGS          (12,954)     (16,188)     (16,013)

Income tax benefit                             3,769        3,205        5,037
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LOSS BEFORE EQUITY IN
   SUBSIDIARIES' EARNINGS                     (9,185)     (12,983)     (10,976)

Equity in subsidiaries' earnings             123,961      113,221       79,980
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET INCOME                                 $ 114,776      100,238       69,004
==============================================================================

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.



           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (continued)
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                                 BALANCE SHEETS

                                                            December 31,
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        1995           1994
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       (Dollars in thousands)
                                   ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
        Cash and cash equivalents                  $     1,616         3,097
        Receivables from subsidiaries                   94,217       126,821
        Other receivables                                9,888           941
        Prepayments and other                            1,854           844
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Total current assets                        107,575       131,703
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
        Property and equipment                             983           932
        Accumulated depreciation                          (583)         (524)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Net property, plant and equipment               400           408
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS
        Investments in subsidiaries (at equity)      1,166,186     1,032,991
        Receivables from subsidiaries                  139,631       155,156
        Other investments                               50,620        27,919
        Note receivable                                 22,500        24,167
        Deferred charges                                 5,010         5,599
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Total investments and other assets        1,383,947     1,245,832
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL ASSETS                                       $ 1,491,922     1,377,943
============================================================================

                          LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
        Current maturities of long-term debt       $     5,516         5,481
        Notes payable to banks                               -       158,000
        Payables to subsidiaries                       143,793       155,551
        Accrued interest                                 4,424         7,345
        Other accrued liabilities                        4,377        11,420
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Total current liabilities                   158,110       337,797
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LONG-TERM DEBT                                         392,018       342,334
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAYABLES TO SUBSIDIARIES                                35,684        34,197
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER LIABILITIES                  17,686        13,379
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
        Common stock, $1.00 par value, authorized
           175,000,000 shares, issued and 
           outstanding 59,113,670
           and 53,574,361 shares                        59,114        53,574
        Paid-in capital                                453,584       319,235
        Retained earnings                              387,424       291,999
        Unearned ESOP shares                           (13,960)      (16,840)
        Preferred stock - non-redeemable                 2,262         2,268
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Total stockholders' equity                  888,424       650,236
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                       $ 1,491,922     1,377,943
============================================================================

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.



           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (Continued)
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (continued)
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
             NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT



(A)   LONG-TERM DEBT

      The   approximate   annual  debt   maturities   (including   sinking  fund
requirements) for the five years subsequent to December 31, 1995 are as follows:

                               1996 -  $5.5 million
                               1997 -  $5.0 million
                               1998 -  $4.7 million
                               1999 -  $4.3 million
                               2000 - $57.7 million

(B)   GUARANTEES

      As of December 31, 1995,  Century has  guaranteed a promissory  note for a
subsidiary  of $2.6  million,  as well as the  applicable  interest and premium.
Century has also  guaranteed  $905,000 in Industrial  Development  Revenue Bonds
originally  issued by a subsidiary;  such bonds were assumed by the purchaser of
the subsidiary's assets.

(C)   DIVIDENDS FROM SUBSIDIARIES

      Dividends paid to Century by consolidated subsidiaries were $52.4 million,
$3.8 million and $908,000 during 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

(D)   INCOME TAXES AND INTEREST PAID

      Income  taxes  paid  by  Century   (including   amounts   reimbursed  from
subsidiaries)  were $56.9 million,  $35.0 million and $31.5 million during 1995,
1994 and 1993, respectively.

      Interest  paid by  Century  was $40.4  million,  $32.0  million  and $20.9
million during 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

(E)   AFFILIATED TRANSACTIONS

      Century  provides and bills  management  services to  subsidiaries  and in
certain  instances makes interest  bearing  advances to finance  construction of
plant and purchases of equipment.  Century recorded intercompany interest income
of $28.2  million,  $22.2  million  and $10.6  million  in 1995,  1994 and 1993,
respectively.



                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.

              For the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993






                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                December 31, 1995
Exhibit
Number
- -------
 3(i)      Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Registrant, dated 
           as of May 23, 1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to 
           Registration No. 33-60061).

 3(ii)     Registrant's Bylaws, as amended through May 23, 1995 (incorporated 
           by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Registration No. 33-60061).

 4.1       Competitive  Advance and Revolving Credit Facility  Agreement,  dated
           October 17,  1995,  between  Registrant  and Bank One of Texas,  N.A.
           (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant's  Quarterly
           Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995).

 4.2       Note Purchase Agreement, dated September 1, 1989, between Registrant,
           Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America and the Lincoln
           National Life Insurance Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
           4.23 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
           ended September 30, 1989).

 4.12      Amended and Restated  Rights  Agreement dated as of November 17, 1986
           between  Century  Telephone  Enterprises,  Inc.  and the Rights Agent
           named   therein   (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to
           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 20, 1988), the
           Amendment thereto dated March 26, 1990  (incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit  4.1 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
           quarter ended March 31, 1990) and the Second Amendment  thereto dated
           February  23, 1993  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  4.12 to
           Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December
           31, 1992).

 4.16      Note  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  May  6,  1986,  among  Registrant,
           Teachers  Insurance and Annuity  Association  of America,  Aetna Life
           Insurance Company,  the Aetna Casualty and Surety Company and Lincoln
           National  Pension  Insurance  Company  (incorporated  by reference to
           Exhibit 4.23 to Registration No. 33-5836), Amendatory Agreement dated
           November  1,  1986  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.2 to
           Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December
           31, 1986),  amendment thereto dated November 1, 1987 (incorporated by
           reference to Exhibit 4.2 to  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
           for the year ended December 31, 1987) and  Modification  Letter dated
           September  1, 1989  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  19.6 to
           Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended
           September 30, 1989).

 4.22      Form of common stock  certificate of the Registrant  (incorporated by
           reference  to Exhibit 4.1 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
           10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993).

 4.24      Revolving Credit Facility  Agreement,  dated February 7, 1992 between
           Registrant and NationsBank of Texas, N.A.  (incorporated by reference
           to Exhibit 4.24 to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
           year ended December 31, 1991),  amendment thereto dated April 8, 1993
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.2 to Registrant's  Quarterly
           Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1993),  amendment
           thereto dated July 9, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.24
           to  Registrant's  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
           December  31,  1993),   amendment   thereto  dated  August  15,  1994
           (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's  Quarterly
           Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  September  30,  1994) and
           amendment thereto dated October 5, 1995 (incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit  4.1 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
           quarter ended September 30, 1995).

 4.25      Indenture  dated as of March 31, 1994 between the Company and Regions
           Bank  of  Louisiana   (formerly   First  American  Bank  &  Trust  of
           Louisiana),  as Trustee  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of
           the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No.
           33-52915).

 4.26      Resolutions  adopted  by the  Executive  Committee  of the  Board  of
           Directors on April 29, 1994  designating  the terms and conditions of
           the  Company's  7-3/4%  Senior  Notes,  Series A, due 2004 and 8-1/4%
           Senior Notes,  Series B, due 2024 ("Senior  Notes")  (incorporated by
           reference  to Exhibit 4.1 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
           10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994).

 4.27      Resolutions  adopted by the Special Pricing Committee of the Board of
           Directors on November 27, 1995  designating  the terms and conditions
           of the  Company's  6.55%  Senior  Notes,  Series C, due 2005 and 7.2%
           Senior Notes, Series D, due 2025 ("Senior Notes"), included herein.

 4.28      Form of Senior Notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the
           Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-3,  Registration  No.
           33-52915).

 10.1      Employee Benefit Plans

           (a)    Registrant's  Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan and  Trust,  as
                  amended  and  restated  December  30,  1994  (incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's  Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended March 31, 1995) and amendment
                  thereto dated January 26, 1996, included herein.

           (b)    Registrant's  Stock Bonus Plan,  PAYSOP and Trust,  as amended
                  and restated  December 30, 1994  (incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                  the quarter  ended March 31,  1995),  amendment  thereto dated
                  July 11, 1995  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
                  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                  ended June 30, 1995) and  amendment  thereto dated January 26,
                  1996, included herein.

           (c)    Registrant's  Dollars & Sense Plan and Trust,  as amended  and
                  restated,  generally  effective April 1, 1992 (incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit  10.7 to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994).

           (d)    Registrant's Restated Supplemental  Executive Retirement Plan,
                  generally effective as of November 16, 1995, included herein.

           (e)    Registrant's  1983 Restricted  Stock Plan,  dated February 21,
                  1984,  as  amended  and  restated  as of  November  16,  1995,
                  included herein.

           (f)    Registrant's Key Employee  Incentive  Compensation Plan, dated
                  January 1, 1984,  as amended and  restated as of November  16,
                  1995, included herein.

           (g)    Registrant's  1988 Incentive  Compensation  Program as amended
                  and  restated  August 22, 1989  (incorporated  by reference to
                  Exhibit 19.8 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                  the quarter ended September 30, 1989).

           (h)    Form of Stock  Option  Agreement  entered  into in 1988 by the
                  Registrant,  pursuant to 1988 Incentive  Compensation Program,
                  with  certain of its  officers  (incorporated  by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.10 to  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                  the year  ended  December  31,  1988)  and  amendment  thereto
                  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  4.6 to  Registrant's
                  Registration No. 33-31314).

           (i)    Registrant's 1990 Incentive  Compensation Program, dated March
                  15,  1990  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  19.1  to
                  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                  ended June 30, 1990).

           (j)    Form of Stock  Option  Agreement  entered  into in 1990 by the
                  Registrant,  pursuant to 1990 Incentive  Compensation Program,
                  with  certain of its  officers  (incorporated  by reference to
                  Exhibit 19.3 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                  the quarter ended June 30, 1990) and  amendment  thereto dated
                  as of May 22, 1995  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                  to Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                  ended September 30, 1995).

           (k)    Form of Stock  Option  Agreement  entered  into in 1992 by the
                  Registrant,  pursuant to 1990 Incentive  Compensation Program,
                  with certain of its officers and  employees  (incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit  10.17 to  Registrant's  Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1992) and amendment
                  thereto dated as of May 22, 1995 (incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                  the quarter ended September 30, 1995).

           (l)    Registrant's  1995  Incentive  Compensation  Plan  approved by
                  Registrant's  shareholders  on May 11, 1995  (incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Registration No.
                  33-60061).

           (m)    Form of Stock  Option  Agreement,  pursuant to 1995  Incentive
                  Compensation  Plan and dated as of May 22, 1995,  entered into
                  by Registrant and its officers  (incorporated  by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on From 10-Q for
                  the quarter ended June 30, 1995).

           (n)    Form of Stock  Option  Agreement,  pursuant to 1995  Incentive
                  Compensation Plan and dated as of June 23, 1995,  entered into
                  by  Registrant  and certain  key  employees  (incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant's  Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995).

           (o)    Form of Performance  Share  Agreement Under the 1990 Incentive
                  Compensation Program, entered into in 1993 with certain of its
                  officers and employees  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                  28.1 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the
                  quarter ended March 31, 1993) and  amendment  thereto dated as
                  of May 22, 1995  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
                  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                  ended September 30, 1995).

           (p)    Form of  Restricted  Stock  Agreement  and  Performance  Share
                  Agreement  Under  the  1988  Incentive  Compensation  Program,
                  entered  into  in  1993  with  certain  of  its  officers  and
                  employees  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  28.2  to
                  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                  ended March 31, 1993) and  amendment  thereto  dated as of May
                  22,  1995  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.4  to
                  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                  ended September 30, 1995).

           (q)    Registrant's  Restated Supplemental Defined Contribution Plan,
                  dated as of November 16, 1995, included herein.

           (r)    Registrant's Amended and Restated Supplemental Dollars & Sense
                  Plan,  effective  as  of  January  1,  1995  (incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit  10.22 to  Registrant's  Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994).

           (s)    Registrant's   Amended  and   Restated   Salary   Continuation
                  (Disability)  Plan  for  Officers,  dated  November  26,  1991
                  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.16 of  Registrant's
                  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year  ended  December  31,
                  1991).

           (t)    Registrant's  Restated  Outside  Directors'  Retirement  Plan,
                  dated as of November 16, 1995, included herein.

           (u)    Registrant's  Restated Deferred  Compensation Plan for Outside
                  Directors, dated as of November 16, 1995, included herein.

 10.2      Employment, Severance and Related Agreements

           (a)    Employment  Agreement,  dated  May 24,  1993,  by and  between
                  Clarke M. Williams and Registrant  (incorporated  by reference
                  to Exhibit 19.1 to Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                  for the quarter  ended June 30,  1993) and  amendment  thereto
                  dated as of February 27, 1996, included herein.

           (b)    Form of  Amended  and  Restated  Severance  Agreement,  by and
                  between  Registrant  and each of its executive  officers other
                  than  Clarke  M.  Williams,  dated as of  November  16,  1995,
                  included herein.

           (c)    Form of  Amended  and  Restated  Severance  Agreement,  by and
                  between  Registrant  and  six  of its  officers  who  are  not
                  executive  officers,  dated as of November 16, 1995,  included
                  herein.

           (d)    Agreement,  dated  December  31,  1994,  by and between Jim D.
                  Reppond and Registrant  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                  10.24 to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1994).

 10.3      Other Agreements

           (a)    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 8, 1993, as amended
                  by Amendment  No. 1 thereto dated January 5, 1994 by and among
                  Registrant,  Celutel Acquisition Corp.,  Celutel, Inc. and the
                  Principal  Stockholders  of  Celutel,  Inc.  (incorporated  by
                  reference to Appendix I of Registrant's  Prospectus  forming a
                  part of its Registration  Statement No. 33-50791 filed January
                  12, 1994 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5)).

           (b)    Loan Agreement and Grant of Rights of First Refusal to Acquire
                  Assets  and/or  Capital  Stock  of  MillTenn,   Inc.  and  its
                  Subsidiaries  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 10.1 to
                  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                  ended March 31, 1994).

 11        Computations of Earnings Per Share, included herein.

 21        Subsidiaries of the Registrant, included herein.

 23        Independent Auditors' Consent, included herein.

 27        Financial Data Schedule, included herein.






