
10-K
0001.txt
FORM 10-K FYE 12/31/2000




                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

           [ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                                       or

          [ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file number 1-7784

                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                Louisiana                                     72-0651161
     (State or other jurisdiction of                         (IRS Employer
     incorporation or organization)                       Identification No.)

100 CenturyTel Drive, Monroe, Louisiana                          71203
(Address of principal executive offices)                      (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code - (318) 388-9000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

        Title of each class           Name of each exchange on which registered
        -------------------           -----------------------------------------

   Common Stock, par value $1.00              New York Stock Exchange
                                              Berlin Stock Exchange
 Preference Share Purchase Rights             New York Stock Exchange
                                              Berlin Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:     None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

As of February  28,  2001,  the  aggregate  market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates  (affiliates  being for these purposes only directors,  executive
officers  and  holders of more than five  percent of the  Company's  outstanding
voting  securities)  was $4.0  billion.  As of  February  28,  2001,  there were
140,974,996 shares of common stock outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Portions of the  Registrant's  Proxy  Statement  prepared in connection with the
2001 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated in Part III of this Report.



                                     PART I

Item 1.       Business

      General.   CenturyTel,   Inc.  ("CenturyTel")  is  a  regional  integrated
communications  company engaged primarily in providing local exchange  telephone
services and wireless  communications  services. For the year ended December 31,
2000, local exchange telephone  operations and wireless  operations provided 68%
and 24%,  respectively,  of the  consolidated  revenues  of  CenturyTel  and its
subsidiaries  (the  "Company").  All of the Company's  operations  are conducted
within the continental United States.

      At December 31, 2000, the Company's local exchange telephone  subsidiaries
operated over 1.8 million telephone access lines,  primarily in rural,  suburban
and small urban areas in 21 states,  with the largest  customer bases located in
Wisconsin,  Arkansas,  Washington,  Missouri,  Michigan, Louisiana and Colorado.
According to published sources, the Company is the eighth largest local exchange
telephone  company in the  United  States  based on the  number of access  lines
served. For more information, see "Telephone Operations."

      At December 31, 2000, the Company's  majority-owned  and operated cellular
systems  (i)  served   approximately   751,000   customers  in  19  Metropolitan
Statistical  Areas  ("MSAs") and 22 Rural  Service  Areas  ("RSAs") in Michigan,
Louisiana,  Arkansas,  Mississippi,  Wisconsin  and Texas and (ii) had access to
approximately  7.6 million  cellular pops (the estimated  population of licensed
cellular  telephone  markets  multiplied by the Company's  proportionate  equity
interest in the licensed operators  thereof).  At December 31, 2000, the Company
also  owned  minority  equity  interests  in 10 MSAs and 16  RSAs,  representing
approximately  1.9  million  cellular  pops.  According  to  data  derived  from
published sources,  the Company is the eighth largest cellular telephone company
in the United States based on the Company's 9.5 million aggregate pops. For more
information, see "Wireless Operations."

      The Company also  provides long  distance,  Internet  access,  competitive
local  exchange  carrier,   broadband  data,  security  monitoring,   and  other
communications and business  information  services in certain local and regional
markets. For more information, see "Other Operations."

      Recent  acquisitions and dispositions.  On July 31, 2000 and September 29,
2000, affiliates of the Company acquired over 490,000 telephone access lines and
related assets from Verizon Communications,  Inc. (successor to GTE Corporation)
("Verizon")  in four separate  transactions  for  approximately  $1.5 billion in
cash. Under these transactions:

o       On July 31, 2000, the Company purchased  approximately 231,000 telephone
        access lines and related local exchange assets  comprising 106 exchanges
        throughout Arkansas for approximately $842 million in cash.

o       On  July  31,  2000,  Spectra   Communications  Group,  LLC  ("Spectra")
        purchased approximately 127,000 telephone access lines and related local
        exchange  assets  comprising  107  exchanges   throughout  Missouri  for
        approximately  $297 million cash.  As of December 31, 2000,  the Company
        owned 57.1% of Spectra, which was organized to acquire and operate these
        Missouri  properties.  At closing,  the Company made a preferred  equity
        investment  in  Spectra  of  approximately   $55  million  and  financed
        substantially all of the remainder of the purchase price.

o       On  September  29,  2000,  the Company  purchased  approximately  70,500
        telephone  access lines and related local exchange assets  comprising 42
        exchanges throughout Wisconsin for approximately $197 million in cash.

o       On September  29,  2000,  Telephone  USA of  Wisconsin,  LLC  ("TelUSA")
        purchased  approximately 62,900 telephone access lines and related local
        exchange  assets  comprising  35  exchanges   throughout  Wisconsin  for
        approximately  $172  million in cash.  The  Company  owns 89% of TelUSA,
        which was organized to acquire and own these  Wisconsin  properties.  At
        closing,   the  Company   made  an  equity   investment   in  TelUSA  of
        approximately  $37.8  million  and  financed  substantially  all  of the
        remainder of the purchase price.

      In August  2000,  the  Company  acquired  the assets of CSW Net,  Inc.,  a
regional  Internet service  provider that offers dial-up and dedicated  Internet
access,  and web site and domain  hosting to more than  14,000  customers  in 28
communities in Arkansas.

      In November  1999,  the Company  acquired the assets of DigiSys,  Inc., an
Internet  service  provider in Kalispell,  Montana.  DigiSys  provides  Internet
services to more than 8,600 customers in Montana and operates MontanaWeb, one of
the largest online business directories in the state.

      In October 1999, the Company acquired the non-wireline cellular license to
serve  Mississippi  RSA  #5,  which  covers  160,000  pops.  Mississippi  RSA #5
encompasses  the  Vicksburg  and  Greenville  markets  as  well as  portions  of
Interstate Highway 20 between Jackson, Mississippi and Monroe, Louisiana.

      On  December  1,  1998,  the  Company  acquired  the  assets of certain of
Ameritech's  telephone  operations  and  related  telephone  directories  in  19
telephone  exchanges  covering 21 communities in northern and central  Wisconsin
for  approximately  $221 million cash.  The  operations  acquired by the Company
include  the  telephone   property  and  equipment  that  serves  nearly  69,000
customers,  or  approximately  86,000  access  lines,  as well  as nine  related
telephone directories.

      In June 1999 the Company sold all of the operations of its Brownsville and
McAllen,   Texas,   cellular  systems  to  Western   Wireless   Corporation  for
approximately  $96 million cash. The Company  received a proportionate  share of
the sale proceeds of approximately $45 million after-tax.

      In May 1998,  the Company sold the undersea cable  operations  acquired in
the December 1, 1997 Pacific Telecom, Inc. ("PTI") acquisition for approximately
$61.8  million  cash.  In May 1999,  the Company sold  substantially  all of its
Alaska  telephone  and wireless  operations  that it had  acquired  from PTI for
approximately  $300 million  after-tax.  In February  2000, the Company sold its
interest  in Alaska RSA #1 which  completed  the  Company's  divestiture  of its
Alaska operations.

      In November  2000,  the Company  entered into a definitive  agreement with
Leap  Wireless  International,  Inc.  to  sell 30 PCS  (Personal  Communications
Service) operating licenses for an aggregate of $205 million. The transaction is
expected to close late in the first quarter of 2001,  subject to (i) approval of
the Federal Communications Commission and (ii) certain other closing conditions.
Approximately  $119 million of the purchase  price will be delivered at closing.
The  remaining  $86  million  will be payable in the form of a  promissory  note
bearing 10% interest per annum.  $74 million will be payable  within nine months
after the issuance of the note with the remainder  payable in 2002 upon maturity
of the note.

      The Company continually  evaluates the possibility of acquiring additional
telecommunications  assets in exchange for cash,  securities or both, and at any
given time may be engaged in discussions or  negotiations  regarding  additional
acquisitions.  The Company generally does not announce its acquisitions until it
has entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement. Over the past few years,
the number and size of  communications  properties  on the market has  increased
substantially.  Although  the  Company's  primary  focus will  continue to be on
acquiring  telephone and wireless interests that are proximate to its properties
or  that  serve  a  customer  base  large  enough  for the  Company  to  operate
efficiently,  other  communications  interests  may also be  acquired  and these
acquisitions could have a material impact upon the Company.

      Other.  As of December  31,  2000,  the Company  had  approximately  6,860
employees,  approximately 1,270 of whom were members of 17 different  bargaining
units represented by the International  Brotherhood of Electrical  Workers,  the
Communications Workers of America, or the NTS Employee Committee. Relations with
employees continue to be generally good.

      CenturyTel  was  incorporated  under  Louisiana  law in 1968 to serve as a
holding company for several telephone companies acquired over the previous 15 to
20 years. CenturyTel's principal executive offices are located at 100 CenturyTel
Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203 and its telephone number is (318) 388-9000.

                              TELEPHONE OPERATIONS

      According to published  sources,  the Company is the eighth  largest local
exchange  telephone  company  in the United  States,  based on the more than 1.8
million access lines it served at December 31, 2000. All of the Company's access
lines are digitally switched. Through its operating telephone subsidiaries,  the
Company  provides  services to  predominately  rural,  suburban  and small urban
markets  in 21 states.  The table  below sets  forth  certain  information  with
respect to the Company's access lines as of December 31, 2000 and 1999.



(1)  Approximately 61,750 of these lines are owned and operated by CenturyTel's
      89%-owned affiliate.
(2)  These lines are owned and operated by CenturyTel's majority-owned
      affiliate, of which CenturyTel owned 57.1% at December 31, 2000 and 75.7%
      as of the date of this Report.

      As indicated in the following table, the Company has experienced growth in
its telephone  operations over the past several years, a substantial  portion of
which was attributable to the July and September 2000  acquisitions of telephone
properties from Verizon,  the December 1997 acquisition of PTI, the acquisitions
of other  telephone  properties and the expansion of services.  A portion of the
Company's  access line  growth was offset by the May 1999 sale of the  Company's
Alaska telephone operations.



      Future  growth in telephone  operations is expected to be derived from (i)
acquiring  additional  telephone  properties,  (ii)  providing  service  to  new
customers, (iii) increasing network usage and (iv) providing additional services
made  possible  by  advances  in  technology,   improvements  in  the  Company's
infrastructure  and  changes  in  regulation.   For  information  on  developing
competitive trends, see "-Regulation and Competition."

Services

      The Company's local exchange  telephone  subsidiaries  derive revenue from
providing (i) local telephone  services,  (ii) network access services and (iii)
other related services. The following table reflects the percentage of telephone
operating revenues derived from these respective services:


      Local  service.  Local service  revenues are derived from the provision of
local  exchange  telephone  services in the Company's  service  areas.  Internal
access  line  growth  during  2000,  1999  and  1998 was  2.8%,  4.8% and  4.7%,
respectively.  The  decrease  in internal  access  line  growth  during 2000 was
partially  due to  disconnecting  service to customers for  non-payment  and the
replacement of lines with high-speed data circuits.

      The installation of digital switches, high-speed data circuits and related
software  has been an  important  component  of the  Company's  growth  strategy
because it allows the Company to offer  enhanced  voice  services  (such as call
forwarding,  conference calling,  caller identification,  selective call ringing
and call  waiting) and data  services  and to thereby  increase  utilization  of
existing  access  lines.  In 2000 the  Company  continued  to expand its list of
premium  services  (such as voice  mail)  offered in certain  service  areas and
aggressively marketed these services.

      Network  access.  Network  access  revenues  primarily  relate to services
provided by the Company to long distance  carriers,  wireless carriers and other
customers in connection  with the use of the  Company's  facilities to originate
and terminate  interstate  and intrastate  long distance  telephone  calls.  The
Company's  access  charges  are based on  tariffed  access  rates filed with the
Federal  Communications  Commission ("FCC") for interstate services and with the
respective  state  regulatory  agency for  intrastate  services.  Certain of the
Company's  interstate  network  access  revenues  are  based on  access  charges
prescribed  by the FCC; the remainder of such revenues are derived under revenue
sharing arrangements with other local exchange carriers ("LECs") administered by
the  National  Exchange  Carrier  Association   ("NECA"),  a  quasi-governmental
non-profit organization formed by the FCC in 1983 for such purposes.

      Certain of the Company's  intrastate  network access  revenues are derived
through  access  charges  billed by the  Company  to  intrastate  long  distance
carriers and other LEC  customers.  Such  intrastate  network access charges are
based on  access  tariffs,  which are  subject  to state  regulatory  commission
approval.  Additionally,  certain of the  Company's  intrastate  network  access
revenues,  along with  intrastate  and  intra-LATA  (Local  Access and Transport
Areas) long distance revenues,  are derived through revenue sharing arrangements
with other LECs.

      The Company is installing fiber optic cable in certain of its high traffic
routes and provides  alternative  routing of telephone  service over fiber optic
cable networks in several  strategic  operating areas. At December 31, 2000, the
Company's  telephone  subsidiaries had over 10,000 miles of fiber optic cable in
use.

      Other.  Other revenues include  revenues related to (i) leasing,  selling,
installing,   maintaining  and  repairing  customer  premise  telecommunications
equipment and wiring,  (ii) providing  billing and collection  services for long
distance  companies  and  (iii)   participating  in  the  publication  of  local
directories.

      Certain large  communications  companies  for which the Company  currently
provides  billing and collection  services  continue to indicate their desire to
reduce  their  billing  and  collection  expenses,  which has  resulted  and may
continue to result in future  reductions of the Company's billing and collection
revenues.

      For further information on the regulation of the Company's  revenues,  see
"-Regulation and Competition."

Federal Financing Programs

      Certain  of  the  Company's  telephone   subsidiaries   receive  long-term
financing from the Rural  Utilities  Service ("RUS") or the Rural Telephone Bank
("RTB").  The RUS has made long-term loans to telephone companies since 1949 for
the purpose of improving  telephone service in rural areas. The RUS continues to
make new loans at  interest  rates that  range  from 5% to 7% based on  borrower
qualifications and the cost of funds to the United States  government.  The RTB,
established  in 1971,  makes  long-term  loans at  interest  rates  based on its
average cost of funds as determined by statutory formula (such rates ranged from
6.01% to 6.05% for the RTB's fiscal year ended September 30, 2000),  and in some
cases makes loans  concurrently with RUS loans. Much of the Company's  telephone
plant is pledged or mortgaged to secure  obligations of the Company's  telephone
subsidiaries to the RUS and RTB. The Company's telephone  subsidiaries that have
borrowed from government agencies generally may not loan or advance any funds to
CenturyTel, but may pay dividends if certain financial covenants are met.

      For  additional  information  regarding the Company's  financing,  see the
Company's consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 herein.

Regulation and Competition

      Traditionally,  LECs have operated as regulated monopolies.  Consequently,
most of the Company's  telephone  operations have  traditionally  been regulated
extensively  by various  state  regulatory  agencies  (generally  called  public
service commissions or public utility  commissions) and by the FCC. As discussed
in greater  detail  below,  passage of the  Telecommunications  Act of 1996 (the
"1996 Act"),  coupled with state  legislative  and  regulatory  initiatives  and
technological  changes,  has  fundamentally  altered the  telephone  industry by
reducing the  regulation of LECs and  permitting  competition in each segment of
the  telephone  industry.  Although  CenturyTel  anticipates  that these  trends
towards  reduced  regulation  and increased  competition  will  continue,  it is
difficult to determine the form or degree of future  regulation and  competition
in the Company's service areas.

      State regulation. The local service rates and intrastate access charges of
substantially all of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are regulated by state
regulatory  commissions.  Most of such commissions have traditionally  regulated
pricing through "rate of return" regulation that focuses on authorized levels of
earnings by LECs. Most of these  commissions  also (i) regulate the purchase and
sale  of  LECs,  (ii)  prescribe   depreciation  rates  and  certain  accounting
procedures and (iii) regulate various other matters,  including  certain service
standards and operating procedures.

      In recent years, state legislatures and regulatory  commissions in most of
the states in which the Company has  substantial  operations have either reduced
the  regulation of LECs or have  announced  their  intention to do so, and it is
expected that this trend will continue.  Wisconsin,  Louisiana and several other
states have passed legislation or issued regulatory rulings which permit LECs to
opt out of rate of return  regulation  in exchange for  agreeing to  alternative
forms of regulation  which typically permit the LEC greater freedom to establish
local  service  rates in exchange  for agreeing not to charge rates in excess of
specified  caps. As discussed  further  below,  most of the Company's  Wisconsin
telephone subsidiaries,  with the exception of the recently acquired properties,
have agreed to be  governed by  alternative  regulation  plans,  and the Company
continues to explore its options for similar  treatment in other  states.  Other
states have imposed new  regulatory  models that do not rely on "rate of return"
regulation. The Company believes that reduced regulatory oversight of certain of
the  Company's  telephone  operations  may  allow the  Company  to offer new and
competitive services faster than under the traditional regulatory process. For a
discussion  of  legislative,  regulatory  and  technological  changes  that have
introduced  competition  into the local exchange  industry,  see  "-Developments
Affecting Competition."

      A portion of the Company's  telephone  operations  in Wisconsin  have been
regulated under an alternative regulation plan since June 1996. In late 1999 and
early 2000, most of the Company's  remaining  Wisconsin  telephone  subsidiaries
agreed to be subject to alternative  regulation plans. Each of these plans has a
five-year  term and permits the Company to adjust local rates  within  specified
parameters   if  certain   quality-of-service   and   infrastructure-development
commitments  are met. These plans also include  initiatives  designed to promote
competition. Although the Company believes that these plans will be favorable in
the future as additional  revenue  streams are added and cost  efficiencies  are
obtained,  these plans slowed  revenue  growth during 2000 because they are more
closely tied to access line growth rather than minutes of use growth,  which has
traditionally  grown  at a  faster  rate  than  access  lines.  There  can be no
assurance that current or future  alternative  regulation  plans will not reduce
revenue  growth in the future.  For a discussion of the  Company's  pending rate
proceedings  with the Wisconsin  Public Service  Commission,  see Item 7 of this
Report.

      In 1997  the  Louisiana  Public  Service  Commission  ("LPSC")  adopted  a
Consumer Price Protection Plan (the "Louisiana  Plan"),  effective July 1997 and
renewed  substantially  in its same form during 2000,  which  impacts all of the
Company's LECs operating in Louisiana.  This form of regulation focuses on price
and quality of service.  Under the Louisiana Plan, the Company's Louisiana LECs'
local rates were frozen for a period of three years and access rates were frozen
for a period of two  years.  The  Company's  Louisiana  LECs have the  option to
propose  a new  plan at any  time if the  LPSC  determines  that  (i)  effective
competition  exists or (ii)  unforeseen  events  threaten  the LEC's  ability to
provide adequate service or impair its financial health.  Although the Louisiana
Plan has no specified term, the LPSC is required to review it by mid-2003.

      The  Company's  Arkansas  LECs,   excluding  the  newly-acquired   Verizon
properties,  are regulated under an alternative regulation plan adopted in 1997,
which initially froze access rates for three years,  after which time such rates
can be adjusted based on an inflation-based  factor.  Local service rates can be
adjusted  without  commission  approval;  however,  such  rates are  subject  to
commission review if certain petition criteria are met. In addition,  since 1995
the  Company's  Michigan LECs have been subject to a regulatory  structure  that
focuses on price and quality of service as opposed to traditional rate of return
regulation,  and which relies more on existing  federal and state law  regarding
antitrust  consumer   protection  and  fair  trade  to  provide  safeguards  for
competition and consumers.

      Notwithstanding   the  movement  towards   deregulation,   LECs  operating
approximately  68% of the Company's  total access lines continue to be subject
to "rate of return" regulation. These LECs remain subject to the powers of state
regulatory commissions to conduct earnings reviews and adjust service rates.

      FCC regulation.  The FCC regulates the interstate services provided by the
Company's telephone  subsidiaries  primarily by regulating the interstate access
charges that are billed to long distance companies and other LECs by the Company
for use of its local network in connection  with the origination and termination
of interstate  telephone  calls.  Additionally,  the FCC has prescribed  certain
rules and regulations for telephone companies,  including  regulations regarding
the use of radio frequencies;  a uniform system of accounts; and rules regarding
the  separation  of  costs  between   jurisdictions  and,  ultimately,   between
interstate services.

      Effective January 1, 1991, the FCC adopted price-cap  regulation  relating
to interstate access rates for the Regional Bell Operating  Companies  ("RBOCs")
and GTE  Corporation.  All  other  LECs may  elect to be  subject  to  price-cap
regulation. Under price-cap regulation, limits imposed on a company's interstate
rates are adjusted periodically to reflect inflation,  productivity  improvement
and changes in certain  non-controllable  costs.  In May 1993 the FCC adopted an
optional incentive regulatory plan for LECs not subject to price-cap regulation.
A LEC electing the optional incentive regulatory plan would, among other things,
file  tariffs  based  primarily  on  historical  costs  and  not be  allowed  to
participate  in the  relevant  NECA  pooling  arrangements.  The Company has not
elected price-cap regulation or the optional incentive regulatory plan, but will
continue to evaluate its options on a periodic basis.  Either election,  if made
by the Company,  would have to be applicable  to all of the Company's  telephone
subsidiaries.  The authorized interstate access rate of return for the Company's
telephone  subsidiaries  is  currently  11.25%,  which  is the  authorized  rate
established  by the FCC for LECs not  governed by  price-cap  regulation  or the
optional incentive regulatory plan.

      On October 20,  2000,  a proposed  comprehensive  reform plan  designed to
address access rates,  universal  service,  rate of return and  separations  was
filed with the FCC by a Multi Association Group representing small and mid-sized
telephone  companies  that  currently are regulated  under  traditional  rate of
return  mechanisms.  The proposed plan attempts to mirror certain  principles of
the access charge reform plan  implemented by the FCC for price cap companies in
mid-1999. Under this plan, companies would have a five-year period to transition
from  their  existing  forms  of  rate of  return  regulation  to a new  form of
incentive regulation.  If adopted in its current form, the plan would not have a
material  effect on the Company's  operating  revenues or results of operations;
however, until the plan is finalized under the rulemaking procedures of the FCC,
it is  premature to assess the ultimate  impact this  proposal  will have on the
Company.  There can be no assurance  that the plan, in its final form,  will not
have a material effect on the Company's results of operations.

      High-cost support funds, revenue sharing arrangements and related matters.
A significant number of the Company's telephone  subsidiaries  recover a portion
of  their  costs  under  federal  and  state  cost  recovery   mechanisms   that
traditionally  have allowed LECs serving  small  communities  and rural areas to
provide  communications  services  reasonably  comparable to those  available in
urban areas and at reasonably comparable prices.

      The 1996  Act  authorized  the  establishment  of new  federal  and  state
universal   service   funds   to   provide   continued   support   to   eligible
telecommunications  carriers.  Substantially  all of the Company's LECs has been
designated  eligible  to  receive  continued  support  by its  respective  state
regulatory  agency.  These new suppport  funds are intended to replace  existing
federal support mechanisms that are based on historical cost models. The FCC has
established a task force to recommend how universal  service  support  should be
administered for rural LECs. This task force has recommended a modified embedded
cost model  which,  if adopted in its  current  form,  would not have a material
effect on the Company's consolidated revenues or results of operations. However,
if the FCC  implements  new universal  support  mechanisms  for rural  carriers,
including substantially all of the Company's LECs, based on forward-looking cost
models  (as it did for  non-rural  carriers  in  October  1999),  the  Company's
consolidated revenues could be negatively impacted. Until new support mechanisms
are finalized under the FCC's rulemaking  procedures,  there can be no assurance
that the universal service support mechanism  ultimately adopted by the FCC will
not  negatively  affect  the  Company's  operations.  During  2000  and 1999 the
Company's telephone  subsidiaries received $146.4 million (of which $8.3 million
related  to the  Company's  recently-acquired  Verizon  operations)  and  $127.5
million (of which $5.2 million related to the Alaska based operations which were
disposed of in mid-1999), respectively, from the federal Universal Service Fund,
representing 7.9% and 7.6%, respectively, of the Company's consolidated revenues
for 2000 and 1999. In addition,  the Company's telephone  subsidiaries  received
$30.7 million and $19.5 million in 2000 and 1999, respectively,  from intrastate
support funds. For additional information, see Item 7 of this report.

      In 1997,  the FCC also  established  new  programs  to provide  discounted
telecommunications services annually to schools, libraries and rural health care
providers.  All communications carriers providing interstate  telecommunications
services,  including  the  Company's  LECs and its  cellular  and long  distance
operations,  are required to contribute to these  programs.  The Company's  LECs
recover their funding contributions in their rates for interstate services.  The
Company's  contribution by its cellular and long distance  operations,  which is
passed on to its  customers,  was  approximately  $3.7  million in 2000 and $3.9
million in 1999.

      Some of the  Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  operate  in states  where
traditional  cost recovery  mechanisms,  including  rate  structures,  are under
evaluation  or have been  modified.  See  "-State  Regulation."  There can be no
assurance  that these  states  will  continue  to provide  for cost  recovery at
current levels.

      Substantially  all of the  Company's  LECs  concur  with the  common  line
tariffs and  certain of the  Company's  LECs  concur with the traffic  sensitive
tariffs filed by the NECA;  such LECs  participate in the access revenue sharing
arrangements  administered  by the  NECA  for  interstate  services.  All of the
intrastate  network  access  revenues of the Company's  LECs are based on access
charges,  cost  separation  studies  or  special  settlement  arrangements.  See
"-Services."

      Certain  long  distance  carriers  continue to request that certain of the
Company's LECs reduce  intrastate  access tariffed rates. Long distance carriers
have also  aggressively  pursued  regulatory or  legislative  changes that would
reduce access rates.  There is no assurance  that these  requests or initiatives
will not result in decreased access revenues.

      Developments affecting competition.  The communications industry continues
to undergo  fundamental  changes  which are likely to  significantly  impact the
future  operations and financial  performance of all  communications  companies.
Primarily  as  a  result  of   legislative   and  regulatory   initiatives   and
technological  changes,  competition  has been introduced and encouraged in each
sector of the telephone industry,  including,  most recently, the local exchange
sector. As a result, the number of companies offering  competitive  services has
increased substantially.

      As indicated  above, in February 1996 Congress enacted the 1996 Act, which
obligates LECs to permit  competitors to  interconnect  their  facilities to the
LEC's  network  and to take  various  other  steps that are  designed to promote
competition.  The 1996 Act  imposes  several  duties on a LEC if it  receives  a
specific  request  from  another  entity  which seeks to connect with or provide
services using the LEC's network.  In addition,  each incumbent LEC is obligated
to  (i)  negotiate  interconnection  agreements  in  good  faith,  (ii)  provide
"unbundled"  access to all aspects of the LEC's  network,  (iii) offer resale of
its  telecommunications  services at wholesale rates and (iv) permit competitors
to collocate  their physical  plant on the LEC's  property,  or provide  virtual
collocation  if physical  collocation is not  practicable.  Under the 1996 Act's
rural telephone company exemption,  substantially all of the Company's telephone
subsidiaries  are  exempt  from  certain of these  interconnection  requirements
unless and until the  appropriate  state  regulatory  commission  overrides  the
exemption upon receipt from a competitor of a request meeting certain  criteria.
In mid-2000,  a federal  appellate court  overturned  portions of the FCC's 1996
interconnection  order that sought to place the burden of proving the continuing
availability of this exemption on rural LECs. States are permitted to adopt laws
or regulations  that provide for greater  competition than is mandated under the
1996 Act. Although portions of the FCC's August 1996 interconnection  order have
survived judicial  challenge,  the FCC has neither completed its interconnection
rulemaking  nor issued  rules on  universal  service or access  reform for rural
carriers.  Management  believes that competition in its telephone  service areas
has  increased  and will  continue  to  increase  as a result  of the 1996  Act,
although the form and degree of  competition  cannot be  ascertained  until such
time as the FCC (and, in certain instances, state regulatory commissions) adopts
final and nonappealable implementing regulations.

      In addition to these changes in federal  regulation,  all of the 21 states
in which the Company  provides  telephone  services  have taken  legislative  or
regulatory steps to further  introduce  competition into the LEC business.  As a
result of these regulatory  developments,  incumbent LECs ("ILECs") increasingly
face   competition   from  competitive   local  exchange   carriers   ("CLECs"),
particularly in high population areas.  CLECs provide competing services through
reselling the ILECs' local services, through use of the ILECs' unbundled network
elements or through their own facilities.

      The number of  companies  which have  requested  authorization  to provide
local   exchange   service  in  the   Company's   service  areas  has  increased
substantially,  especially in the Company's  newly-acquired Verizon markets, and
it is anticipated that similar action may be taken by others in the future.

      In addition to facing direct  competition from CLECs,  ILECs  increasingly
face  competition  from  alternate  communication  systems  constructed  by long
distance carriers, large customers or alternative access vendors. These systems,
which have become  more  prevalent  as a result of the 1996 Act,  are capable of
originating or terminating  calls without use of the ILECs' networks.  Customers
may also use  wireless  or Internet  voice  service to bypass  ILECs'  switching
services. In addition,  technological and regulatory developments have increased
the feasibility of competing  services  offered by cable  television  companies,
several of whom are pursuing these  opportunities.  Other  potential  sources of
competition  include  noncarrier  systems that are capable of  bypassing  ILECs'
local networks, either partially or completely,  through substitution of special
access  for  switched  access or  through  concentration  of  telecommunications
traffic on few of the ILECs'  access  lines.  The Company  anticipates  that all
these trends will continue and lead to increased  competition with the Company's
LECs.

      Historically,  cellular telephone  services have complemented  traditional
LEC services.  However, existing and emerging wireless technologies increasingly
compete with LEC services.  The Company  anticipates  this trend will  continue,
particularly  if wireless  service  rates  continue to drop.  Technological  and
regulatory developments in cellular telephone, personal communications services,
digital microwave,  coaxial cable, fiber optics,  local multipoint  distribution
services  and other  wired and  wireless  technologies  are  expected to further
permit the  development of alternatives to traditional  landline  services.  For
further information on certain of these developments, see "Wireless Operations -
Regulation and Competition."

      Historically,  ILECs earned all or substantially  all of the toll revenues
associated  with  intra-LATA  long distance  calls.  Principally  as a result of
recent state regulatory changes, companies offering competing toll services have
emerged in the Company's local exchange markets.

      To  the  extent  that  the  telephone  industry  increasingly  experiences
competition,   the  size  and  resources  of  each  respective   competitor  may
increasingly  influence its  prospects.  Many companies  currently  providing or
planning  to  provide  competitive  communication  services  have  substantially
greater financial and marketing resources than the Company,  and several are not
subject to the same regulatory constraints as the Company.

      The  Company  anticipates  that the  traditional  operations  of LECs will
continue to be  impacted  by  continued  technological  developments  as well as
legislative and regulatory  initiatives affecting the ability of LECs to provide
new services and the  capability of long  distance  companies,  CLECs,  wireless
companies,  cable  television  companies and others to provide  competitive  LEC
services. Competition relating to services traditionally provided solely by LECs
has thus far affected large urban areas to a greater extent than rural, suburban
and small urban areas such as those in which the Company  operates.  The Company
intends  to  actively  monitor  these  developments,  to  observe  the effect of
emerging  competitive trends in initial  competitive  markets and to continue to
evaluate new business  opportunities that may arise out of future technological,
legislative and regulatory developments.

      The Company anticipates that regulatory changes and competitive  pressures
may result in future revenue  reductions in its telephone  operations.  However,
the Company  anticipates  that such  reductions may be minimized by increases in
revenues  attributable  to the  continued  demand for enhanced  services and new
product offerings.  While the Company expects its telephone revenues to continue
to grow, its internal  telephone  revenue  growth rate may slow during  upcoming
periods.


                               WIRELESS OPERATIONS

      At December 31, 2000, the Company had access to approximately  9.5 million
cellular  pops,  of which  65% were  applicable  to MSAs and 35% were RSA  pops.
According  to data  derived from  published  sources,  the Company is the eighth
largest cellular  telephone  company in the United States based on the Company's
9.5 million pops.

Cellular Industry

      The cellular telephone industry has been in existence for over 16 years in
the United States. The industry has grown  significantly  during this period and
cellular  service  is now  available  in  substantially  all areas of the United
States. According to the Cellular  Telecommunications  Industry Association,  at
June 2000 there were estimated to be over 97 million  wireless  customers across
the United States.

      Initially,  all radio  transmissions of cellular systems were conducted on
an analog basis. Technological developments involving the application of digital
radio technology offer certain  advantages over analog  technologies,  including
expanding  the  capacity  of  mobile  communications  systems,  improving  voice
clarity,  permitting the  introduction of new services,  and making such systems
more  secure.  Digital  service is now  available in 100% of the  Company's  MSA
markets  and  approximately  65% of its RSA  markets.  Approximately  19% of the
Company's  cellular  customers  currently  subscribe  to  digital  services.  As
discussed  further  below,  several large  wireless  carriers have taken initial
steps to develop "next generation"  technologies  capable of providing  enhanced
digital  wireless  services.  For additional  information,  see "-Regulation and
Competition-Developments Affecting Wireless Competition."

Construction and Maintenance

      The construction and maintenance of cellular systems is capital intensive.
Although the Company's MSA and RSA systems have been operational for many years,
the  Company  has  continued  to add cell sites to  increase  coverage,  provide
additional  capacity,  and  improve the  quality of these  systems.  In 2000 the
Company completed  construction of 47 cell sites in its majority-owned  markets.
At December 31, 2000, the Company operated 743 cell sites in its  majority-owned
markets.

      Over the past several  years the Company has upgraded most of its wireless
systems to be capable  of  providing  digital  service  under the Time  Division
Multiple  Access  ("TDMA")  standard,  which is one of the four primary  digital
cellular  standards  currently used  worldwide.  The Company intends to continue
installing digital voice  transmission  facilities in other markets in 2001. See
"-Regulation  and  Competition-Developments   Affecting  Wireless  Competition."
Capital  expenditures  related to  majority-owned  and operated wireless systems
totaled  approximately $58.5 million in 2000. Such capital expenditures for 2001
are anticipated to be approximately $70 million.

Strategy

      The Company's business development strategy for its wireless operations is
to secure operating control of service areas that are geographically  clustered.
Clustered  systems aid the  Company's  marketing  efforts  and  provide  various
operating and service  advantages.  Approximately 46% of the Company's customers
are in a single,  contiguous  cluster of eight  MSAs and nine RSAs in  Michigan;
another 25% are in a cluster of five MSAs and seven RSAs in northern and central
Louisiana,  southern  Arkansas and eastern Texas.  See "-The Company's  Cellular
Interests."

      The Company has also  traditionally  targeted  roaming  service  revenues,
which are  derived  from calls  made in one of the  Company's  service  areas by
customers of other cellular  carriers from other service areas.  In exchange for
providing  roaming  service to  customers  of other  carriers,  the  Company has
traditionally  charged premium rates to most of these other  carriers,  who then
frequently  pass on some or all of these premium  rates to their own  customers.
The Company's  Michigan,  Louisiana and Mississippi  cellular properties provide
service to various interstate highway corridors. As indicated elsewhere in Items
1 and 7 of this Report,  the Company has  increasingly  received  pressure  from
other  cellular  operators  to  reduce  substantially  its  roaming  rates.  See
"-Services, Customers and System Usage."

Marketing

      The Company markets its wireless  services  through  several  distribution
channels,  including its direct sales force, retail outlets owned by the Company
and  independent  agents.  All sales  employees and certain  independent  agents
solicit  customers  exclusively  for the Company.  Company  sales  employees are
compensated  by salary and  commission  and  independent  sales  agents are paid
commissions.   The  Company  advertises  its  services  through  various  means,
including  direct mail,  billboard,  magazine,  radio,  television and newspaper
advertisements.

      The  sales  and  marketing  costs of  obtaining  new  subscribers  include
advertising and a direct expense  applicable to most new subscribers,  either in
the form of a commission payment to an agent or an incentive payment to a direct
sales  employee.  In  addition,  the  Company  discounts  the  cost of  cellular
telephone  equipment sold to its customers,  and  periodically  runs  promotions
which  waive  certain  fees  or  provide  some  amount  of free  service  to new
subscribers.  The average  cost of acquiring  each new  customer  ($289 in 2000)
remains  one of  the  larger  expenses  in  conducting  the  Company's  wireless
operations.  In recent years,  the Company has sought to lower this average cost
by focusing more on its direct  distribution  channels.  The Company  opened its
first retail  outlet in 1994,  and currently  operates 143 such outlets.  During
2000,  approximately  65% of new cellular  customers  were added through  direct
distribution channels, up from 37% during 1996.

      Because  most of the  Company's  cellular  markets  are  located in rural,
suburban or small urban areas,  the Company  believes that most of its customers
typically  require  only  local or  regional  services.  The  Company  lacks the
facilities and national brand name necessary to compete effectively for business
customers  requiring  nationwide  services,  and the Company  does not  actively
target  these  customers  in  its  marketing  campaigns.  See  "-Regulation  and
Competition."

Services, Customers and System Usage

      There are a number of different types of cellular telephones, all of which
are currently compatible with cellular systems nationwide.  The Company offers a
full range of  vehicle-mounted,  transportable,  and hand-held portable cellular
telephones.  The  Company  typically  purchases  cellular  phones  in bulk,  and
typically  resells them at a loss to meet  competition or to stimulate  sales by
reducing the cost of becoming a cellular customer.

      The Company charges its subscribers for access to its systems, for minutes
of use and for enhanced services,  such as voice mail. A subscriber may purchase
certain of these  services  separately  or may purchase  rate plans which bundle
these  services in  different  ways and are designed to fit  different  customer
requirements. While the Company historically has typically charged its customers
separately  for  custom-calling  features,  air time in excess  of the  packaged
amount, and toll calls, it currently offers plans which include features such as
unlimited  toll calls and unlimited  weekend  calling in certain  calling areas.
Custom-calling  features  provided  by  the  Company  include   call-forwarding,
call-waiting, three-way calling and no- answer transfer. The Company also offers
voice message service in its markets.

      Cellular  customers  come from a wide range of  occupations  and typically
include a large  proportion of individuals who work outside of their office.  In
recent years,  the  individual  consumer  market has generated a majority of new
customer additions.  The Company's average monthly cellular revenue per customer
declined to $49 in 2000 from $53 in 1999 and $57 in 1998.  Such average  revenue
per customer is expected to further decline (i) as market penetration  increases
and  additional  lower  usage  customers  are  activated,  (ii)  as the  Company
continues to receive  pressure from other  cellular  operators to reduce roaming
rates and (iii) as  competitive  pressures  from  current  and  future  wireless
communications providers intensify. See "-Regulation and Competition."

      The  Company  has  entered  into  "roaming  agreements"   nationwide  with
operators  of other  cellular  systems  that  permit each  company's  respective
customers  to place or receive  calls  outside of their home  market  area.  The
charge to a  non-Company  customer  for this service has  traditionally  been at
premium rates, and is billed by the Company to the customer's  service provider,
which then bills the customer.  In most instances,  based on competitive factors
and  financial  considerations,  the Company  charges an amount to its customers
that is equal to or lower  than the  amount  actually  charged  by the  cellular
carrier providing the roaming service.  Within the past two years, several large
nationwide  cellular  providers  have  introduced  rate plans that offer roaming
coverage  (provided  through other  carriers) at the same rate as service within
the  customer's  home  market  area.  To defray the cost of these  plans,  these
providers  have  exerted  substantial  pressure  on  other  cellular  providers,
including the Company,  to reduce their roaming  fees.  The Company  anticipates
that  competitive  factors and  industry  consolidation  will  continue to place
further pressure on charging  premium roaming rates. For additional  information
on roaming revenue, see "-Strategy."

      Churn rate (the average  percentage of cellular  customers  that terminate
service each month) is an industry-wide  concern.  A significant  portion of the
churn in the Company's  markets is due to the Company  disconnecting  service to
cellular customers for nonpayment of their bills. In addition, the Company faces
substantial  competition  from  the  other  wireless  providers,  including  PCS
providers.   The  Company's  average  monthly  churn  rate,   excluding  prepaid
customers,  in its  majority-owned  and  operated  markets was 1.95% in 2000 and
2.02% in 1999.  The Company is  attempting to lower its churn rate by increasing
its proactive  customer  service efforts and  implementing  additional  customer
retention programs.

      During  recent  years,  the Company's  cellular  subsidiaries  experienced
strong subscriber growth in the fourth quarter,  primarily due to holiday season
sales.

      The following table summarizes,  among other things,  certain  information
about the Company's customers and market penetration:



For additional information, see "- The Company's Wireless Interests."

Notes:

1.  Represents the number of systems in which the Company owned at least a 50%
     interest. The revenues and expenses of these  markets,  all of which are
     operated by the Company, are included in the Company's consolidated
     operating revenues and operating expenses.
2.  Based on independent third-party population estimates for each respective
     year.
3.  Represents the approximate number of revenue-generating cellular telephones
     served by the cellular systems referred to in note 1.
4.  Computed by dividing the number of customers at the end of the period by
     the total population of systems referred to in note 1.
5.  Represents the average percentage of customers, excluding prepaid customers,
     that were disconnected per month.

The Company's Wireless Interests

     Cellular  interests.  The Company  obtained  the right to provide  cellular
service through (i) the FCC's licensing process described below,  under which it
received interests in wireline licenses, and (ii) its acquisition program, under
which it has acquired interests in both wireline and non-wireline  licenses. The
table below sets forth  certain  information  with  respect to the  interests in
cellular systems that the Company owned as of December 31, 2000:






Notes:

1.   Based on 2000 independent third-party population estimates.
2.   Information provided to the best of the Company's knowledge. There is also
     at least one PCS competitor in each of the operated MSAs and certain of
     the operated RSAs.
3.   Markets not operated by the Company.
4.   Represents a non-wireline interest. See "Regulation and Competition
     - Cellular licensing and regulation."

      Other wireless interests - Excluding licenses that it is committed to
sell, the Company owned at December 31, 2000 (i) licenses  to  provide  personal
communications  services ("PCS")  representing  approximately 3.0 million pops
and (ii) 36 local multi-point distribution system ("LMDS") licenses representing
approximately  12.2 million  pops.  The Company  intends to use a portion of its
LMDS licenses in connection  with its new  competitive  local exchange  business
described below under "Other  Operations."  The Company is currently  evaluating
its options with respect to the remainder of these licenses,  some of which will
lapse if not used by the Company by certain specified dates.

Operations

      A  substantial  number of the  cellular  systems in MSAs  operated  by the
Company  are owned by  limited  partnerships  in which the  Company is a general
partner  ("MSA  Partnerships").  Most of  these  partnerships  are  governed  by
partnership  agreements  with  similar  terms,  including,  among other  things,
customary provisions  concerning capital  contributions,  sharing of profits and
losses,  and  dissolution  and  termination  of the  partnership.  Most of these
partnership agreements vest complete operational control of the partnership with
the general  partner.  The general  partner  typically  has the power to manage,
supervise  and  conduct  the  affairs  of the  partnership,  make all  decisions
appropriate in connection  with the business  purposes of the  partnership,  and
incur  obligations  and execute  agreements  on behalf of the  partnership.  The
general  partner also may make  decisions  regarding the time and amount of cash
contributions  and  distributions,   and  the  nature,   timing  and  extent  of
construction,  without the consent of the other partners.  The Company owns more
than 50% of all of the MSA Partnerships.

      A  substantial  number of the  cellular  systems in RSAs  operated  by the
Company are also owned by limited or general  partnerships  in which the Company
is either the  general  or  managing  partner  (the "RSA  Partnerships").  These
partnerships  are governed by  partnership  agreements  with  varying  terms and
provisions. In many of these partnerships,  the noncontrolling partners have the
right to vote on major issues such as the annual budget and system design.  In a
few of these  partnerships,  the Company's  management position is for a limited
term  (similar  to  a  management  contract)  and  the  other  partners  in  the
partnership  have the right to  change  managers,  with or  without  cause.  The
Company owns less than 50% of some of the RSA Partnerships.

      The  partnership   agreements  for  both  the  MSA  Partnerships  and  RSA
Partnerships generally contain provisions granting all partners a right of first
refusal in the event a partner desires to transfer a partnership interest.  This
restriction on transfer can under certain  circumstances  make these partnership
interests more difficult to sell to a third party.

Revenue

      The  following  table  reflects  the  major  revenue  categories  for  the
Company's wireless  operations as a percentage of wireless operating revenues in
2000, 1999 and 1998.  Virtually all of these revenues were derived from cellular
operations.



      For further  information  on these  revenue  categories,  see  "-Services,
Customers and System Usage."

Regulation and Competition

      As discussed below,  the FCC and various state public utility  commissions
regulate, among other things, the licensing,  construction,  operation,  safety,
interconnection  arrangements,   sale  and  acquisition  of  cellular  telephone
systems.

      Competition between providers of wireless  communications  service in each
market is conducted principally on the basis of price, services and enhancements
offered,  the technical quality and coverage of the system,  and the quality and
responsiveness  of  customer  service.  As  discussed  below,   competition  has
intensified  in recent years in a substantial  number of the Company's  markets.
Under  applicable  law,  the Company is required to permit the  reselling of its
services. In certain larger markets and in certain market segments,  competition
from resellers may be  significant.  There is also  substantial  competition for
sales agents.  Certain of the Company's  competitors have substantially  greater
assets and resources than the Company.

      Cellular  licensing and  regulation.  The term "MSA" means a  Metropolitan
Statistical Area for which the FCC has granted a cellular operating license. The
term "RSA" means a Rural  Service  Area for which the FCC has granted a cellular
operating  license.  During the 1980's and early  1990's,  the FCC  awarded  two
10-year  licenses  to  provide  cellular  service  in each  MSA and RSA  market.
Initially,  one license was  reserved for  companies  offering  local  telephone
service in the market (the  wireline  carrier) and one license was available for
firms unaffiliated with the local telephone company (the non-wireline  carrier).
Since mid-1986, the FCC has permitted telephone companies or their affiliates to
acquire  control of  non-wireline  licenses in markets in which they do not hold
interests in the wireline  license.  The FCC has issued a decision that grants a
renewal expectancy during the license renewal period to incumbent licensees that
substantially   comply  with  the  terms  and   conditions  of  their   cellular
authorizations  and the FCC's  regulations.  The  licenses  for the MSA  markets
operated  by the Company  were  initially  granted  between  1984 and 1987,  and
licenses for operated RSAs were initially  granted  between 1989 and 1991.  Thus
far, the Company has received  10-year  extensions  of all of its licenses  that
have become subject to renewal since their original grant dates.

      The  completion of an  acquisition  involving the transfer of control of a
cellular  system  requires prior FCC approval and, in certain cases,  receipt of
other federal and state  regulatory  approvals.  The  acquisition  of a minority
interest  generally  does not require FCC  approval.  Whenever  FCC  approval is
required,  any  interested  party may file a  petition  to  dismiss  or deny the
application for approval of the proposed transfer.

      In recent  years,  the FCC has also  taken  steps to (i)  require  certain
cellular  towers  and  antennas  to  comply  with  radio   frequency   radiation
guidelines,  (ii) require  cellular  carriers to work with public  safety or law
enforcement officials to process 911 calls and conduct electronic  surveillance,
(iii) enable  cellular  subscribers to retain,  subject to certain  limitations,
their existing  telephone  numbers when they change  service  providers and (iv)
implement  portions of the 1996 Act. These  initiatives may increase the cost of
providing cellular service.

      In addition to regulation of these and other matters by the FCC,  cellular
systems are subject to certain  Federal  Aviation  Administration  tower  height
regulations  concerning  the siting and  construction  of  cellular  transmitter
towers and antennas.

      Cellular  operators are also subject to state and local regulation in some
instances.   Although  the  FCC  has  pre-empted  the  states  from   exercising
jurisdiction  in  the  areas  of  licensing,   technical  standards  and  market
structure,  certain  states  require  cellular  operators  to be  certified.  In
addition,  some  state  authorities  regulate  certain  aspects  of  a  cellular
operator's  business,  including certain aspects of pricing,  the resale of long
distance  service to its customers,  the technical  arrangements and charges for
interconnection  with the local wireline network,  and the transfer of interests
in cellular systems.  The siting and construction of the cellular facilities may
also be subject to state or local zoning,  land use and other local regulations,
as well as the  increasing  possibility  of local  community  opposition  to new
towers.

      Media  and other  reports  have from  time to time  suggested  that  radio
frequency  emissions from wireless  handsets and base stations can cause various
health  problems,  and may interefere with  electronic  medical  devices.  These
concerns  received  increased  scrutiny  in 2000  following  (i) the  June  2000
announcement that the U.S. Food and Drug  Administration had agreed to oversee a
$1  million  industry-funded  long-term  study  of  handset  emissions  and  had
recommended  that  users of  handsets  limit the length of their  calls  pending
completion  of the  study  and (ii) the July  2000  adoption  of a policy by the
leading  industry  trade  group  requiring  handset  manufacturers  to  disclose
emission levels. No assurance can be given that future research and studies will
not demonstrate a link between the radio frequency emissions of wireless handset
and base  stations  and health  problems.  If such a link is  demonstrated,  the
Company cannot provide assurances that government  authorities will not increase
regulation of wireless  handsets and base  stations or that  wireless  companies
will not be held  liable for cost or  damages  associated  with these  concerns.
Moreover,  these concerns could materially reduce demand for wireless  services,
including those offered by the Company.

      A small number of local communities have enacted ordinances restricting or
prohibiting the use of wireless phones while driving motor vehicles, and several
state and local  legislative  bodies have proposed  legislation to adopt similar
laws. In addition,  some studies have indicated that using wireless phones while
driving may impair drivers'  attention.  Laws prohibiting or restricting the use
of wireless phones while driving could reduce  subscriber  usage.  Additionally,
concerns  over the use of wireless  phones while driving could lead to potential
litigation against wireless carriers.

      Developments  affecting wireless competition.  Competition in the wireless
communications  industry  has  increased  substantially  in recent  years due to
continued and rapid technological  advances in the communications field, coupled
with legislative and regulatory changes.

      Several  FCC  initiatives  over  the  past  decade  have  resulted  in the
allocation of additional radio spectrum or the issuance of licenses for emerging
mobile  communications  technologies  that are  competitive  with the  Company's
cellular  and  telephone  operations,   including  PCS.  Although  there  is  no
universally recognized definition of PCS, the term is generally used to refer to
wireless services to be provided by licensees  operating in the 1850 MHz to 1990
MHz radio frequency band using microcells and high-capacity  digital technology.
In 1996 and early 1997 the FCC auctioned up to six PCS licenses per market.  Two
30MHz  frequency  blocks  were  awarded  for each of the 51 Rand  McNally  Major
Trading Areas ("MTAs"),  while one 30MHz and three 10MHz  frequency  blocks were
awarded  for  each  of the  493  Rand  McNally  Basic  Trading  Areas  ("BTAs").
Additional future auctions of radio spectrum will further intensify competition.

      PCS technology  permits PCS operators to offer wireless voice, data, image
and multimedia services.  The largest PCS providers commenced initial operations
in late 1996 and since then have aggressively  expanded their operations.  These
providers have initially focused on larger markets,  and have generally marketed
PCS as being a competitive  service to cellular.  Many of these  companies  have
aggressively  competed  for  customers  on the basis of price,  which has placed
downward  pressure on cellular  prices.  There is at least one PCS competitor in
each of the Company's operated MSAs and some of its operated RSAs.

      In addition to PCS, current and prospective  users of cellular systems may
find  their  communication  needs  satisfied  by other  current  and  developing
technologies.  Several  years ago the FCC  authorized  the  licensees of certain
specialized  mobile radio  service  ("SMR")  systems  (which  historically  have
generally  been used by taxicabs and tow truck  operators)  to  configure  their
systems  into  digital  networks  that  operate in a manner  similar to cellular
systems.  Such systems are commonly referred to as enhanced  specialized  mobile
radio service ("ESMR")  systems.  FCC regulations  allow up to two ESMR carriers
per market. The Company believes that ESMR systems are operating in a few of its
cellular  markets.  One   well-established   ESMR  provider  has  constructed  a
nationwide  digital  mobile  communications  system  to  compete  with  cellular
systems. Other similar communication services that have the technical capability
to handle wireless  telephone calls may provide  competition in certain markets,
although  these  services  currently  lack the  subscriber  capacity of cellular
systems. Paging or beeper services that feature text message and data display as
well as tones  may be  adequate  for  potential  subscribers  who do not need to
converse  directly  with  the  caller.   Mobile  satellite  systems,   in  which
transmissions  are  between  mobile  units and  satellites,  may  ultimately  be
successful  in obtaining  market share from  cellular  systems that  communicate
directly  to  land-based  stations.   Other  future  technological  advances  or
regulatory changes (including  additional spectrum auctions) may result in other
alternatives  to  cellular  service,  thereby  creating  additional  sources  of
competition.

      Several large  wireless  carriers  have recently  taken one or more of the
following steps that could impact the Company's competitive position:

o     First,  several large wireless  carriers have merged with other  companies
      or formed marketing  alliances or joint ventures in order to enhance their
      ability to provide nationwide cellular or PCS service under a single brand
      name.  Although  the Company  believes  that most of the  customers in its
      smaller  markets  require only local or regional  services,  the Company's
      wireless  operations  could be  negatively  impacted  if  competitors  are
      successful  in  marketing  their  nationwide  services  in  the  Company's
      markets.

o     Second,  several  large  wireless  carriers  have taken  initial  steps to
      provide   wireless  data,   short   messaging  and  other  enhanced  "next
      generation" digital wireless services.  In connection  therewith,  several
      large  domestic  carriers that currently use the TDMA standard have either
      announced  their  intention to abandon the TDMA  standard or have begun to
      overlay their TDMA systems with  additional  network  elements  permitting
      packet  data   transmissions.   The  Company  is  evaluating  whether  the
      opportunity to derive  additional  revenues from these  enhanced  services
      justify the capital  costs  necessary to provide  these  services.  If the
      Company  elects  to  continue  to  use  the  TDMA  standard  or to  forego
      implementation of "next generation"  technology or services,  there can be
      no assurance that the Company will be able to receive support from vendors
      or to compete effectively  against companies using different  technologies
      or offering more services.

      Although  it is  uncertain  how  competing  services  and  emerging  "next
generation"  technologies  will  ultimately  affect  the  Company,  the  Company
anticipates that it will continue to face increased  competition in its wireless
markets.

                                OTHER OPERATIONS

      The Company  provides long distance,  Internet access,  competitive  local
exchange services,  broadband data,  security  monitoring,  cable television and
interactive  services in certain local and regional markets,  as well as certain
printing and related services. The results of these operations,  which accounted
for 8.1% and 6.0%,  respectively,  of the  Company's  consolidated  revenues and
operating income during 2000, are reflected for financial  reporting purposes in
the "Other operations" section.

      Long distance.  In 1996 the Company began marketing long distance  service
in all of its equal access telephone  operating areas. At December 31, 2000, the
Company  provided long distance  services to  approximately  363,000  customers.
Approximately  75% of the  Company's  long  distance  revenues  are derived from
service  provided  to  residential  customers.  Although  the  Company  owns and
operates a long distance switch in LaCrosse, Wisconsin, it anticipates that most
of its future long  distance  service  revenues  will be  provided by  reselling
service  purchased  from other  facilities-based  long distance  providers.  The
Company  intends to continue to expand its long distance  business,  principally
through reselling arrangements.

      Internet access.  The Company began offering  traditional  Internet access
services to its  telephone  customers in 1995.  At December 31, 2000 the Company
provided  Internet access  services to  approximately  108,700  customers in 500
markets in 13 states. These 500 markets represent 64% of the access lines served
by the Company's LECs.

      In late  1999,  the  Company  began  offering  in select  markets  digital
subscriber line ("DSL")  Internet access services,  a high-speed  premium-priced
data  service.  At  December  31,  2000 the  Company  provided  DSL  service  to
approximately  6,000  customers in markets that cover  approximately  45% of the
access lines served by the Company's LECs  (exclusive of those lines acquired in
mid-2000 in the Verizon acquisitions).

      Competitive  local  exchange  services.  In late 2000,  the Company  began
offering  competitive  local  exchange  telephone  services,  coupled  with long
distance,  wireless,  Internet  access and other Company  services,  to small to
medium-sized businesses in two Louisiana wireless markets. The Company currently
plans to target a total of ten new  markets by year end 2001,  and has  budgeted
$20 million of capital expenditures for 2001 to enter these markets. The Company
expects  to incur an  operating  loss in 2001 of  approximately  $15  million in
connection with providing these services.

      Broadband data. In connection  with its long-range  plans to sell capacity
to other carriers in or near certain of its select markets,  the Company expects
to complete  construction and testing by the second quarter of 2001 of a 650-
to 700-mile fiber optic ring connecting  several  communities in southern and
central  Michigan.

      Security  monitoring.   The  Company  offers  24-hour  burglary  and  fire
monitoring  services  to  approximately  7,400  customers  in select  markets in
Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Texas and Ohio.

      Other. The Company also provides audiotext  services;  printing,  database
management and direct mail services;  and cable television services. The Company
is also in the process of  developing  an  integrated  billing and customer care
system  which will enable the Company to offer  customers  value  packaging  and
produce a single bill for multiple  services such as local telephone,  wireless,
Internet  access and long  distance.  From time to time the  Company  also makes
investments  in other  domestic or foreign  communications  companies,  the most
significant  of which to date is a minority  investment  in a start-up  Internet
service provider in India.

      Certain  service  subsidiaries  of the Company  provide  installation  and
maintenance  services,  materials  and  supplies,  and  managerial,   technical,
accounting and  administrative  services to the telephone and wireless operating
subsidiaries. In addition, the Company provides and bills management services to
subsidiaries and in certain instances makes interest-bearing advances to finance
construction  of  plant,   purchases  of  equipment  or  acquisitions  of  other
businesses. These transactions are recorded by the Company's regulated telephone
subsidiaries  at their cost to the extent  permitted by regulatory  authorities.
Intercompany  profit on transactions  with regulated  affiliates is limited to a
reasonable  return on investment and has not been  eliminated in connection with
consolidating the results of operations of CenturyTel and its subsidiaries. Such
intercompany profit is reflected in operating income in "Other operations".

                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

      This report on Form 10-K and other  documents  filed by the Company  under
the federal  securities laws include,  and future oral or written  statements or
press  releases  of  the  Company  and  its  management  may  include,   certain
forward-looking statements, including without limitation statements with respect
to  the  Company's   anticipated  future  operating  and  financial  performance
(including  the  impact  of  pending   acquisitions),   financial  position  and
liquidity, growth opportunities and growth rates, business prospects, regulatory
and competitive outlook,  investment and expenditure plans,  investment results,
financing  opportunities and sources  (including the impact of financings on the
Company's financial position,  financial performance or credit ratings), pricing
plans, strategic alternatives, business strategies, and other similar statements
of  expectations  or objectives that are highlighted by words such as "expects,"
"anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "projects," "seeks," "estimates,"
"hopes,"  "should," and "may," and variations  thereof and similar  expressions.
Such  forward-looking  statements are inherently  speculative and are based upon
several  assumptions  concerning future events, many of which are outside of the
Company's control. The Company's forward-looking statements, and the assumptions
upon which such statements are based,  are subject to  uncertainties  that could
cause the Company's  actual results to differ  materially from such  statements.
These uncertainties include but are not limited to those set forth below:

o     the Company's  ability to timely  consummate  acquisitions and effectively
      manage its growth,  including without  limitation the Company's ability to
      (i) integrate  newly-acquired  operations  into the Company's  operations,
      (ii) attract and retain technological,  managerial and other key personnel
      to  work at the  Company's  Monroe,  Louisiana  headquarters  or  regional
      offices, (iii) achieve projected economies of scale and cost savings, (iv)
      achieve  projected  growth and revenue targets  developed by management in
      valuing  newly-acquired  businesses,  (v)  upgrade  its  billing and other
      information  systems and (vi)  otherwise  monitor its  operations,  costs,
      regulatory  compliance,  and service  quality and maintain other necessary
      internal controls.

o     the  risks  inherent  in rapid  technological  change,  including  without
      limitation (i) the lack of assurance that the Company's  ongoing  wireless
      network improvements will be sufficient to meet or exceed the capabilities
      and quality of competing  networks,  (ii) technological  developments that
      could  make  the   Company's   analog  and   digital   wireless   networks
      uncompetitive  or  obsolete,  such  as the  risk  that  the  TDMA  digital
      technology  used by the Company  will be  uncompetitive  with  existing or
      future   "next   generation"   technologies,   and  (iii)  the  risk  that
      technologies  will not be developed or embraced by the Company on a timely
      or cost-effective basis or perform according to expectations.

o     the effects of ongoing  changes in the  regulation  of the  communications
      industry, including without limitation (i) changes as a result of the 1996
      Act and other similar federal and state  legislation and federal and state
      regulations   enacted   thereunder,    (ii)   greater   than   anticipated
      interconnection  requests or  competition  in the Company's  predominately
      rural local exchange telephone markets resulting therefrom,  (iii) greater
      than  anticipated  reductions  in  revenues  received  from the  Universal
      Service Fund or other  current or future  federal and state  support funds
      designed to compensate  LECs that provide  services in high-cost  markets,
      (iv) the final outcome of regulatory and judicial proceedings with respect
      to  interconnection  agreements  and  access  charge  reforms,  (v) future
      judicial or regulatory  actions taken in response to the 1996 Act and (vi)
      future  legislation or  regulations  addressing  potential  concerns about
      radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets and base stations, or the
      potential hazards of using wireless phones while driving motor vehicles.

o     the  effects  of  greater  than  anticipated  competition,  including  (i)
      competition from competitive local exchange companies or wireless carriers
      in the  Company's  local  exchange  markets and (ii) the  inability of the
      Company's  wireless   operations  to  compete  against  larger  nationwide
      wireless carriers on the basis of price,  service coverage area or product
      offerings, or due to other factors,  including technological  obsolescence
      or the lack of marketing or other resources.

o     possible  changes in the demand for the  Company's  products and services,
      including  without  limitation  (i)  lower  than  anticipated  demand  for
      traditional or premium  telephone  services or for additional access lines
      per household,  (ii) lower than anticipated  demand for wireless telephone
      services,  whether caused by changes in economic  conditions,  technology,
      competition,  health concerns or otherwise,  (iii) lower than  anticipated
      demand for the  Company's  DSL Internet  access  services and (iv) reduced
      demand for the Company's access or billing and collection services.

o     the Company's ability to successfully  introduce new offerings on a timely
      and  cost-effective  basis,  including  without  limitation  the Company's
      ability  to  (i)  expand  successfully  its  long  distance  and  Internet
      offerings  to new markets  (including  those to be acquired in  connection
      with future  acquisitions),  (ii) offer bundled service  packages on terms
      attractive to its customers and (iii)  successfully  initiate  competitive
      local exchange and data services in its targeted markets.

o     regulatory  limits on the  Company's  ability  to change  its  prices  for
      telephone services in response to competitive pressures.

o     any difficulties in the Company's  ability to expand through  attractively
      priced acquisitions,  whether caused by financing constraints,  a decrease
      in  the  pool  of  attractive   target   companies,   or  competition  for
      acquisitions from other interested buyers.

o     the  possibility  of the need to make  abrupt and  potentially  disruptive
      changes  in  the  Company's   business   strategies   due  to  changes  in
      competition, regulation, technology, product acceptance or other factors.

o     higher  than  anticipated  wireless  operating  costs  due to  churn or to
      fraudulent  uses of the  Company's  networks,  or lower  than  anticipated
      wireless revenues due to reduced roaming fees.

o     the lack of  assurance  that the Company can compete  effectively  against
      better-capitalized competitors.

o     the  future   unavailability  of  SFAS  71  to  the  Company's   telephone
      subsidiaries.

o     the effects of more general factors, including without limitation:

         - changes in general industry and market conditions and growth rates

         - changes in interest rates or other general national, regional or
      local economic conditions

         - changes in legislation, regulation or public policy, including
      changes in federal rural financing programs

         - unanticipated increases in capital, operating or administrative
      costs, or the impact of new business opportunities requiring significant
      up-front investments

         - the continued availability of financing in amounts, and on terms and
      conditions, necessary to support the Company's operations

         - changes in the Company's relationships with vendors, or the failure
      of these vendors to provide competitive products on a timely basis

         - changes in the Company's senior debt ratings

         - unfavorable outcomes of regulatory or legal proceedings, including
      rate proceedings and environmental proceedings

         - losses or unfavorable returns on the Company's investments in other
      communications companies

         - delays in the construction of the Company's networks

         - changes in accounting policies or practices adopted voluntarily or as
      required by generally accepted accounting principles.

      For additional information,  see the description of the Company's business
included  above, as well as Item 7 of this report.  Due to these  uncertainties,
you are cautioned not to place undue reliance upon the Company's forward-looking
statements,  which  speak only as of the date made.  The Company  undertakes  no
obligation  to update or revise any of its  forward-looking  statements  for any
reason.

                                  OTHER MATTERS

      The Company has certain obligations based on federal, state and local laws
relating to the protection of the environment.  Costs of compliance through 2000
have not been  material and the Company  currently has no reason to believe that
such costs will become material.

      For additional  information  concerning the business and properties of the
Company,  see  notes 2, 4, 5, 12,  and 18 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements set forth in Item 8 elsewhere herein.

Item 2.       Properties.

      The Company's  properties  consist  principally  of (i)  telephone  lines,
central  office   equipment,   and  land  and  buildings  related  to  telephone
operations,  and (ii)  switching  and cell site  equipment  related to  cellular
telephone  operations.  As of December 31, 2000 and 1999,  the  Company's  gross
property,  plant and equipment of  approximately  $5.9 billion and $4.2 billion,
respectively, consisted of the following:



      "Cable and wire" facilities  consist  primarily of buried cable and aerial
cable,  poles,  wire,  conduit and drops.  "Central office  equipment"  consists
primarily of switching  equipment,  circuit  equipment  and related  facilities.
"General support" consists  primarily of land,  buildings,  tools,  furnishings,
fixtures,     motor     vehicles     and    work     equipment.     "Information
origination/termination  equipment"  consists  primarily  of  premise  equipment
(private branch exchanges and telephones) for official company use. "Cell sites"
consist primarily of radio frequency channel equipment,  switching equipment and
towers. "Construction in progress" includes property of the foregoing categories
that has not been placed in service because it is still under construction.

      Most of the properties of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are subject
to mortgages securing the debt of such companies. The Company owns substantially
all of the central office buildings, local administrative buildings, warehouses,
and storage facilities used in its telephone operations. The Company leases most
of the offices used in its wireless operations; certain of its transmitter sites
are leased while others are owned by the Company. For further information on the
location  and type of the  Company's  properties,  see the  descriptions  of the
Company's telephone and wireless operations in Item 1.

Item 3.       Legal Proceedings.

      From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation incidental to its
business,  including administrative hearings of state public utility commissions
relating  primarily  to  rate  making,  actions  relating  to  employee  claims,
occasional grievance hearings before labor regulatory agencies and miscellaneous
third party tort actions. Currently, there are no material legal proceedings.

Item 4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

     Not applicable.

                      Executive Officers of the Registrant

      Information  concerning  Executive Officers,  set forth at Item 10 in Part
III hereof, is incorporated in Part I of this Report by reference.

                                     PART II

Item 5.       Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
               Stockholder Matters.

      CenturyTel's  common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is
traded  under the symbol CTL.  The  following  table sets forth the high and low
sale  prices,  along  with the  quarterly  dividends,  for each of the  quarters
indicated:




      Common stock dividends during 2000 and 1999 were paid each quarter.  As of
February 28, 2001,  there were  approximately  5,550  stockholders  of record of
CenturyTel's common stock.

Item 6.       Selected Financial Data.

      The following table presents certain selected consolidated  financial data
as of and for each of the years ended in the five-year period ended December 31,
2000:





      The following table presents certain selected consolidated  operating data
as of the end of each of the years in the  five-year  period ended  December 31,
2000:



     See  Items 1 and 2 in Part I,  Item 7 in Part II and  notes  1, 2 and 5 of
Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 elsewhere herein
for additional information.

Item 7.       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
               Results of Operations

                              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

     CenturyTel,  Inc.  and  its  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  is a  regional
integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing local exchange,
wireless,  long distance,  Internet  access and data services to customers in 21
states.

     On July 31, 2000 and September 29, 2000, affiliates of the Company acquired
over  490,000  telephone  access  lines and  related  local  exchange  assets in
Arkansas, Missouri and Wisconsin from affiliates of Verizon Communications, Inc.
("Verizon") for an aggregate of approximately  $1.5 billion cash. On December 1,
1998,   the  Company   acquired  from   affiliates   of  Ameritech   Corporation
("Ameritech")  telephone and directory  operations serving  approximately 86,000
access lines in northern and central  Wisconsin for  approximately  $221 million
cash. The operations of these acquired  properties are included in the Company's
results of operations  beginning on the  respective  dates of  acquisition.  See
Acquisitions  and Note 2 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for
additional information.

     On May 14, 1999,  the Company sold  substantially  all of its  Alaska-based
operations  serving  approximately  134,900  telephone  access  lines  and 3,000
cellular  subscribers.  On June 1,  1999,  the  Company  sold the  assets of its
Brownsville and McAllen,  Texas cellular operations serving  approximately 7,500
cellular  subscribers.  In February  2000,  the  Company  sold the assets of its
remaining  Alaska  cellular  operations  serving  approximately  10,600 cellular
subscribers.  The  operations of these  disposed  properties are included in the
Company's results of operations up to the respective dates of disposition.

     During the three years ended  December 31,  2000,  the Company has acquired
and sold various other operations,  the impact of which has not been material to
the financial position or results of operations of the Company.

     The net income of the  Company  for 2000 was $231.5  million,  compared  to
$239.8 million during 1999 and $228.8 million during 1998.  Diluted earnings per
share for 2000 were $1.63 compared to $1.70 in 1999 and $1.64 in 1998.



     Contributions  to operating  revenues and operating income by the Company's
telephone, wireless and other operations for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2000 were as follows:



     In addition to historical information, management's discussion and analysis
includes  certain  forward-looking  statements  regarding  events and  financial
trends that may affect the  Company's  future  operating  results and  financial
position.  Such  forward-looking  statements are subject to  uncertainties  that
could  cause  the  Company's  actual  results  to  differ  materially  from such
statements.  Such  uncertainties  include but are not limited to: the  Company's
ability to effectively manage its growth,  including integrating  newly-acquired
businesses into the Company's  operations,  hiring adequate numbers of qualified
staff and successfully  upgrading its billing and other information systems; the
risks inherent in rapid technological  change; the effects of ongoing changes in
the regulation of the  telecommunications  industry; the effects of greater than
anticipated competition in the Company's markets; possible changes in the demand
for, or pricing of, the Company's  products and services;  the Company's ability
to  successfully  introduce  new  product or service  offerings  on a timely and
cost-effective basis; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in
general market or economic  conditions or in  legislation,  regulation or public
policy.  These and other uncertainties  related to the business are described in
greater  detail in Item 1 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended  December 31, 2000.  You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
these  forward-looking  statements,  which  speak  only  as of the  date of this
report.   The  Company   undertakes   no   obligation   to  update  any  of  its
forward-looking statements for any reason.


TELEPHONE OPERATIONS

     The Company conducts its telephone operations in rural,  suburban and small
urban  communities in 21 states.  As of December 31, 2000,  approximately 87% of
the Company's 1.8 million access lines were in Wisconsin,  Arkansas, Washington,
Missouri,  Michigan,  Louisiana,  Colorado,  Ohio,  and  Oregon.  The  operating
revenues,  expenses and income of the Company's  telephone  operations for 2000,
1999 and 1998 are summarized below.



      Local service revenues -  Local  service  revenues  are  derived  from the
provision of local exchange  telephone  services in the Company's service areas.
Of the $55.0 million (15.6%)  increase in local service  revenues in 2000, $46.5
million  was  due to  the  acquisition  of the  Verizon  properties,  which  was
partially  offset by a $14.4 million  decrease  attributable  to the sale of the
Company's  Alaska-based  operations in the second quarter of 1999. The remaining
$22.9  million  increase  was due to a $16.4  million  increase  due to internal
growth in the number of customer access lines and a $5.4 million increase due to
the increased provision of custom calling features.  Of the $21.8 million (6.6%)
increase  in local  service  revenues  in  1999,  $21.1  million  was due to the
acquisition of the Ameritech  properties,  which was more than offset by a $22.8
million  decrease  attributable  to  the  sale  of  the  Company's  Alaska-based
operations.  The  remaining  $23.5  million  increase was due to a $15.6 million
increase  due to internal  growth in the number of customer  access  lines and a
$4.1 million increase due to the increased provision of custom calling features.
Internal  access line growth during 2000, 1999 and 1998 was 2.8%, 4.8% and 4.7%,
respectively.  The  decrease  in internal  access  line  growth  during 2000 was
partially  due to  disconnecting  service to customers for  non-payment  and the
replacement  of lines with  high-speed  data circuits.

     Network  access  revenues - Network access  revenues are primarily  derived
from charges to long distance  companies  and other  customers for access to the
Company's  local  exchange  carrier  ("LEC")  networks  in  connection  with the
completion of long distance  telephone calls.  These access charges are based on
tariffed access rates filed with the Federal  Communications  Commission ("FCC")
for interstate  services and with the  respective  state  regulatory  agency for
intrastate services. Certain of the Company's interstate network access revenues
are based on access  charges filed  directly with the FCC; the remainder of such
revenues  are  derived  under  revenue  sharing  arrangements  with  other  LECs
administered by the National Exchange Carrier  Association.  Intrastate  network
access revenues are based on access charges or are derived under revenue sharing
arrangements  with other LECs.

     Network access  revenues  increased $73.8 million (11.3%) in 2000 and $24.4
million (3.9%) in 1999 due to the following factors:

                                                           2000          1999
                                                         increase      increase
                                                        (decrease)    (decrease)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

Acquisitions                                            $ 75,938        17,645
Increased recovery from the federal
  Universal Service Fund ("USF")                          15,753         8,193
Disposition of Alaska properties                         (23,348)      (39,985)
Partial recovery of increased operating
  costs through revenue sharing arrangements
  with other telephone companies, increased
  minutes of use, increased recovery from
  state support funds and return on rate base              3,637        19,524
Revision of prior year revenue settlement agreements       4,228        15,944
Other, net                                                (2,414)        3,099
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        $ 73,794        24,420
================================================================================

      Other revenues -  Other revenues include revenues  related to (i) leasing,
selling,    installing,    maintaining    and   repairing    customer    premise
telecommunications equipment and wiring ("CPE services"), (ii) providing billing
and collection  services for long distance  carriers and (iii)  participating in
the publication of local directories. Other revenues decreased $941,000 in 2000,
primarily  due  to a  $6.3  million  decrease  due to  the  sale  of the  Alaska
properties and a $5.4 million decrease from the provision of CPE services, which
benefited in 1999 from sales to customers  readying their equipment for the Year
2000.  Such  decreases  were  substantially  offset by a $10.8 million  increase
attributable to revenues  contributed by the Verizon properties.  Other revenues
increased  $2.6  million  in  1999,  primarily  due to a $5.0  million  increase
attributable  to revenues  contributed  by the Ameritech  properties  and a $6.4
million  increase  from the  provision  of CPE  services.  Such  increases  were
partially  offset  by a $9.2  million  decrease  due to the  sale of the  Alaska
properties.

      Operating expenses -  Plant operations   expenses  during  2000  and  1999
increased $38.4 million (15.2%) and $17.8 million (7.6%),  respectively.  Of the
$38.4 million increase in 2000, $44.8 million was attributable to the properties
acquired from Verizon,  which was partially  offset by a $13.0 million  decrease
due to the sale of the Alaska  properties.  The remaining $6.6 million  increase
was primarily due to a $4.7 million increase in salaries and benefits and a $2.4
million increase in network  operations and engineering  expenses.  Of the $17.8
million  increase in 1999,  $13.2  million was  attributable  to the  properties
acquired from Ameritech,  which was more than offset by a $23.7 million decrease
due to the sale of the Alaska  properties.  The remaining $28.3 million increase
was primarily due to a $7.4 million increase in access expenses primarily due to
changes in revenue  settlement  methods of certain  telephone  subsidiaries in a
limited  number of states;  a $5.6  million  increase in repair and  maintenance
expenses  and a $5.6  million  increase in network  operations  and  engineering
expenses.

      Customer operations,  corporate and other expenses increased $20.5 million
(8.2%) in 2000 and $1.7 million (.7%) in 1999. Of the $20.5 million  increase in
2000, $34.0 million related to the Verizon properties which was partially offset
by an $11.4 million  decrease due to the sale of the Alaska  properties in 1999.
The remaining $2.1 million  decrease in 2000 was primarily due to a $5.6 million
decrease in contract labor expenses primarily  associated with costs incurred in
1999 attributable to readying the Company's system to be Year 2000 compliant and
an $8.2 million  decrease in operating  taxes.  Such  decreases  were  partially
offset by a $7.7 million  increase in the provision for doubtful  accounts and a
$2.4  million  increase  in  information   technology  expenses.  The  Ameritech
properties  contributed  $12.5 million of the 1999  increase.  Such increase was
more  than  offset by a $19.8  million  decrease  due to the sale of the  Alaska
properties.  The remaining $9.0 million  increase in 1999 was primarily due to a
$6.5 million  increase in contract labor expenses  attributable  to readying the
Company's systems to be Year 2000 compliant; a $2.8 million increase in expenses
associated with the provision of CPE services and a $3.0 million increase in the
provision for doubtful accounts. Such increases in 1999 were partially offset by
a $5.9 million decrease in salaries and benefits  primarily due to a decrease in
the number of administrative personnel.

      Depreciation  and  amortization  increased $44.2 million (16.2%) and $12.3
million (4.7%) in 2000 and 1999, respectively.  Of the $44.2 million increase in
2000,  $44.6 million was  attributable  to the properties  acquired from Verizon
(which  included $8.5 million of amortization of goodwill) and $11.8 million was
primarily  due to  higher  levels  of  plant in  service.  Such  increases  were
partially  offset by a $10.6 million  reduction  resulting  from the sale of the
Company's  Alaska  properties.  Of the 1999  increase  of $12.3  million,  $17.1
million was  attributable to the properties  acquired from Ameritech,  which was
more  than  offset by a $17.8  million  decrease  due to the sale of the  Alaska
properties.  The remainder of the increase in depreciation  and  amortization in
1999 was due to higher  levels of plant in service.  Exclusive of  acquisitions,
depreciation  expense  included  nonrecurring  additional  depreciation  charges
approved by regulators in certain jurisdictions which aggregated $4.1 million in
2000 and $10.7 million in 1999. In addition,  the Company increased depreciation
rates in certain  jurisdictions  which  increased  depreciation  expense by $2.7
million in 2000 and $2.2 million in 1999.  The composite  depreciation  rate for
the  Company's   regulated  telephone   properties,   including  the  additional
depreciation  charges, was 7.2% for 2000, 7.0% for 1999 and 6.9% for 1998.

     Other - For  additional  information  regarding  certain  matters that have
impacted or may impact the Company's  telephone  operations,  see Regulation and
Competition.

WIRELESS OPERATIONS AND INCOME FROM UNCONSOLIDATED CELLULAR ENTITIES


     The Company's  wireless  operations  (discussed  below) reflect 100% of the
results of  operations  of the  cellular  entities  in which the  Company  has a
majority ownership  interest.  The minority interest owners' share of the income
of such entities is reflected in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income
as an expense in  "Minority  interest."  See Minority  Interest  for  additional
information. The Company's share of earnings from the cellular entities in which
it has less than a majority  interest is accounted  for using the equity  method
and is reflected in the Company's  Consolidated  Statements of Income in "Income
from unconsolidated  cellular entities." See Income from Unconsolidated Cellular
Entities for additional information.

WIRELESS OPERATIONS

      All of the Company's wireless  customers,  which totaled more than 751,000
at  December  31,  2000,   are  located  in  Michigan,   Louisiana,   Wisconsin,
Mississippi,  Texas and Arkansas. The operating revenues, expenses and income of
the Company's wireless operations for 2000, 1999 and 1998 are summarized below.



      Operating revenues -  Service revenues  include  monthly  service fees for
providing  access and airtime to customers  and toll revenue.  Roaming  revenues
include service fees for providing airtime to other carriers'  customers roaming
through the Company's  service areas.

     Of the $24.0 million  increase in service  revenues in 2000,  $31.6 million
was due to an increase in local service revenues  primarily due to growth in the
number of customers  and increased  minutes of use per  customer,  both of which
were partially offset by reduced rates. Such increase was partially offset by an
$8.0  million  decrease  due to  the  sale  of the  Texas  and  Alaska  cellular
properties.  Of the $6.7  million  decrease in roaming  revenues  in 2000,  $3.2
million was due to a reduction in roaming rates (which was  partially  offset by
an  increase  in  roaming  minutes of use),  a downward  trend in rates that the
Company  anticipates  will  continue in the near  future.  The  remainder of the
decrease in roaming revenues in 2000 was due to the sale of the Texas and Alaska
cellular  properties  in  mid-1999.  Of the $2.5  million  increase  in  service
revenues in 1999,  $5.9 million was due to growth in the number of customers and
increased  minutes of use, both of which were partially offset by reduced rates.
Such increase was partially offset by a $3.6 million decrease due to the sale of
the Texas and Alaska cellular properties in mid-1999. The $10.2 million increase
in roaming  revenues in 1999 was primarily due to an increase in roaming minutes
of use which was partially offset by reduced rates.

     The following  table  illustrates  the  growth in the  Company's  wireless
customer base in its majority-owned markets:



      The average monthly revenue per customer  declined to $49 during 2000 from
$53 in 1999 and $57 in 1998 primarily due to reductions in service rates charged
to the  Company's  customers,  reductions  in  roaming  rates  charged  to other
cellular  operators,  and the  continued  trend that a higher  percentage of new
customers  tend to be lower usage  customers.  The average  monthly  revenue per
customer is expected to further decline (i) as market penetration  increases and
additional lower usage customers are activated; (ii) as the Company continues to
receive pressure from other cellular operators to reduce roaming rates and (iii)
as  competitive  pressures  from  current  and  future  wireless  communications
providers intensify. The Company is responding to such competitive pressures by,
among  other  things,  modifying  certain  of its price  plans and  implementing
certain  other plans and  promotions,  some of which may result in lower average
revenue per  customer.

     During 2000 the Company added  approximately  82,500 net contract customers
while the prepaid customer base declined by 28,100  customers.  The Company will
continue to focus on adding  contract  customers  while  decreasing its focus on
prepaid plans for future customer growth.  At December 31, 2000, over 90% of the
Company's wireless customers were contract customers.

     Operating  expenses - Cost of equipment sold increased $8.7 million (40.4%)
in 2000 and $4.4  million  (26.0%) in 1999  primarily  due to an increase in the
number of phones sold and an increase in average cost per unit  primarily due to
a higher percentage of digital phones sold.

     System  operations   expenses  increased  $12.8  million  (22.5%)  in  2000
primarily due to a $5.9 million  increase  associated  with  operating a greater
number of cell sites and a $4.5  million  increase  in the net  amounts  paid to
other carriers for service  provided to the Company's  customers who roam in the
other carriers' service areas. System operations expenses decreased $3.2 million
(5.3%) in 1999 primarily due to a $3.8 million  decrease in the net amounts paid
to other  carriers for service  provided to the Company's  customers who roam in
the other carriers'  service areas primarily due to a decrease in roaming rates;
a $1.7 million  decrease in toll costs;  and a $1.9 million decrease in expenses
attributable  to operations  sold during 1999.  Such  decreases  were  partially
offset by a $4.3  million  increase  in  expenses  associated  with  operating a
greater number of cell sites.

      The Company  operated  743 cell sites at December  31, 2000 in entities in
which it had a majority  interest,  compared to 711 at December 31, 1999 and 644
at December 31, 1998.

      General,  administrative  and customer  service  expenses  decreased  $1.5
million (1.9%) in 2000, of which $3.3 million was  attributable to a decrease in
operating  taxes and $1.5  million  was due to the sale of the  Alaska and Texas
properties.  Such decreases were partially  offset by a $2.2 million increase in
the  provision  for  doubtful  accounts.  General,  administrative  and customer
service  expenses  decreased  $1.8 million (2.2%) in 1999, of which $9.0 million
was  attributable  to a decrease in the  provision for doubtful  accounts.  Such
decrease was substantially offset by a $2.9 million increase in customer service
expenses;  a $2.1 million  increase in contract labor expenses  associated  with
readying the  Company's  systems to be Year 2000  compliant;  and a $3.4 million
increase in general office expenses.

      Sales and marketing expenses increased $20.8 million (33.6%) due primarily
to a $5.2  million  increase  in  sales  commissions  paid to  agents  due to an
increase in the number of units sold;  an $8.6 million  increase in  advertising
and sales promotion  expenses;  and a $4.2 million increase in costs incurred in
selling products and services in retail  locations  primarily due to an increase
in the number of retail locations.  Sales and marketing  expenses increased $3.9
million  (6.8%)  in 1999  primarily  due to a $4.0  million  increase  in  costs
incurred in selling products and services in retail locations and a $2.0 million
increase in advertising expenses. Such increases were partially offset by a $2.1
million  reduction  in  commissions  paid to agents for selling  services to new
customers primarily as a result of fewer cellular units being added through this
distribution channel during 1999 as compared to 1998 and a $1.2 million decrease
in expenses due to the Company's sale of its Texas and Alaska properties.

     Depreciation  and  amortization  decreased  $3.4  million  (4.9%)  in 2000,
primarily due to the sale of the Alaska and Texas  properties.  Depreciation and
amortization  increased $6.2 million  (10.0%) in 1999, of which $4.0 million was
due  to an  increase  in  amortization  of  intangibles  and  $2.5  million  was
attributable to a higher level of plant in service.

     Other - For  additional  information  regarding  certain  matters that have
impacted or may impact the Company's  wireless  operations,  see  Regulation and
Competition.

OTHER OPERATIONS

     Other operations  includes the results of operations of subsidiaries of the
Company which are not included in the telephone or wireless segments  including,
but not limited to, the Company's long distance operations, Internet operations,
call center  operations  (which ceased operations in the third quarter of 2000),
competitive  local  exchange  carrier   operations,   and  security   monitoring
operations.  The operating revenues,  expenses and income of the Company's other
operations for 2000, 1999 and 1998 are summarized below.



      Long distance  revenues  increased $21.3 million (25.7%) and $30.1 million
(56.7%)  in 2000 and 1999,  respectively,  due  primarily  to the  growth in the
number of customers.  The number of long  distance  customers as of December 31,
2000, 1999, and 1998 was 363,300, 303,700, and 226,700,  respectively.  Internet
revenues  increased $6.7 million (39.7%) in 2000 primarily due to a $6.9 million
increase  due to growth in the number of customers  and a $1.4 million  increase
due to Internet  operations  acquired in late 1999 and mid-2000.  Such increases
were  partially  offset  by a $2.3  million  decrease  due to  the  sale  of the
Company's Alaska Internet  operation in mid-1999.  Internet  revenues  increased
$2.6  million  (17.9%) in 1999  primarily  due to an  increase  in the number of
customers.  The $8.0 million decrease in call center revenues in 2000 was due to
the planned phase-out of the Company's third party call center operations during
2000.

      Operating  expenses during 2000 increased $11.4 million (10.8%)  primarily
due to an increase of $12.3 million in expenses of the  Company's  long distance
operations  primarily due to increased  minutes of use due to an increase in the
number of customers which was partially  offset by reduced rates; a $9.8 million
increase in expenses associated with expanding the Company's Internet operations
and a $3.4 million  increase in expenses  primarily due to start-up costs of the
Company's  competitive  local  exchange  carrier  business.  Such increases were
partially offset by a $9.0 million reduction in expenses due to the winding down
of the  Company's  third  party call  center  operations  during 2000 and a $2.4
million  decrease  due  to  the  1999  sale  of the  Company's  Alaska  Internet
operations.

      Operating  expenses in 1999 increased $29.9 million (39.4%)  primarily due
to (i) an increase of $17.8 million in expenses of the  Company's  long distance
operations  primarily due to the increased  minutes of use due to an increase in
the number of long distance  customers,  (ii) a $6.7 million increase associated
with the Company's call center  operations and (iii) a $3.8 million  increase in
expenses due to the expansion of the  Company's  security  monitoring  and fiber
network  businesses.  In January 2000, the Company announced that it would close
its third party call center operations during 2000.  Included in total operating
expenses for 1999 is a $2.7 million  charge to write down the assets of the call
center to estimated net realizable value.

      The Company  anticipates that the growth of operating income for its other
operations will slow in future periods as it incurs increasingly larger expenses
in connection  with expanding its fiber network and  competitive  local exchange
carrier  businesses.  The  Company  expects to incur a combined  operating  loss
ranging  from $15 to $20 million in 2001 in its fiber  network  and  competitive
local exchange carrier businesses.

      Certain  of  the  Company's  service   subsidiaries   provide  managerial,
operational,  technical,  accounting  and  administrative  services,  along with
materials and supplies, to the Company's telephone  subsidiaries.  In accordance
with regulatory  accounting,  intercompany profit on transactions with regulated
affiliates has not been eliminated in connection with  consolidating the results
of  operations of the Company.  When the regulated  operations of the Company no
longer  qualify  for  the  application  of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards  No. 71 ("SFAS 71"),  "Accounting  for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation," such intercompany profit will be eliminated in subsequent financial
statements, the primary result of which will be a decrease in operating expenses
applicable to the Company's  telephone  operations  and an increase in operating
expenses   applicable  to  the  Company's  other   operations.   The  amount  of
intercompany  profit with  regulated  affiliates  which was not  eliminated  was
approximately  $17.1 million,  $14.0 million and $14.4 million in 2000, 1999 and
1998,  respectively.  For  additional  information  applicable  to SFAS 71,  see
Regulation and Competition -- Other Matters and Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

GAIN ON SALE OR EXCHANGE OF ASSETS, NET

      In 2000, the Company  recorded  pre-tax gains  aggregating  $20.6 million.
Approximately  $9.9 million ($5.2 million after tax; $.04 per diluted share) was
due to the  sale  of the  assets  of the  Company's  remaining  Alaska  cellular
operations  and  approximately  $10.7  million ($6.4 million after tax; $.05 per
diluted  share)  was due to the sale of the  Company's  minority  interest  in a
non-strategic cellular partnership.

      In 1999, the Company  recorded  pre-tax gains  aggregating  $62.8 million.
Approximately  $10.4  million of the pre-tax gains ($6.7 million after tax; $.04
per diluted share) was due to the sale of the Company's  remaining common shares
of MCIWorldCom,  Inc.  ("WorldCom").  Approximately $39.6 million of the pre-tax
gains ($7.8 million  after-tax loss; $.05 per diluted share) was due to the sale
of the  Company's  Brownsville  and  McAllen,  Texas  cellular  properties.  The
remainder of the gains in 1999 was  primarily  due to an $11.6  million  pre-tax
gain ($7.6  million  after tax;  $.05 per diluted  share) due to the sale of the
Company's shares of common stock of Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. See Note 12
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

      In 1998 the Company recorded net pre-tax gains  aggregating  $49.9 million
($30.5  million  after  tax;  $.22  per  diluted  share)  primarily  due  to the
conversion  of its  investment  in the common stock of Brooks Fiber  Properties,
Inc. into common stock of WorldCom,  the  subsequent  sale of 750,000  shares of
WorldCom stock, and the sale of minority interests in two non-strategic cellular
entities.

INTEREST EXPENSE

      Interest  expense  increased  $32.7 million in 2000 primarily due to $41.5
million in interest expense related to the Verizon acquisition  indebtedness and
a $6.8 million  increase caused by higher  interest  rates.  Such increases were
partially offset by interest expense  reductions  primarily due to a decrease in
outstanding   indebtedness   exclusive  of  debt  associated  with  the  Verizon
acquisitions.

      Interest  expense  decreased  $17.0  million  in 1999  primarily  due to a
reduction  in  outstanding  indebtedness.  Income From  Unconsolidated  Cellular
Entities Earnings from unconsolidated cellular entities, net of the amortization
of  associated  goodwill,  decreased  $689,000  (2.5%) in 2000 and $5.2  million
(15.8%)  in  1999.   During  both  2000  and  1999,  the  Company  recorded  its
proportionate share ($5.3 million in 2000 and $6.9 million in 1999) of non-cash,
non-recurring  charges  that were  recorded  by  cellular  entities in which the
Company owns a minority interest.

MINORITY INTEREST

      Minority  interest is the  expense  recorded by the Company to reflect the
minority interest owners' share of the earnings of the Company's  majority-owned
subsidiaries.  Minority interest decreased $17.7 million during 2000 compared to
1999 primarily due to the minority partners' share of the gain on sale of assets
of the  Brownsville  and McAllen,  Texas cellular  properties  recorded in 1999.
Excluding  the effect of this gain,  minority  interest  decreased  $2.8 million
primarily due to the decreased profitability of the Company's majority-owned and
operated  cellular  entities  ($1.3  million) and due to the minority  partners'
share of the loss incurred by certain of the operations acquired from Verizon by
CenturyTel's   majority-owned  affiliates  ($1.6  million).   Minority  interest
increased $15.1 million during 1999,  substantially  all of which relates to the
minority  partners'  share of the gain on sale of assets of the  Brownsville and
McAllen, Texas cellular properties.

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE

      Other income and expense decreased $2.5 million in 2000 primarily due to a
$7.9 million  charge  related to the  settlement of certain  interest rate hedge
contracts  entered into in connection  with financing the Verizon  acquisitions.
Such  decrease  was  partially  offset by a $4.1  million  increase  in interest
income.

      Other income and expense increased $3.9 million in 1999, substantially all
of which relates to favorable  non-recurring  items recorded in 1999.

INCOME TAX EXPENSE

     The Company's effective income tax rate was 40.1%, 44.1% and 41.0% in 2000,
1999 and 1998,  respectively.  Exclusive  of the effect of income tax expense on
asset sales, the effective  income tax rate was 39.9%,  39.0% and 41.3% in 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively.

ACQUISITIONS

      On July  31,  2000 and  September  29,  2000,  affiliates  of the  Company
acquired over 490,000  telephone access lines and related assets from Verizon in
four separate  transactions for approximately  $1.5 billion in cash. The Company
has made  preliminary  estimates of the fair value and useful lives of Verizon's
noncurrent  assets and  liabilities.  Such  estimates are subject to change upon
completion of the purchase price allocation. Under these transactions:

o  On July 31,  2000,  the Company  purchased  approximately  231,000  telephone
   access lines and related  local  exchange  assets  comprising  106  exchanges
   throughout Arkansas for approximately $842 million in cash.

o  On July 31, 2000,  Spectra  Communications  Group, LLC ("Spectra")  purchased
   approximately  127,000  telephone  access  lines and related  local  exchange
   assets comprising 107 exchanges  throughout  Missouri for approximately  $297
   million cash. At December 31, 2000, the Company owned 57.1% of Spectra, which
   was organized to acquire and operate these Missouri  properties.  At closing,
   the Company made a preferred  equity  investment in Spectra of  approximately
   $55 million and financed  substantially  all of the remainder of the purchase
   price.

o  On September 29, 2000, the Company purchased approximately 70,500 telephone
   access  lines and related  local  exchange  assets  comprising  42  exchanges
   throughout Wisconsin for approximately $197 million in cash.

o  On September 29, 2000, Telephone USA of Wisconsin, LLC ("TelUSA") purchased
   approximately 62,900 telephone access lines and related local exchange assets
   comprising 35 exchanges  throughout  Wisconsin for approximately $172 million
   in cash.  The Company owns 89% of TelUSA,  which was organized to acquire and
   own these  Wisconsin  properties.  At  closing,  the  Company  made an equity
   investment   in  TelUSA  of   approximately   $37.8   million  and   financed
   substantially all of the remainder of the purchase price.

     The  purchase  prices   discussed   above  reflect   various   post-closing
adjustments  made to date.  Any  remaining  adjustments  are not  expected to be
material.

      To finance these  acquisitions on a short-term basis, the Company borrowed
$1.157  billion  on a  floating-rate  basis  under its new $1.5  billion  credit
facility with Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank,  N.A., as lenders, and Banc of
America Securities LLC and Salomon Smith Barney Inc., as arrangers, and borrowed
$300 million on a  floating-rate  basis under its existing  credit facility with
Bank of America, N.A.

     On October 19,  2000,  the Company  issued  $500  million of 8.375%  Senior
Notes,  Series H, due 2010, and $400 million of 7.75% Remarketable Senior Notes,
Series I, due 2012 (with a remarketing  date of October 15, 2002) under its $2.0
billion  shelf  registration  statement  filed in May 2000.  The net proceeds of
approximately  $908 million  (excluding the Company's  payments of approximately
$12.3 million  associated with related interest rate hedging) were used to repay
a portion of the $1.457 billion of aggregate  indebtedness  the Company incurred
under its credit facilities in connection with the Verizon acquisitions.

      On  December  1,  1998,  the  Company  acquired  the  assets of certain of
Ameritech's  telephone  and  directory  operations  in  19  telephone  exchanges
covering 21 communities in northern and central Wisconsin for approximately $221
million  cash.  The  operations  acquired by the Company  include the  telephone
property and equipment serving approximately 86,000 access lines, as well as the
related nine telephone directories.

ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

      In June 1998 the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  ("FASB")  issued
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 133 ("SFAS 133"),  "Accounting
for  Derivative  Instruments  and Hedging  Activities."  In June 1999,  the FASB
deferred the effective date of SFAS 133 to fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2000.  SFAS 133  established  accounting and reporting  standards for derivative
instruments and for hedging  activities by requiring that entities recognize all
derivatives  as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the balance sheet.
The Company's use of derivative  financial  instruments to date has been limited
to entering  interest  rate hedge  contracts to reduce  interest  rate risk with
respect to anticipated public debt issuances. Based on the Company's current use
of  derivatives  and the  limited  number of  embedded  derivatives  in existing
agreements,  SFAS  133  is not  expected  to  materially  impact  the  Company's
financial position or results of operations.

     In December  1999,  the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  issued Staff
Accounting  Bulletin  No. 101 ("SAB  101"),  "Revenue  Recognition  in Financial
Statements."  SAB 101  summarizes  certain  of the  staff's  views  in  applying
generally  accepted  accounting  principles to revenue  recognition and deferred
costs in financial  statements.  SAB 101 was  effective  beginning in the fourth
quarter of 2000 and did not materially impact the Company's  financial  position
or results of operations.

     In the fourth  quarter  of 2000,  in  connection  with  finalizing  the new
accounting standard for business combinations,  the FASB announced its tentative
conclusion  that goodwill  arising from business  combinations,  including prior
business  combinations,  would no longer be required to be  amortized.  Goodwill
would  instead be  reviewed  for  impairment  and would be written  down only in
periods in which the  recorded  amount of goodwill  exceeds its fair value.  The
final standard on business  combinations is expected to be issued by the FASB by
the third quarter of 2001.

INFLATION

     The effects of  increased  costs  historically  have been  mitigated by the
Company's ability to recover certain costs applicable to its regulated telephone
operations through the rate-making  process.  While the rate-making process does
not permit  the  Company  to  immediately  recover  the costs of  replacing  its
physical plant, the Company has historically  been able to recapture these costs
over time. Possible future regulatory changes may alter the Company's ability to
recover increased costs in its regulated operations.  For additional information
regarding the current regulatory environment, see Regulation and Competition. As
operating expenses in the Company's  non-regulated lines of business increase as
a result of  inflation,  the Company,  to the extent  permitted by  competition,
recovers the costs by increasing prices for its services and equipment.

MARKET RISK

     The majority of the Company's long-term debt obligations are fixed rate. At
December 31, 2000, the fair value of the Company's  long-term debt was estimated
to be $3.1 billion based on the overall  weighted  average rate of the Company's
long-term debt of 7.3% and an overall weighted  maturity of 12 years compared to
terms and rates currently available in long-term financing markets. For purposes
hereof,  market risk is estimated as the potential decrease in fair value of the
Company's  long-term debt  resulting  from a  hypothetical  increase of 73 basis
points in interest rates (which  represents ten percent of the Company's overall
weighted  average  borrowing  rate).  Such an increase  in interest  rates would
result in approximately a $112.2 million decrease in fair value of the Company's
long-term debt. As of December 31, 2000, the Company owed $826.6 million of debt
on a floating-rate basis.

     In the first quarter of 2000, the Company  entered into interest rate hedge
contracts designed to reduce its interest rate risk with respect to $500 million
of long-term public debt that it ultimately expected to incur in connection with
providing long-term financing for its Verizon acquisitions. The Company recorded
a $7.9 million  charge to earnings in 2000 related to the  settlement of certain
of these hedge contracts.

                        LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Excluding cash used for  acquisitions,  the Company relies on cash provided
by  operations  to provide for its cash needs.  The  Company's  operations  have
historically  provided a stable source of cash flow which has helped the Company
continue its long-term program of capital improvements.

     Operating activities - Net cash provided by operating activities was $562.5
million, $408.7 million and $467.8 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
The Company's accompanying  consolidated statements of cash flows identify major
differences between net income and net cash provided by operating activities for
each of those  years.  For  additional  information  relating  to the  telephone
operations, wireless operations and other operations of the Company, see Results
of Operations.

     Investing  activities - Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
was ($1.914) billion, $69.8 million and ($375.6) million in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.   Cash  used  for   acquisitions   was  $1.541   billion  in  2000
(substantially all of which relates to the Verizon acquisitions),  $21.0 million
in 1999 and $225.6 million in 1998. Proceeds from the sales of assets were $29.5
million in 2000 compared to $484.5  million in 1999 and $132.3  million in 1998.
Capital  expenditures  for 2000 were $275.5  million for  telephone  operations,
$58.5 million for wireless  operations and $115.5 million for other  operations.
Capital  expenditures  during  1999 and 1998  were  $390.0  million  and  $310.9
million, respectively.

     Financing activities - Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.314
billion in 2000.  Net cash used in financing  activities  was $427.6  million in
1999 and $112.4  million in 1998.  Net  proceeds  from the issuance of debt were
$1.763 billion more during 2000 compared to 1999 primarily due to an increase in
borrowings due to the purchase of assets from Verizon.

     On July 31, 2000 and September 29, 2000, affiliates of the Company acquired
over  490,000  telephone  access  lines and related  assets from Verizon in four
separate  transactions for approximately  $1.5 billion in cash. See Acquisitions
and  Note  2 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  additional
information.  To finance these  acquisitions on a short-term  basis, the Company
borrowed  $1.157  billion on a  floating-rate  basis under its new $1.5  billion
credit facility with Bank of America,  N.A. and Citibank,  N.A., as lenders, and
Banc of America Securities LLC and Salomon Smith Barney Inc., as arrangers,  and
borrowed  $300  million  on a  floating-rate  basis  under its  existing  credit
facility with Bank of America, N.A.

     On October 19,  2000,  the Company  issued  $500  million of 8.375%  Senior
Notes,  Series H, due 2010, and $400 million of 7.75% Remarketable Senior Notes,
Series I, due 2012 (with a remarketing  date of October 15, 2002) under its $2.0
billion  shelf  registration  statement  filed in May 2000.  The net proceeds of
approximately  $908 million  (excluding the Company's  payments of approximately
$12.3 million  associated with related interest rate hedging) were used to repay
a portion of the $1.457 billion of aggregate  indebtedness  the Company incurred
under its credit facilities in connection with the Verizon acquisitions.

     Other - Budgeted  capital  expenditures  for 2001 total  $400  million  for
telephone  operations,  $70 million for wireless  operations and $80 million for
other  operations.  The Company  anticipates  that capital  expenditures  in its
telephone  operations  will continue to include the  installation of fiber optic
cable and the  upgrading  of its  plant and  equipment,  including  its  digital
switches,  to provide  enhanced  services,  particularly  in its newly  acquired
markets.  Capital  expenditures  in the  wireless  operations  are  expected  to
continue to focus on  constructing  additional  cell sites  (which will  provide
additional  capacity and expanded areas where  cellular  phones may be used) and
providing  digital service.  Budgeted capital  expenditures for other operations
include $20 million for construction of competitive local exchange networks.

     The Company continually  evaluates the possibility of acquiring  additional
telecommunications  operations and expects to continue its long-term strategy of
pursuing the acquisition of attractive communications properties in exchange for
cash,   securities  or  both.  The  Company  generally  does  not  announce  its
acquisitions  until it has entered into a preliminary  or definitive  agreement.
Over  the past few  years,  the  amount  and size of  communications  properties
available  to be  purchased  by the Company  has  increased  substantially.  The
Company  may  require   additional   financing  in  connection   with  any  such
acquisitions,  the  consummation  of which  could have a material  impact on the
Company's financial condition or operations. Approximately 4.6 million shares of
CenturyTel common stock and 200,000 shares of CenturyTel  preferred stock remain
available  for  future  issuance  in  connection  with  acquisitions   under  an
acquisition shelf registration statement.

     As of December 31, 2000, the Company's telephone subsidiaries had available
for use $129.5  million of  commitments  for long-term  financing from the Rural
Utilities  Service and the Company had $400.1 million of undrawn  committed bank
lines of credit.  In October 2000 the Company  implemented  a  commercial  paper
program that  authorizes  the Company to have  outstanding up to $1.5 billion in
commercial paper at any one time. The Company also has access to debt and equity
capital markets, including its shelf registration statements.

     In November 2000, the Company entered into a definitive agreement with Leap
Wireless  International,  Inc. to sell 30 PCS (Personal  Communications Service)
operating licenses for an aggregate of $205 million. The transaction is expected
to close in the first  quarter of 2001,  subject to (i)  approval of the Federal
Communications   Commission   and  (ii)  certain   other   closing   conditions.
Approximately  $119 million of the purchase  price will be delivered at closing.
The  remaining  $86  million  will be payable in the form of a  promissory  note
bearing 10% interest per annum.  $74 million will be payable  within nine months
after the issuance of the note with the remainder  payable in 2002 upon maturity
of the note.  These receipts will be used to pay down  indebtedness  incurred in
connection with the Company's recent acquisitions of properties from Verizon.

     On September  19,  2000,  Moody's  Investors  Service  ("Moody's")  lowered
CenturyTel's long-term debt rating to Baa2 (with a stable outlook) from Baa1 and
on  September  20,  2000,  Standard  & Poor's  ("S&P")  affirmed  its  rating of
CenturyTel's  long-term  debt of BBB+ (with a negative  outlook).  The Company's
commercial paper program initiated in October 2000 is rated P2 by Moody's and A2
by S&P.

     The following  table  reflects the Company's  debt to total  capitalization
percentage  and ratio of earnings to fixed charges as of and for the years ended
December 31:

                                               2000         1999          1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Debt to total capitalization percentage        63.1%        53.7          63.0
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges             3.08         3.76          3.25
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges
  excluding gain on sale or
  exchange of assets                           2.97         3.44          2.96
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           REGULATION AND COMPETITION

     The  communications  industry  continues  to  undergo  various  fundamental
regulatory,  legislative,  competitive  and  technological  changes that make it
difficult to determine the form or degree of future  regulation and  competition
affecting the Company's operations.  These changes may have a significant impact
on the future financial performance of all communications companies.

     Events  affecting the  communications  industry - In 1996 the United States
Congress  enacted the  Telecommunications  Act of 1996 (the "1996  Act"),  which
obligates LECs to permit  competitors to  interconnect  their  facilities to the
LEC's  network  and to take  various  other  steps that are  designed to promote
competition.  The 1996 Act provides  certain  exemptions  for rural LECs such as
those  operated by the Company.  Under the FCC's August 1996 order  implementing
most of the 1996 Act's interconnection provisions, rural LECs have the burden of
proving the availability of these exemptions.

     Prior to and since the  enactment  of the 1996 Act, the FCC and a number of
state  legislative  and regulatory  bodies have also taken steps to foster local
exchange  competition.  Coincident with this recent  movement  toward  increased
competition  has been the gradual  reduction  of  regulatory  oversight of LECs.
These cumulative  changes have led to the continued growth of various  companies
providing services that compete with LECs' services.  Wireless services entities
are also expected to increasingly compete with LECs.

     The  1996  Act  authorized  the  establishment  of new  federal  and  state
universal  service  funds to  provide  support  to  eligible  telecommunications
carriers.  These new funds are  intended  to replace  existing  federal  support
mechanisms that are based on historical  cost models and that currently  provide
approximately 8% of the Company's consolidated revenues. The FCC has established
a task force to recommend how universal  service  support should be administered
for rural LECs. This task force has  recommended a modified  embedded cost model
which,  if adopted in its current form,  would not have a material effect on the
Company's  consolidated  revenues or results of operations.  However, if the FCC
implements new universal service support  mechanisms for rural carriers based on
forward-looking  cost models (as it did for non-rural carriers in October 1999),
the Company's  consolidated  revenues  could be negatively  impacted.  Until new
support  mechanisms are finalized under the FCC's rulemaking  procedures,  there
can be no assurance  that the universal  service  support  mechanism  ultimately
adopted by the FCC will not negatively affect the Company's operations.

     On October 20,  2000,  a proposed  comprehensive  reform  plan  designed to
address access rates,  universal  service,  rate of return and  separations  was
filed with the FCC by a Multi Association Group representing small and mid-sized
telephone  companies  that  currently are regulated  under  traditional  rate of
return  mechanisms.  The proposed plan attempts to mirror certain  principles of
the access charge reform plan  implemented by the FCC for price cap companies in
mid-1999. Under this plan, companies would have a five-year period to transition
from  their  existing  forms  of  rate of  return  regulation  to a new  form of
incentive regulation.  If adopted in its current form, the plan would not have a
material  effect on the Company's  operating  revenues or results of operations;
however, until the plan is finalized under the rulemaking procedures of the FCC,
it is  premature to assess the ultimate  impact this  proposal  will have on the
Company.  There can be no assurance  that the plan, in its final form,  will not
have a material effect on the Company's results of operations.

     Competition to provide traditional  telephone or wireless services has thus
far  affected  large urban areas to a greater  extent than rural,  suburban  and
small urban areas such as those in which the Company's  operations  are located.
Although the Company has  increasingly  experienced  competition in its markets,
the Company does not believe such competition is likely to materially  affect it
in the near term.  The  Company  will  continue  to monitor  ongoing  changes in
regulation,  competition and technology and consider which developments  provide
the most favorable opportunities for the Company to pursue.

     The Company's wireless operations are subject to increased competition from
large wireless carriers offering  nationwide calling plans. The Company does not
offer a nationwide  calling plan at this time and may be hindered in its ability
to compete for customers seeking nationwide calling plans. Additionally, several
wireless  carriers have taken initial steps to abandon the TDMA standard used by
the  Company  and  to  provide  enhanced  "next  generation"  wireless  services
utilizing different  technologies.  If the Company elects to continue to use the
TDMA standard or to forego  implementation of enhanced wireless services,  there
can be no  assurance  that the  Company  will be able to  receive  support  from
vendors  or  to  compete   effectively   against   competitors  using  different
technologies or offering more services.

     Recent events  affecting  the Company - During 2000 the Company's  revenues
from the USF totaled  approximately  $146.4 million (which includes $8.3 million
related to the newly-acquired  Verizon  properties).  During 1999, such revenues
totaled  $127.5  million  (of which $5.2  million  related  to the Alaska  based
operations.)  Although  the Company may  experience  a reduction  in its federal
support  revenues  at  some  point  in the  future,  management  believes  it is
premature  to assess or estimate the ultimate  impact  thereof.  There can be no
assurance, however, that such impact will not be material.

     During  the  last few  years,  several  states  in which  the  Company  has
substantial operations took legislative or regulatory steps to further introduce
competition into the LEC business.  The number of companies which have requested
authorization to provide local exchange  service in the Company's  service areas
has increased in recent years, especially in the newly-acquired Verizon markets,
and it is anticipated that similar action may be taken by others in the future.

     State  alternative  regulation  plans  recently  adopted  by certain of the
Company's LECs have also affected revenue growth recently.  Although the Company
believes that these plans will be favorable in the future as additional  revenue
streams are added and cost efficiencies are obtained, these plans slowed revenue
growth  during 2000  because  they are more  closely  tied to access line growth
rather than  minutes of use growth,  which has  traditionally  grown at a faster
rate  than  access  lines.  There can be no  assurance  that  current  or future
alternative regulation plans will not reduce revenue growth in the future.

     Certain long distance  carriers continue to request that the Company reduce
intrastate  access tariffed rates for certain of its LECs. There is no assurance
that these requests will not result in reduced intrastate access revenues in the
future.  In  addition,  the Company  continues  to receive  pressure  from other
cellular operators to reduce roaming rates in the Company's cellular markets. In
response,  the Company  anticipates that it will enter into agreements that will
reduce its roaming rates from current levels.  The Company  further  anticipates
that the adverse  impact of reduced  roaming  rates may be  partially  offset by
increased roaming traffic.

     In connection with  authorizing the Company's  acquisition  from Verizon of
telephone  properties in  Wisconsin,  the Wisconsin  Public  Service  Commission
("WPSC") indicated its intent to review the possibility of regulating all of the
Company's  Wisconsin  local exchange  carriers on a unitary  basis,  which would
reduce the Company's revenues in Wisconsin (unless and to the extent the Company
could  mitigate  these  reductions  through rate  adjustments  or other  revenue
enhancements approved by the WPSC).

     In connection with this authorization,  the WPSC also rejected CenturyTel's
request to increase  the access  rates  previously  charged by  Verizon.  If the
Company's appeal of this ruling is unsuccessful,  the Verizon  acquisitions will
dilute the Company's 2001 earnings more than initially anticipated.

     In the fourth  quarter of 2000,  an  administrative  law judge in Wisconsin
issued a ruling,  which was accepted by the WPSC, declaring that the Company had
inappropriately  increased  access  rates it charges to  interexchange  carriers
following the Company's  acquisition of properties from Ameritech on December 1,
1998. Such ruling ordered the Company to  prospectively  reduce its access rates
and to refund  interexchange  carriers the  difference  between the access rates
billed  by the  Company  and the  previous  access  rates  billed  by  Ameritech
retroactive to the December 1, 1998  acquisition  date. The Company has filed an
appeal to the ruling.  If its appeal is  unsuccessful,  the Company  anticipates
that it will be required to incur a future pre-tax charge to earnings of between
$6.0 - $8.0 million.

     The Company  anticipates that regulatory changes and competitive  pressures
may result in future revenue reductions in its operations.  However, the Company
anticipates  that such  reductions  may be  minimized  by  increases in revenues
attributable  to the  continued  demand for  enhanced  services  and new product
offerings. While the Company expects its telephone revenues to continue to grow,
its internal telephone revenue growth rate may slow during upcoming periods.

     Other matters - The Company's regulated telephone operations are subject to
the  provisions  of SFAS 71,  under which the Company is required to account for
the economic  effects of the rate-making  process,  including the recognition of
depreciation  of plant and  equipment  over lives  approved by  regulators.  The
ongoing applicability of SFAS 71 to the Company's regulated telephone operations
is being monitored due to the changing  regulatory,  competitive and legislative
environments. When the regulated operations of the Company no longer qualify for
the  application  of SFAS 71,  the net  adjustments  required  will  result in a
material,  extraordinary,  noncash charge against earnings.  While the amount of
such charge cannot be precisely estimated at this time, management believes that
the noncash,  after-tax,  extraordinary charge would be between $400 million and
$450 million.  See Note 11 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for
additional information.

     The Company has certain obligations based on federal,  state and local laws
relating to the protection of the environment.  Costs of compliance through 2000
have not been material,  and the Company currently has no reason to believe that
such costs will become material.

Item 7a.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

     The majority of the Company's long-term debt obligations are fixed rate. At
December 31, 2000, the fair value of the Company's  long-term debt was estimated
to be $3.1 billion based on the overall  weighted  average rate of the Company's
long-term debt of 7.3% and an overall weighted  maturity of 12 years compared to
terms and rates currently available in long-term financing markets. For purposes
hereof,  market risk is estimated as the potential decrease in fair value of the
Company's  long-term debt  resulting  from a  hypothetical  increase of 73 basis
points in interest rates (which  represents ten percent of the Company's overall
weighted  average  borrowing  rate).  Such an increase  in interest  rates would
result in approximately a $112.2 million decrease in fair value of the Company's
long-term debt. As of December 31, 2000, the Company owed $826.6 million of debt
on a floating-rate basis.

     In the first quarter of 2000, the Company  entered into interest rate hedge
contracts designed to reduce its interest rate risk with respect to $500 million
of long-term public debt that it ultimately expected to incur in connection with
providing long-term financing for its Verizon acquisitions. The Company recorded
a $7.9 million  charge to earnings in 2000 related to the  settlement of certain
of these hedge contracts.





Item 8.       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

                              Report of Management
The Shareholders
CenturyTel, Inc.:

     Management has prepared and is responsible  for the Company's  consolidated
financial statements.  The consolidated  financial statements have been prepared
in accordance  with generally  accepted  accounting  principles and  necessarily
include  amounts   determined  using  our  best  judgments  and  estimates  with
consideration given to materiality.

     The Company  maintains  internal  control systems and related  policies and
procedures designed to provide reasonable  assurance that the accounting records
accurately  reflect  business  transactions  and  that the  transactions  are in
accordance with management's authorization.  The design, monitoring and revision
of the systems of internal  control  involve,  among other things,  our judgment
with respect to the  relative  cost and  expected  benefits of specific  control
measures.  Additionally,  the Company  maintains an internal  auditing  function
which independently  evaluates the effectiveness of internal controls,  policies
and procedures and formally reports on the adequacy and effectiveness thereof.

     The Company's  consolidated  financial statements have been audited by KPMG
LLP, independent certified public accountants,  who have expressed their opinion
with respect to the fairness of the  consolidated  financial  statements.  Their
audit was conducted in accordance with generally  accepted  auditing  standards,
which  includes the  consideration  of the  Company's  internal  controls to the
extent necessary to form an independent  opinion on the  consolidated  financial
statements prepared by management.

     The Audit  Committee of the Board of  Directors is composed of  independent
directors who are not officers or employees of the Company.  The Committee meets
periodically  with  the  independent  certified  public  accountants,   internal
auditors  and  management.  The  Committee  considers  the  independence  of the
external auditors and the audit scope and discusses internal control,  financial
and reporting  matters.  Both the  independent  and internal  auditors have free
access to the Committee.

/s/  R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.
R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





                          Independent Auditors' Report


The Board of Directors
CenturyTel, Inc.:

     We have audited the consolidated  financial statements of CenturyTel,  Inc.
and subsidiaries as listed in Item 14a(i).  In connection with our audits of the
consolidated financial statements,  we also have audited the financial statement
schedules as listed in Item 14a(ii). These consolidated financial statements and
financial   statement   schedules  are  the   responsibility  of  the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States of America.  Those standards  require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management,  as well as evaluating  the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects,  the financial position of CenturyTel,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the  three-year  period
ended  December 31, 2000, in conformity  with  accounting  principles  generally
accepted  in the United  States of  America.  Also in our  opinion,  the related
financial  statement  schedules,  when  considered  in  relation  to  the  basic
consolidated  financial  statements  taken as a whole,  present  fairly,  in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/ KPMG LLP
KPMG LLP

Shreveport, Louisiana
January 26, 2001






                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                        Consolidated Statements of Income


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                                CenturyTel, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 2000

(1)    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Principles of  consolidation  - The  consolidated  financial  statements of
CenturyTel,  Inc. and its subsidiaries  (the "Company")  include the accounts of
CenturyTel,   Inc.  ("CenturyTel")  and  its  majority-owned   subsidiaries  and
partnerships.  The Company's regulated  telephone  operations are subject to the
provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 71,  "Accounting
for the  Effects  of  Certain  Types of  Regulation."  Investments  in  cellular
entities  where the Company does not own a majority  interest are  accounted for
using the equity method of accounting.

     Estimates - The  preparation  of financial  statements in  conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions  that affect the reported  amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates.

     Revenue  recognition  - Revenues are generally  recognized  and earned when
evidence of an arrangement exists,  service has been rendered, the selling price
is  determinable  and  collectibility  is  reasonably  assured.  Certain  of the
Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  participate in revenue sharing  arrangements
with other telephone companies for interstate revenue and for certain intrastate
revenue.  Such sharing  arrangements  are funded by toll revenue  and/or  access
charges  within  state  jurisdictions  and by access  charges in the  interstate
market.  Revenues earned through the various sharing  arrangements are initially
recorded based on the Company's estimates.

     Property,  plant and equipment - Telephone plant is stated substantially at
original  cost.  Normal  retirements  of  telephone  plant are  charged  against
accumulated depreciation, along with the costs of removal, less salvage, with no
gain or loss  recognized.  Renewals and  betterments  of plant and equipment are
capitalized  while repairs,  as well as renewals of minor items,  are charged to
operating  expense.  Depreciation of telephone plant is provided on the straight
line  method  using  class or  overall  group  rates  acceptable  to  regulatory
authorities; such rates range from 1.8% to 25%.

     Non-telephone  property is stated at cost and, when sold or retired, a gain
or loss is recognized. Depreciation of such property is provided on the straight
line method over estimated service lives ranging from three to 30 years.

     Long-lived  assets and excess cost of net assets acquired  (goodwill) - The
carrying value of long-lived assets,  including allocated goodwill,  is reviewed
for impairment at least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate  that such  carrying  value may not be  recoverable,  by assessing  the
recoverability of such carrying value through estimated  undiscounted future net
cash flows  expected to be  generated  by the assets or the  acquired  business.
Substantially all of the Company's goodwill is being amortized over 40 years.

     Affiliated  transactions  -  Certain  service  subsidiaries  of  CenturyTel
provide  installation  and  maintenance  services,  materials and supplies,  and
managerial,  operational,  technical,  accounting and administrative services to
subsidiaries.  In addition, CenturyTel provides and bills management services to
subsidiaries and in certain instances makes interest bearing advances to finance
construction  of plant  and  purchases  of  equipment.  These  transactions  are
recorded by the  Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  at their cost to the extent
permitted by regulatory  authorities.  Intercompany  profit on transactions with
regulated affiliates is limited to a reasonable return on investment and has not
been  eliminated in connection with  consolidating  the results of operations of
CenturyTel  and its  subsidiaries.  Intercompany  profit  on  transactions  with
nonregulated affiliates has been eliminated.

     Income taxes - CenturyTel  files a  consolidated  federal income tax return
with its eligible subsidiaries.  The Company uses the asset and liability method
of accounting for income taxes under which  deferred tax assets and  liabilities
are  established  for the future tax  consequences  attributable  to differences
between the financial  statement  carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and
their  respective tax bases.  Investment tax credits  related to telephone plant
have been deferred and are being  amortized as a reduction of federal income tax
expense  over the  estimated  useful  lives  of the  assets  giving  rise to the
credits.

     Derivative  financial  instruments  - The  Company  has  from  time to time
entered  into  interest  rate hedge  contracts in  anticipation  of certain debt
issuances  to  manage  interest  rate  exposure.  If a hedge  of an  anticipated
issuance is deemed effective under current accounting rules, net amounts paid or
received by the Company are reflected as  adjustments  to interest  expense over
the life of the debt  issuance.  If a hedge is deemed not to be effective,  such
amounts  paid or received  are  reflected in earnings in the period the hedge is
settled.  The Company had no  outstanding  interest  rate hedge  contracts as of
December 31, 2000. The Company does not utilize derivative financial instruments
for trading or other speculative purposes.

     Earnings per share - Basic earnings per share amounts are determined on the
basis of the weighted  average  number of common shares  outstanding  during the
year.  Diluted earnings per share gives effect to all potential  dilutive common
shares that were outstanding during the period.

     Stock  compensation - The Company accounts for employee stock  compensation
plans in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees," as allowed by Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."

     Cash  equivalents - The Company  considers  short-term  investments  with a
maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

     Reclassifications  - Certain  amounts  previously  reported for prior years
have been  reclassified  to conform with the 2000  presentation,  including  the
reclassification of the Company's Internet operations from the telephone segment
to other operations.

(2)    Acquisitions

       On July 31,  2000 and  September  29,  2000,  affiliates  of the  Company
acquired  over 490,000  telephone  access lines and related  assets from Verizon
Communications, Inc. (successor to GTE Corporation) ("Verizon") in four separate
transactions  for  approximately  $1.5  billion in cash.  The  Company  has made
preliminary estimates of the fair value and useful lives of Verizon's noncurrent
assets and liabilities.  Such estimates are subject to change upon completion of
the purchase price allocation. Under these transactions:

o      On July 31, 2000, the Company purchased  approximately  231,000 telephone
access  lines  and  related  local  exchange  assets  comprising  106  exchanges
throughout Arkansas for approximately $842 million in cash.

o      On July 31, 2000, Spectra Communications Group, LLC ("Spectra") purchased
approximately  127,000  telephone access lines and related local exchange assets
comprising  107 exchanges  throughout  Missouri for  approximately  $297 million
cash.  As of December 31, 2000,  the Company  owned 57.1% of Spectra,  which was
organized to acquire and operate  these  Missouri  properties.  At closing,  the
Company  made a preferred  equity  investment  in Spectra of  approximately  $55
million and financed substantially all of the remainder of the purchase price.

o      On  September  29,  2000,  the  Company  purchased  approximately  70,500
telephone access lines and related local exchange assets comprising 42 exchanges
throughout Wisconsin for approximately $197 million in cash.

o      On  September  29,  2000,  Telephone  USA of  Wisconsin,  LLC  ("TelUSA")
purchased approximately 62,900 telephone access lines and related local exchange
assets  comprising  35 exchanges  throughout  Wisconsin for  approximately  $172
million in cash. The Company owns 89% of TelUSA,  which was organized to acquire
and own these  Wisconsin  properties.  At closing,  the  Company  made an equity
investment in TelUSA of approximately  $37.8 million and financed  substantially
all of the remainder of the purchase price.

     The  purchase  prices   discussed   above  reflect   various   post-closing
adjustments  made to date.  Any  remaining  adjustments  are not  expected to be
material.

     To finance these  acquisitions on a short-term  basis, the Company borrowed
$1.157  billion  on a  floating-rate  basis  under its new $1.5  billion  credit
facility with Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank,  N.A., as lenders, and Banc of
America Securities LLC and Salomon Smith Barney Inc., as arrangers, and borrowed
$300 million on a  floating-rate  basis under its existing  credit facility with
Bank of America, N.A.

     On October 19,  2000,  the Company  issued  $500  million of 8.375%  Senior
Notes,  Series H, due 2010, and $400 million of 7.75% Remarketable Senior Notes,
Series I, due 2012 (with a remarketing  date of October 15, 2002) under its $2.0
billion  shelf  registration  statement  filed in May 2000.  The net proceeds of
approximately  $908 million  (excluding the Company's  payments of approximately
$12.3 million  associated with related interest rate hedging) were used to repay
a portion of the $1.457 billion of aggregate  indebtedness  the Company incurred
under its credit facilities in connection with the Verizon acquisitions.

     The following pro forma information  represents the consolidated results of
operations of the Company as if the Verizon acquisitions had been consummated as
of January 1, 2000 and 1999.



     The pro forma  information is not  necessarily  indicative of the operating
results  that  would  have  occurred  if  the  Verizon   acquisitions  had  been
consummated  as of January 1 of each  respective  period,  nor is it necessarily
indicative of future operating results.  The pro forma information does not give
effect  to any  potential  revenue  enhancements  or  cost  synergies  or  other
operating  efficiencies  that could  result  from the  acquisitions.  The actual
results of  operations of the Verizon  properties  are included in the Company's
consolidated financial statements only from the date of acquisition.

     On  December  1, 1998,  the Company  acquired  the assets of certain  local
telephone  and directory  operations in parts of northern and central  Wisconsin
from  affiliates  of  Ameritech  Corporation  ("Ameritech"),   in  exchange  for
approximately  $221  million  cash.  The assets  included  (i) access  lines and
related  property  and  equipment  in  21  predominantly  rural  communities  in
Wisconsin and (ii) Ameritech's  directory  publishing  operations that relate to
nine telephone directories.


(3)    Investments in Unconsolidated Cellular Entities

     The Company's share of earnings from cellular entities in which it does not
own a majority  interest was $28.1  million,  $28.8 million and $34.1 million in
2000, 1999 and 1998,  respectively,  and is included,  net of $1.1 million, $1.1
million  and $1.2  million of  amortization  of  goodwill  attributable  to such
investments,  in "Income from unconsolidated cellular entities" in the Company's
Consolidated   Statements   of  Income.   Over  73%  of  the  2000  income  from
unconsolidated cellular entities was attributable to the following investments.



     Based  primarily  on data  furnished to the Company by third  parties,  the
following summarizes the unaudited combined assets,  liabilities and equity, and
the unaudited combined results of operations,  of the cellular entities in which
the Company's  investments (as of December 31, 2000 and 1999) were accounted for
by the equity method.





     At December 31, 2000, $56.7 million of the Company's  consolidated retained
earnings represented undistributed earnings of unconsolidated cellular entities.

(4)    Property, Plant and Equipment

     Net  property,  plant  and  equipment  at  December  31,  2000 and 1999 was
composed of the following:



     Depreciation expense was $328.0 million,  $296.8 million and $280.5 million
in 2000,  1999 and  1998,  respectively.  The  composite  depreciation  rate for
telephone properties was 7.2% for 2000, 7.0% for 1999 and 6.9% for 1998.

(5)    Long-term and Short-term Debt

     The  Company's  long-term  debt as of  December  31,  2000  and  1999 is as
follows:

* weighted average interest rate at December 31, 2000

     The  approximate  annual debt  maturities for the five years  subsequent to
December 31, 2000 are as follows:  2001 - $150.0 million;  2002 - $960.2 million
(assuming  the  Company's  Series I notes are  redeemed by the Company in 2002);
2003 - $68.9 million; 2004 - $72.1 million; and 2005 - $245.9 million.

     Short-term borrowings of $40.0 million at December 31, 1999 were classified
as long-term  debt on the  accompanying  balance  sheets because the Company had
adequate  committed  borrowing  capacity  available  under  long-term  revolving
facilities.

     Certain of the loan agreements of CenturyTel and its  subsidiaries  contain
various  restrictions,   among  which  are  limitations  regarding  issuance  of
additional debt,  payment of cash dividends,  reacquisition of capital stock and
other  matters.  In addition,  the  transfer of funds from certain  consolidated
subsidiaries   to  CenturyTel   is   restricted  by  various  loan   agreements.
Subsidiaries which have loans from government  agencies and cooperative  lending
associations,  or have issued first  mortgage  bonds,  generally may not loan or
advance any funds to  CenturyTel,  but may pay  dividends  if certain  financial
ratios are met. At December 31, 2000, restricted net assets of subsidiaries were
$638.7 million.  Subsidiaries' retained earnings in excess of amounts restricted
by debt  covenants  totaled  $1.6  billion.  At December  31,  2000,  all of the
consolidated  retained  earnings  reflected on the balance  sheet was  available
under CenturyTel's loan agreements for the declaration of dividends.

     Most of the Company's telephone property, plant and equipment is pledged to
secure the long-term debt of subsidiaries.

     During 2000, the Company  borrowed $1.157 billion on a floating-rate  basis
under its new 364-day,  $1.5 billion credit facility with Bank of America,  N.A.
and Citibank,  N.A., as lenders,  and Banc of America Securities LLC and Salomon
Smith Barney Inc.,  as arrangers,  and borrowed $300 million on a  floating-rate
basis under its existing $300 million credit facility with Bank of America, N.A.
The  proceeds  were  utilized  to finance a  substantial  portion of the Verizon
acquisition on a short-term basis. See Note 2 for additional information.

     On October 19,  2000,  the Company  issued  $500  million of 8.375%  Senior
Notes,  Series H, due 2010, and $400 million of 7.75% Remarketable Senior Notes,
Series I, due 2012 (with a remarketing  date of October 15, 2002) under its $2.0
billion shelf registration  statement filed in May 2000. The Series I notes will
bear  interest at the rate of 7.75% per year through  October 15, 2002 (which is
the  first  remarketing  date),  and then at a fixed or  floating  rate.  On the
remarketing  date,  the Series I notes will be purchased  and  remarketed by the
Company's  remarketing  dealer or mandatorily  redeemed by the Company.  The net
proceeds from the sale of the Series H and I notes of approximately $908 million
(including the payment made to the Company for the remarketing option granted to
the remarketing  dealer,  but excluding the Company's  payments  associated with
related  interest  rate  hedging)  were  used to repay a portion  of the  $1.457
billion  of  aggregate  indebtedness  the  Company  incurred  under  its  credit
facilities in connection with the Verizon acquisition.

     Subsequent to the issuance of permanent  financing,  the  committed  amount
under the Company's  364-day,  $1.5 billion credit  facility was reduced to $500
million  in  accordance  with  its  terms.  The  Company  also  has  outstanding
indebtedness under other short-term  revolving credit facilities and through its
newly initiated  commercial paper program.  The total amount  outstanding  under
these short-term  facilities aggregated $276.0 million at December 31, 2000. The
weighted average interest rate of the Company's  short-term debt at December 31,
2000 was 7.3%.

     At December 31, 2000, CenturyTel's telephone subsidiaries had approximately
$129.5 million in commitments  for long-term  financing from the Rural Utilities
Service available and approximately $400.1 million of additional borrowings were
available to the Company through committed lines of credit with various banks.

(6)    Postretirement Benefits

     The Company sponsors health care plans that provide postretirement benefits
to all qualified retired employees.

     The following is a reconciliation  for the benefit  obligation and the plan
assets.



     Net periodic  postretirement  benefit cost for 2000, 1999 and 1998 included
the following components:



     The following  table sets forth the amounts  recognized as liabilities  for
postretirement benefits at December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.



     Assumptions used in accounting for  postretirement  benefits as of December
31, 2000 and 1999 were:



     For  measurement  purposes,  a 6.8%  annual  rate in the per capita cost of
covered   health  care   benefits   was   assumed   for  2001  and   beyond.   A
one-percentage-point  change in assumed  health  care cost rates  would have the
following effects:



(7)    Investments and Other Assets

     Investments and other assets at December 31, 2000 and 1999 were composed of
the following:



     Amortization  of goodwill and other  intangibles  of $60.1  million,  $52.0
million and $47.8 million for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively,  is included in
"Depreciation  and  amortization"  in the Company's  Consolidated  Statements of
Income.

     The Company's investments in marketable equity securities are classified as
available for sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized  holding gains
and losses  reported,  net of taxes,  as a separate  component of  stockholders'
equity.  Gross  unrealized  holding  gains of the  Company's  marketable  equity
securities  were $39.2  million as of December 31, 2000 and $99.0  million as of
December 31, 1999.

(8)    Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities

     Deferred  credits and other  liabilities at December 31, 2000 and 1999 were
composed of the following:



(9)    Stockholders' Equity

     Common stock - At December 31, 2000,  unissued shares of CenturyTel  common
stock were reserved as follows:



     Under  CenturyTel's  Articles of  Incorporation  each share of common stock
beneficially  owned continuously by the same person since May 30, 1987 generally
entitles the holder thereof to ten votes per share. All other shares entitle the
holder to one vote per share.  At December 31, 2000, the holders of 10.6 million
shares of common stock were entitled to ten votes per share.

Preferred stock - As of December 31, 2000,  CenturyTel had 2.0 million shares of
convertible  preferred stock, $25 par value per share,  authorized.  At December
31, 2000 and 1999,  there were 319,000  shares of outstanding  preferred  stock.
Holders  of  outstanding  CenturyTel  preferred  stock are  entitled  to receive
cumulative dividends,  receive preferential distributions equal to $25 per share
plus unpaid dividends upon  CenturyTel's  liquidation and vote as a single class
with the holders of common stock.

Shareholders'  Rights Plan - In 1996 the Board of Directors  declared a dividend
of one preference share purchase right for each common share  outstanding.  Such
rights become  exercisable if and when a potential  acquiror takes certain steps
to acquire 15% or more of CenturyTel's common stock. Upon the occurrence of such
an acquisition,  each right held by shareholders  other than the acquiror may be
exercised to receive  that number of shares of common stock or other  securities
of CenturyTel (or, in certain  situations,  the acquiring  company) which at the
time of such  transaction  will have a market  value of two  times the  exercise
price of the right.

Stock split - On February 23, 1999,  CenturyTel's  Board of Directors declared a
three-for-two common stock split effected as a 50% stock dividend in March 1999.
All per share data  included in this report for periods prior to March 1999 have
been  restated to reflect this stock split.  An amount equal to the par value of
the additional common shares issued pursuant to the stock split was reflected as
a transfer from paid-in  capital to common stock in the  consolidated  financial
statements for 1998.

(10)   Stock Option Program

     CenturyTel has a 2000 incentive compensation program which allows the Board
of Directors, through the Compensation Committee, to grant incentives to certain
employees in any one or a combination of several forms,  including incentive and
non-qualified stock options;  stock appreciation  rights;  restricted stock; and
performance  shares.  As of December 31,  2000,  CenturyTel  had  reserved  10.0
million  shares of common stock which may be issued under  CenturyTel's  current
and predecessor incentive compensation programs.

     Under the Company's  programs,  options have been granted to employees at a
price either equal to or exceeding the  then-current  market  price.  All of the
options  expire ten years after the date of grant and the vesting  period ranges
from immediate to three years.

     During 2000 the Company granted  1,565,750  options (the "2000 Options") at
market  price.  The weighted  average fair value of each of the 2000 Options was
estimated  as of the date of grant to be $12.46  using an  option-pricing  model
with the following assumptions: dividend yield - .5%; expected volatility - 25%;
risk-free interest rate - 5.3%; and expected option life - seven years.

     During 1999 the Company  granted  83,743  options  (the "1999  Options") at
market  price.  The weighted  average fair value of each of the 1999 Options was
estimated  as of the date of grant to be $15.90  using an  option-pricing  model
with the following assumptions: dividend yield - .4%; expected volatility - 20%;
risk-free interest rate - 6.6%; and expected option life - seven years.

     During 1998 the Company  granted  121,667  options (the "1998  Options") at
market  price.  The weighted  average fair value of each of the 1998 Options was
estimated as of the date of grant to be $8.88 using an option-pricing model with
the following  assumptions:  dividend  yield - .5%;  expected  volatility - 20%;
risk-free interest rate - 4.8%; and expected option life - seven years.

     Stock option transactions during 2000, 1999 and 1998 were as follows:



     The following tables summarize certain information about CenturyTel's stock
options at December 31, 2000.





     The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees," in accounting for its program.  Accordingly, the
Company has not recognized  compensation  cost in connection  with issuing stock
options.  If  compensation  cost for  CenturyTel's  options had been  determined
consistent  with SFAS 123, the  Company's net income and earnings per share on a
pro forma basis for 2000, 1999 and 1998 would have been as follows:




(11)   Accounting for the Effects of Regulation

     The Company's regulated telephone  operations are subject to the provisions
of Statement of Financial Accounting  Standards No. 71 ("SFAS 71"),  "Accounting
for the  Effects of Certain  Types of  Regulation."  Actions of  regulators  can
provide reasonable  assurance of the existence of an asset,  reduce or eliminate
the value of an asset and impose a  liability  on a regulated  enterprise.  Such
regulatory assets and liabilities are required to be recorded and,  accordingly,
reflected in the balance sheet of an entity subject to SFAS 71.

     The Company's  consolidated  balance sheet as of December 31, 2000 included
regulatory assets of approximately $735.4 million and regulatory  liabilities of
approximately  $4.8 million.  The $735.4 million of regulatory  assets  included
amounts related to accumulated depreciation ($732.1 million), assets established
in connection with postretirement  benefits  ($345,000),  income taxes ($38,000)
and deferred  financing  costs ($2.9  million).  The $4.8 million of  regulatory
liabilities  was  established  in  connection  with the adoption of Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 109,  "Accounting  For Income  Taxes." Net
deferred income tax liabilities related to the regulatory assets and liabilities
quantified above were $294.6 million.

     Property,   plant  and  equipment  of  the  Company's  regulated  telephone
operations has been  depreciated  using  generally the straight line method over
lives approved by regulators. Such depreciable lives have generally exceeded the
depreciable lives used by nonregulated entities. In addition, in accordance with
regulatory  accounting,  retirements of regulated  telephone  property have been
charged  to  accumulated  depreciation,  along with the costs of  removal,  less
salvage,  with no  gain  or loss  recognized.  These  accounting  policies  have
resulted  in  accumulated  depreciation  being  significantly  less  than if the
Company's telephone operations had not been regulated.

     Statement  of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  101  ("SFAS  101"),
"Regulated  Enterprises - Accounting  for the  Discontinuance  of Application of
FASB  Statement No. 71,"  specifies the  accounting  required when an enterprise
ceases to meet the  criteria for  application  of SFAS 71. SFAS 101 requires the
elimination  of  the  effects  of any  actions  of  regulators  that  have  been
recognized as assets and  liabilities  in accordance  with SFAS 71 but would not
have been  recognized as assets and  liabilities by  non-regulated  enterprises,
along with an adjustment of certain accumulated depreciation accounts to reflect
the difference between recorded depreciation and the amount of depreciation that
would have been recorded had the Company's telephone operations not been subject
to rate  regulation.  SFAS 101 further  provides  that the  carrying  amounts of
property,  plant and  equipment are to be adjusted only to the extent the assets
are  impaired  and that  impairment  shall be judged  in the same  manner as for
non-regulated enterprises.  Deferred tax liabilities and deferred investment tax
credits will be impacted  based on the change in the temporary  differences  for
property, plant and equipment and accumulated depreciation.

     The  Company is  monitoring  the  ongoing  applicability  of SFAS 71 to its
regulated telephone operations due to the changing  regulatory,  competitive and
legislative  environments,  and  it is  possible  that  changes  in  regulation,
legislation or  competition or in the demand for regulated  services or products
could result in the  Company's  telephone  operations no longer being subject to
SFAS 71 in the near  future.  When the  regulated  operations  of the Company no
longer qualify for the application of SFAS 71, the net adjustments required will
result in a material,  noncash charge against earnings which will be reported as
an  extraordinary  item.  While the  effect of  implementing  SFAS 101 cannot be
precisely  estimated  at  this  time,  management  believes  that  the  noncash,
after-tax,  extraordinary charge would be between $400 million and $450 million.
For regulatory purposes, the accounting and reporting of the Company's telephone
subsidiaries will not be affected by the discontinued application of SFAS 71.

(12)   Sale or Exchange of Assets

     In  the  first  quarter  of  2000  the  Company  recorded  a  pre-tax  gain
aggregating  $9.9  million  ($5.2  million  after  tax)  due to the  sale of its
remaining Alaska cellular operations.

     In  the  third  quarter  of  2000  the  Company  recorded  a  pre-tax  gain
aggregating  $10.7  million  ($6.4  million  after  tax)  due to the sale of its
minority interest in a non-strategic cellular partnership.

     In  the  first  quarter  of  1999  the  Company  recorded  a  pre-tax  gain
aggregating  $10.4  million  ($6.7  million  after  tax)  due to the sale of its
remaining common shares of MCIWorldCom, Inc. ("WorldCom").

     In May  1999,  the  Company  sold  substantially  all  of its  Alaska-based
operations  that were acquired in the  acquisition of Pacific  Telecom,  Inc. on
December 1, 1997. The Company received  approximately  $300 million in after-tax
cash as a result of the transaction.  In accordance with purchase accounting, no
gain or loss was recorded upon the disposition of these properties.

     In June 1999,  the Company  sold the assets of its cellular  operations  in
Brownsville and McAllen, Texas for approximately $96 million cash. In connection
therewith,  the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately  $39.6 million,
and an after-tax loss of approximately $7.8 million.

     In the  fourth  quarter  of  1999  the  Company  recorded  a  pre-tax  gain
aggregating  $11.6  million  ($7.6  million  after  tax)  due to the sale of its
Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. common stock.

     In  connection  with the first  quarter  1998  acquisition  of Brooks Fiber
Properties, Inc. ("Brooks") by WorldCom, the Company's 551,000 shares of Brooks'
common stock were  converted into  approximately  1.0 million shares of WorldCom
common stock.  The Company recorded such conversion at fair value which resulted
in a pre-tax gain of  approximately  $22.8 million ($14.8 million after tax). In
the second quarter of 1998,  the Company sold 750,000 shares of WorldCom  common
stock for $35.6  million cash and recorded a pre-tax gain of $8.7 million  ($5.7
million after tax).

     In the second quarter of 1998,  the Company sold its minority  interests in
two non-strategic  cellular entities for approximately  $31.0 million cash which
resulted  in a  pre-tax  gain  of  $21.8  million  ($12.3  million  after  tax).
Additionally,  in  the  second  quarter  the  Company  wrote  off  its  minority
investment in a start-up company.

(13)   Earnings Per Share

     The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the
basic and diluted earnings per share computations:



     The weighted  average number of options to purchase  shares of common stock
that were excluded from the  computation  of diluted  earnings per share because
the exercise  price of the option was greater  than the average  market price of
the  common  stock was  969,000,  20,000  and  3,000  for  2000,  1999 and 1998,
respectively.

(14)   Income Taxes

     The tax  effects of  temporary  differences  that gave rise to  significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31,
2000 and 1999 were as follows:



     The following is a  reconciliation  from the statutory  federal  income tax
rate to the Company's effective income tax rate:



     Income tax expense  included in the  Consolidated  Statements of Income for
the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was as follows:



     Income tax expense was allocated as follows:



(15)   Retirement and Savings Plans

     CenturyTel and certain  subsidiaries  sponsor defined benefit pension plans
for substantially all employees.  CenturyTel also sponsors an Outside Directors'
Retirement  Plan  and  a  Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Plan  to  provide
directors and officers,  respectively,  with supplemental retirement,  death and
disability benefits.

     The following is a reconciliation  of the beginning and ending balances for
the benefit obligation and the plan assets for the retirement and savings plans.



     Net periodic pension benefit for 2000, 1999 and 1998 included the following
components:



       The  following  table sets forth the combined  plans'  funded  status and
amounts recognized in the Company's  consolidated  balance sheet at December 31,
2000, 1999 and 1998.



     Assumptions  used in  accounting  for the pension plans as of December 2000
and 1999 were:



     CenturyTel  sponsors an Employee  Stock Bonus Plan ("ESBP") and an Employee
Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP"). These plans cover most employees with one year of
service  with the  Company  and are funded by Company  contributions  determined
annually by the Board of Directors.

     The Company contributed $6.0 million,  $5.2 million and $3.7 million to the
ESBP during 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  The Company's expense related to
the ESOP during 2000,  1999 and 1998 was $3.5 million,  $4.4  million,  and $4.4
million,  respectively.  At December  31,  2000,  the ESBP and the ESOP owned an
aggregate of 8.6 million shares of CenturyTel common stock.

     CenturyTel and certain  subsidiaries  also sponsor qualified profit sharing
plans  pursuant to Section  401(k) of the  Internal  Revenue  Code (the  "401(k)
Plans") which are available to substantially  all employees of the Company.  The
Company's matching  contributions to the 401(k) Plans were $6.1 million in 2000,
$6.1 million in 1999 and $8.5 million in 1998.

(16)   Supplemental Cash Flow Disclosures

     The Company paid interest,  net of amounts capitalized,  of $164.0 million,
$148.3  million and $150.8  million  during 2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively.
Income taxes paid were $142.3 million in 2000, $270.9 million in 1999 and $185.9
million in 1998.

     CenturyTel  has  consummated  the  acquisitions  of various  telephone  and
cellular  operations,  along with certain other  assets,  during the three years
ended December 31, 2000. In connection  with these  acquisitions,  the following
assets were acquired and liabilities assumed:



     CenturyTel has disposed of various telephone and cellular operations, along
with certain  other assets,  during the three years ended  December 31, 2000. In
connection with these dispositions,  the following assets were sold, liabilities
eliminated, assets received and gain recognized:




(17)   Fair Value of Financial Instruments

       The following  table  presents the carrying  amounts and  estimated  fair
values of certain of the Company's  financial  instruments  at December 31, 2000
and 1999.



(1)  Fair value was based on quoted market prices.
(2)  Fair value was estimated by discounting the scheduled payment streams to
     present value based upon rates currently offered to the Company for
     similar debt.
(3)  Fair value was estimated by the Company to approximate carrying value.
(4)  The carrying amount of cash and cash  equivalents,  accounts  receivable,
     short-term debt,  accounts payable and accrued expenses approximates the
     fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

(18)   Business Segments

     The  Company has two  reportable  segments:  telephone  and  wireless.  The
Company's  reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different
products and services. The operating income of these segments is reviewed by the
chief  operating   decision  maker  to  assess  performance  and  make  business
decisions.

     The Company's  telephone  operations  are conducted in rural,  suburban and
small  urban  communities  in 21  states.  Approximately  87% of  the  Company's
telephone  access  lines  are  in  Wisconsin,  Arkansas,  Washington,  Missouri,
Michigan, Louisiana, Colorado, Ohio and Oregon. The Company's wireless customers
are located in Michigan, Louisiana, Wisconsin, Mississippi, Texas, and Arkansas.



     Other  accounts  receivable  are  primarily  amounts due from  various long
distance carriers,  principally AT&T, and several large local exchange operating
companies.

(19)   Commitments and Contingencies

     Construction  expenditures  and  investments  in  vehicles,  buildings  and
equipment during 2001 are estimated to be $400 million for telephone operations,
$70 million for wireless operations and $80 million for other operations.

     The Company is involved in various claims and legal actions  arising in the
ordinary  course  of  business.  In the  opinion  of  management,  the  ultimate
disposition  of these  matters  will not have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.


                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                    Consolidated Quarterly Income Information
                                   (Unaudited)


     Diluted  earnings  per  share for the  first  and  third  quarters  of 2000
included $.04 and $.05 per share,  respectively,  of gain on sale of assets. See
Note 12 for  additional  information.  On July 31, 2000 and  September 29, 2000,
affiliates  of the Company  acquired  over  490,000  telephone  access lines and
related assets from Verizon. See Note 2 for additional information.

     Diluted earnings per share for the first, second, third and fourth quarters
of 1999 included $.04,  ($.05),  $.01 and $.05 per share,  respectively,  of net
gain (loss) on sale of assets. See Note 12 for additional information.


Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
              and Financial Disclosure.

      None.

                                    PART III

Item 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     The name,  age and  office(s)  held by each of the  Registrant's  executive
officers are shown below. Each of the executive  officers listed below serves at
the pleasure of the Board of Directors, except Mr. Williams who has entered into
an employment  agreement with the Registrant.  The agreement's  initial term has
lapsed,  but the agreement  remains in effect from year to year,  subject to the
right of Mr. Williams or the Company to terminate such agreement.


Name                             Age             Office(s) held with CenturyTel
- ----                             ---             ------------------------------

Clarke M. Williams               79              Chairman of the Board
                                                  of Directors

Glen F. Post, III                48              Vice Chairman of the Board of
                                                  Directors, President and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer

Karen A. Puckett                 40              Executive Vice President and
                                                  Chief Operating Officer

R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.            49              Executive Vice President and
                                                  Chief Financial Officer

Harvey P. Perry                  56              Executive Vice President,
                                                  Chief Administrative Officer,
                                                  General Counsel and Secretary

David D. Cole                    43              Senior Vice President -
                                                  Operations Support

Michael Maslowski                53              Senior Vice President and
                                                  Chief Information Officer

     Each of the Registrant's executive officers, except for Ms. Puckett and Mr.
Maslowski,  has served as an officer  of the  Registrant  and one or more of its
subsidiaries in varying  capacities for more than the past five years.  Mr. Cole
has served as Senior Vice  President - Operational  Support since November 1998,
as  President - Wireless  Group from  October  1996 to October  1998 and as Vice
President from 1990 to 1996.  Mr.  Maslowski has served as Senior Vice President
and Chief Information Officer since March 1999 and as Senior Information Systems
Executive  for  Lucent  Technologies  and for a  joint  venture  between  Lucent
Technologies and Phillips Consumer  Communications  from 1996 to early 1999. Ms.
Puckett has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since
July 2000, as Sales and Marketing  Senior Officer of BroadStream  Communications
from July 1999 to July 2000 and as Texas Region  President for GTE Wireless from
1996 to mid-1999.

     Commco  Technology  LLC  (formerly  BroadStream  Communications)  filed for
bankruptcy on December 18, 2000 in the United States Bankruptcy Court,  District
of  Connecticut  (Bridgeport).  Ms.  Puckett  was an  officer  and  employee  of
BroadStream Communications from July 1999 through July 2000.

     The  balance of the  information  required  by Item 10 is  incorporated  by
reference to the Registrant's  definitive  proxy statement  relating to its 2001
annual meeting of stockholders  (the "Proxy  Statement"),  which Proxy Statement
will be filed  pursuant to  Regulation  14A within 120 days after the end of the
last fiscal year.

Item 11.      Executive Compensation.

     The  information  required by Item 11 is  incorporated  by reference to the
Proxy Statement.

Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

     The  information  required by Item 12 is  incorporated  by reference to the
Proxy Statement.

Item 13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

     The  information  required by Item 13 is  incorporated  by reference to the
Proxy Statement.


                                     PART IV

Item 14.      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

          a.  Financial Statements

              (i)   Consolidated Financial Statements:

                       Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated Financial
                          Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

                       Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
                          December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

                       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the
                          years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

                       Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2000 and 1999

                       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
                          ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

                       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the
                          years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

                       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       Consolidated Quarterly Income Information (unaudited)

              (ii)  Schedules:*

                       I    Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                       II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                       *    Those schedules not listed above are
                             omitted as not applicable or not required.

          b.  Reports on Form 8-K.

              The following items were reported in a Form 8-K filed October
              5, 2000.

                  Item 2.  Acquisition of properties in Wisconsin from Verizon.

                  Item 5.  Expected Third Quarter 2000 operating results and
                           updated long-term debt ratings.
                  Item 7.  Historical and pro forma financial information
                           related to Verizon acquisitions.

              The following  item was reported in a Form 8-K filed November
              13, 2000.

                  Item 5.  News release  announcing  third quarter results
                           of operations.

          c.   Exhibits:
                3(i)    Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
                        Registrant,    dated   as   of   May   6,   1999,
                        (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  3(i) to
                        Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for
                        the quarter ended June 30, 1999).

                3(ii)   Registrant's  Bylaws, as amended through November
                        18, 1999  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
                        3(ii) to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                        for the year ended December 31, 1999).

                4.1     Note Purchase Agreement, dated September 1, 1989,
                        between   Registrant,   Teachers   Insurance  and
                        Annuity  Association  of America  and the Lincoln
                        National Life Insurance Company  (incorporated by
                        reference   to  Exhibit   4.23  to   Registrant's
                        Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                        ended September 30, 1989).

                4.2     Rights  Agreement,  dated as of August 27,  1996,
                        between  Registrant and Society National Bank, as
                        Rights  Agent,   including  the  form  of  Rights
                        Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                        1 of  Registrant's  Current  Report  on Form  8-K
                        filed  August  30,  1996)  and   Amendment   No.1
                        thereto,  dated  May 25,  1999  (incorporated  by
                        reference  to  Exhibit  4.2(ii)  to  Registrant's
                        Report  on  Form  8-K  dated  May 25,  1999)  and
                        Amendment  No. 2 thereto,  dated and effective as
                        of June 30, 2000,  by and between the  Registrant
                        and  Computershare  Investor  Services,  LLC,  as
                        rights  agent   (incorporated   by  reference  to
                        Exhibit 4.1 of Registrant's  Quarterly  report on
                        10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000).

                4.3     Form of common stock certificate of the Registrant,
                        included elsewhere herein.

                4.4     Instruments relating to the Company's public senior debt

                        (a)   Indenture   dated  as  of  March  31,  1994
                              between  the   Company  and  Regions   Bank
                              (formerly  First  American  Bank & Trust of
                              Louisiana),  as  Trustee  (incorporated  by
                              reference  to Exhibit 4.1 of the  Company's
                              Registration   Statement   on   Form   S-3,
                              Registration No. 33-52915).

                        (b)   Resolutions designating the terms and conditions
                              of the Company's 7-3/4% Senior Notes, Series A,
                              due 2004 and 8-1/4% Senior  Notes,  Series  B, due
                              2024 (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.1
                              to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                              10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994).

                        (c)   Resolutions   designating   the  terms  and
                              conditions  of the  Company's  6.55% Senior
                              Notes,  Series C, due 2005 and 7.2%  Senior
                              Notes,  Series D, due 2025 (incorporated by
                              reference to Exhibit  4.27 to  Registrant's
                              Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  for the year
                              ended December 31, 1995).

                        (d)   Resolutions   designating   the  terms  and
                              conditions  of the  Company's  6.15% Senior
                              Notes,  Series  E, due 2005;  6.30%  Senior
                              Notes,  Series  F,  due  2008;  and  6.875%
                              Debentures,    Series    G,    due    2028,
                              (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.9
                              to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                              for the year ended December 31, 1997).

                        (e)   Form of  Registrant's  8.375% Senior Notes,
                              Series H, Due 2010, issued October 19, 2000
                              (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.2
                              of  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                              10-Q for the Quarter  ended  September  30,
                              2000).

                        (f)   Form    of    the    Registrant's    7.750%
                              Remarketable  Senior  Notes,  Series I, due
                              2012,   issued   October   19,   2000  (the
                              "Remarketable   Notes")   (incorporated  by
                              reference  to Exhibit  4.3 of  Registrant's
                              Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
                              quarter ended September 30, 2000).

                        (g)   Remarketing Agreement,  dated as of October
                              19, 2000,  between the  Registrant and Banc
                              of America  Securities  LLC, as remarketing
                              agent    for   the    Remarketable    Notes
                              (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.4
                              of  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                              10-Q for the quarter  ended  September  30,
                              2000).

                4.5     Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility
                        Agreement,  dated as of August  28,  1997,  among
                        Registrant,   the  lenders  named  therein,   and
                        NationsBank  of  Texas,  N.A.   (incorporated  by
                        reference   to   Exhibit   4.1  to   Registrant's
                        Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                        ended September 30, 1997).

                4.6     Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated July 31,
                        2000, among Registrant, Bank of America, N.A.,
                        Citibank, N.A., Banc of America Securities, LLC and
                        Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. (incorporated by reference
                        to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                        July 31, 2000).

                4.7     First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 2,
                        1998, to Indenture between CenturyTel of the Northwest,
                        Inc. and The First National Bank of Chicago (incor-
                        porated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's
                        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                        September 30, 1998).

                10.1    Qualified Employee Benefit Plans

                        (a)   Registrant's Employee Stock Ownership Plan and
                              Trust, as amended and restated December 30, 1994
                              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                              quarter ended March 31, 1995), amendment thereto
                              dated January 26, 1996 (incorporated by reference
                              to Exhibit 10.1(a) to Registrant's Annual Report
                              on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                              1995), amendment thereto dated July 15, 1996
                              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                              the quarter ended June 30,1996), amendment thereto
                              dated December 31, 1996 (incorporated by reference
                              to Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant's Quarterly Report
                              on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                              1997), amendment thereto dated March 18, 1997
                              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                              quarter ended March 31, 1997), amendments thereto
                              dated January 1, 1997 (incorporated by reference
                              to Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's Quarterly Report
                              on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997),
                              and amendment thereto dated December 29, 1998
                              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                              (a) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                              for the year ended December 31, 1998).

                        (b)   Registrant's Stock Bonus Plan, PAYSOP and Trust,
                              as amended and restated December 30, 1994
                              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                              the quarter ended March 31, 1995), amendment
                              thereto dated July 11, 1995 (incorporated by
                              reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's
                              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                              ended June 30, 1995), amendment thereto dated
                              January 26, 1996 (incorporated by reference to
                              Exhibit 10.1(b) to Registrant's Annual Report on
                              Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995),
                              amendment thereto dated July 15, 1996(incorporated
                              by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's
                              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                              ended June 30, 1996), and amendment thereto dated
                              December 31, 1996 (incorporated by reference to
                              Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                              Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997),
                              amendments thereto dated January 1, 1997
                              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
                              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                              quarter  ended June  30, 1997), and  amendment
                              thereto dated December 29, 1998 (incorporated by
                              reference to Exhibit 10.1(b) to Registrant's
                              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                              December 31, 1998).

                        (c)   Registrant's   Dollars  &  Sense  Plan  and
                              Trust,  as amended and restated,  effective
                              January 1, 1998 and amendment thereto dated
                              December   29,   1998    (incorporated   by
                              reference    to   Exhibit   10.1   (c)   to
                              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                              the year ended December 31, 1998).

                        (d)   Registrant's Amended and Restated Retirement
                              Plan, effective as of January 1, 1999  (incor-
                              porated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 (z) to
                              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                              year ended December 31, 1998).

                10.2    Stock-based Incentive Plans

                        (a)  Registrant's  1983  Restricted  Stock Plan,
                             dated  February  21,  1984,  as amended and
                             restated   as   of   November    16,   1995
                             (incorporated   by   reference  to  Exhibit
                             10.1(e) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                             Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                             1995) and amendment  thereto dated November
                             21,  1996,  (incorporated  by  reference to
                             Exhibit  10.1(e)  to  Registrant's   Annual
                             Report  on Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                             December 31, 1996),  and amendment  thereto
                             dated  February 25, 1997  (incorporated  by
                             reference to Exhibit  10.3 to  Registrant's
                             Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
                             quarter ended March 31, 1997).

                        (b)  Registrant's  1988  Incentive  Compensation
                             Program as amended and restated  August 22,
                             1989  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                             19.8 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on
                             Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  September
                             30,  1989)  and  amendment   thereto  dated
                             November   21,   1996    (incorporated   by
                             reference    to    Exhibit    10.1(g)    to
                             Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                             the year ended December 31, 1996).

                        (c)  Registrant's  1990  Incentive  Compensation
                             Program, dated March 15, 1990 (incorporated
                             by    reference    to   Exhibit   19.1   to
                             Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                             for the  quarter  ended June 30,  1990) and
                             amendment  thereto dated  November 21, 1996
                             (incorporated   by   reference  to  Exhibit
                             10.1(i) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                             Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                             1996).

                             (i) Form of Stock Option Agreement  entered
                             into in 1992 by the Registrant, pursuant to
                             1990 Incentive  Compensation  Program, with
                             certain  of  its  officers  and   employees
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17
                             to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                             for the year ended  December  31, 1992) and
                             amendment  thereto dated as of May 22, 1995
                             (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.2
                             to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                             10-Q for the quarter  ended  September  30,
                             1995).

                        (d)  Registrant's  1995  Incentive  Compensation
                             Plan approved by Registrant's  shareholders
                             on May 11, 1995  (incorporated by reference
                             to   Exhibit   4.4  to   Registration   No.
                             33-60061)  and   amendment   thereto  dated
                             November   21,   1996    (incorporated   by
                             Reference    to   Exhibit   10.1   (l)   to
                             Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                             the year  ended  December  31,  1996),  and
                             amendment  thereto dated  February 25, 1997
                             (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                             to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                             10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997).

                             (i)   Form  of  Stock   Option   Agreement,
                             pursuant  to  1995  Incentive  Compensation
                             Plan and dated as of May 22, 1995,  entered
                             into  by   Registrant   and  its   officers
                             (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.5
                             to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                             10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995).

                             (ii)  Form  of  Stock  Option  Agreement,
                             pursuant  to 1995  Incentive  Compensation
                             Plan and dated as of June 23, 1995, entered
                             into by Registrant and certain key employees
                             (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.6
                             to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                             10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995).

                             (iii) Form  of   Stock   Option  Agreement,
                             pursuant to 1995 Incentive Compensation Plan
                             and dated as of February 24, 1997, entered
                             into by Registrant and its officers (incor-
                             porated by reference to  Exhibit  10.4   to
                             Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                             for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).

                             (iv)  Form  of  Stock   Option   Agreement,
                             pursuant  to  1995  Incentive  Compensation
                             Plan and  dated as of  February  21,  2000,
                             entered into by Registrant and its officers
                             (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                             (t) to  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form
                             10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

                             (v)   Form of Amended and Restated Restricted
                             Stock  and Performance Share  Agreement dated
                             as of March 16,  1998,  relating  to  equity
                             incentive  awards  granted in  1997 pursuant
                             to Registrant's 1995 Incentive   Compensation
                             Plan  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                             10.2 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on
                             Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended March 31,1998).

                             (vi)  Form of Restricted Stock and Performance
                             Share Agreement, dated as of March  16, 1998,
                             relating to equity incentive  awards  granted
                             in 1998 pursuant to Registrant's 1995 Incentive
                             Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
                             Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                             Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998).

                             (vii) Form of Restricted Stock and Performance
                             Share  Agreement,  dated as of February 22,
                             1999,  relating to equity  incentive awards
                             granted   in   1999    pursuant    to   the
                             Registrant's  1995  Incentive  Compensation
                             Plan  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                             10.1(x) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                             Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

                        (e)  Amended  and  Restated   Registrant's  2000
                             Incentive  Compensation  Plan,  as  amended
                             through  May  23,  2000   (incorporated  by
                             reference to Exhibit  10.2 to  Registrant's
                             Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
                             quarter ended June 30, 2000).


                10.3    Other Non-Qualified Employee Benefit Plans

                        (a)  Registrant's    Key   Employee    Incentive
                             Compensation  Plan,  dated January 1, 1984,
                             as amended and  restated as of November 16,
                             1995  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                             10.1(f) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                             Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                             1995) and amendment  thereto dated November
                             21,  1996  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                             Exhibit  10.1  (f) to  Registrant's  Annual
                             Report  on Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                             December 31, 1996),  and amendment  thereto
                             dated  February 25, 1997  (incorporated  by
                             reference to Exhibit  10.2 to  Registrant's
                             Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
                             quarter ended March 31, 1997).

                       (b)   Registrant's      Restated     Supplemental
                             Executive  Retirement  Plan, dated April 3,
                             2000  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                             10.1(d) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                             Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended March 31,
                             2000.)

                       (c)   Registrant's  Restated Supplemental Defined
                             Contribution Plan, dated as of November 16,
                             1995  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                             10.1(q) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                             Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                             1995),  amendment  thereto  dated  July 15,
                             1996  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                             10.4 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on
                             Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,
                             1996) and amendment  thereto dated November
                             21,  1996  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                             Exhibit  10.1  (p) to  Registrant's  Annual
                             Report  on Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                             December 31, 1996).

                       (d)   Registrant's     Amended    and    Restated
                             Supplemental    Dollars   &   Sense   Plan,
                             effective    as   of    January   1,   1999
                             (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                             (q) to  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form
                             10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998).

                       (e)   Registrant's  Supplemental  Defined Benefit
                             Plan,  effective  as  of  January  1,  1999
                             (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                             (y) to  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form
                             10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998).

                       (f)   Registrant's  Amended and  Restated  Salary
                             Continuation    (Disability)    Plan    for
                             Officers,    dated    November   26,   1991
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16
                             of Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                             for the year ended December 31, 1991).

                       (g)   Registrant's  Restated  Outside  Directors'
                             Retirement  Plan,  dated as of November 16,
                             1995  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                             10.1(t) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                             Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                             1995).

                       (h)   Registrant's Restated Deferred Compensation
                             Plan  for  Outside  Directors,  dated as of
                             November   16,   1995    (incorporated   by
                             reference    to    Exhibit    10.1(u)    to
                             Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                             the year ended December 31, 1995).

                       (i)   Registrant's    Chairman/Chief    Executive
                             Officer   Short-Term    Incentive   Program
                             (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.6
                             to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                             10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).

                10.4   Employment, Severance and Related Agreements

                       (a)   Employment Agreement,  originally dated May
                             24, 1993,  as amended and restated  through
                             February 22, 2000, by and between Clarke M.
                             Williams and  Registrant  (incorporated  by
                             reference    to    Exhibit    10.1(a)    to
                             Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                             for the quarter ended March 31, 2000).

                       (b)   Agreement,  dated December 31, 1994, by and
                             between  Jim  D.  Reppond  and   Registrant
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24
                             to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                             for the year ended December 31, 1994).

                       (c)   Consulting  Agreement,  dated as of July 2,
                             1996, by and between  Registrant and Jim D.
                             Reppond   (incorporated   by  reference  to
                             Exhibit 10 to Registrant's Quarterly Report
                             on  Form   10-Q  for  the   quarter   ended
                             September 30, 1996).

                       (d)   Change of Control Agreement, dated February
                             22, 2000 by and between  Glen F. Post,  III
                             and Registrant  (incorporated  by reference
                             to   Exhibit    10.1(b)   to   Registrant's
                             Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
                             quarter ended March 31, 2000).

                       (e)   Form of Change of Control Agreement, dated
                             February 22, 2000, by and between Registrant
                             and David D. Cole, R. Stewart Ewing, Michael
                             E. Maslowski and Harvey P. Perry (incorporated
                             by reference exhibit 10.1(c) to the Registrant's
                             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                             ended March 31, 2000).

                       (f)   Form of Change of Control  Agreement  dated
                             July  24,   2000,   by  and   between   the
                             Registrant    and    Karen    A.    Puckett
                             (incorporated   by   reference  to  Exhibit
                             10.1(c) of Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                             Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended March 31,
                             2000).


                10.5   Other Agreements

                       (a)   Amended   and   Restated   Asset   Purchase
                             Agreement   by  and  among   GTE   Arkansas
                             Incorporated, GTE Midwest Incorporated, GTE
                             Southwest   Incorporated   and  Registrant,
                             dated  June  29,  1999   (incorporated   by
                             reference  to  Exhibit  99 to  Registrant's
                             Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
                             quarter ended June 30, 1999).

                       (b)   Asset Purchase Agreement by and between GTE
                             Midwest     Incorporated     and    Spectra
                             Communications  Group, LLC dated as of July
                             8,  1999   (incorporated  by  reference  to
                             Exhibit 2.2 of Registrant's  Current Report
                             on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2000).

                       (c)   Asset Purchase Agreement by and between GTE
                             North  Incorporated  and  Telephone  USA of
                             Wisconsin,  LLC dated as of August 19, 1999
                             (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 2.3
                             of Registrant's  Current Report on Form 8-K
                             dated September 29, 2000).

                       (d)   Asset Purchase Agreement by and between GTE
                             North  Incorporated and Registrant dated as
                             of  October  11,  1999   (incorporated   by
                             reference  to Exhibit  2.4 of  Registrant's
                             Current Report on Form 8-K dated  September
                             29, 2000).

                21     Subsidiaries of the Registrant, included elsewhere
                       herein.

                23     Independent Auditors' Consent, included elsewhere herein.



                                   SIGNATURES


       Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             CenturyTel, Inc.,


Date:   March 22, 2001                      By:  /s/ Clarke M. Williams
                                                 ---------------------------
                                                   Clarke M. Williams
                                                   Chairman of the Board

       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.



 /s/ Clarke M. Williams
- ----------------------------    Chairman of the Board
Clarke M. Williams               of Directors                     March 22, 2001

                                Vice Chairman of the
/s/ Glen F. Post, III            Board of Directors,
- ----------------------------     President, and Chief
Glen F. Post, III                Executive Officer                March 22, 2001



/s/ R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.       Executive Vice President and
- ----------------------------     Chief Financial Officer          March 22, 2001
R. Stewart Ewing, Jr             (Principal Accounting Officer)



/s/ Harvey P. Perry             Executive Vice President,
- ----------------------------     Chief Administrative Officer
Harvey P. Perry                  and Director                     March 22, 2001



/s/ William R. Boles, Jr.
- ----------------------------
William R. Boles, Jr.           Director                          March 22, 2001



/s/ Virginia Boulet
- ----------------------------
Virginia Boulet                 Director                          March 22, 2001



/s/ Ernest Butler, Jr.
- ----------------------------
Ernest Butler, Jr.              Director                          March 22, 2001



/s/ Calvin Czeschin
- ----------------------------
Calvin Czeschin                 Director                          March 22, 2001



/s/ James B. Gardner
- ----------------------------
James B. Gardner                 Director                         March 22, 2001



/s/ W. Bruce Hanks
- ----------------------------
W. Bruce Hanks                  Director                          March 22, 2001



/s/ R. L. Hargrove, Jr.
- ----------------------------
R. L. Hargrove, Jr.             Director                          March 22, 2001



/s/ Johnny Hebert
- ----------------------------
Johnny Hebert                   Director                          March 22, 2001



/s/ F. Earl Hogan
- ----------------------------
F. Earl Hogan                   Director                          March 22, 2001



/s/ C. G. Melville, Jr.
- ----------------------------
C. G. Melville, Jr.             Director                          March 22, 2001



/s/ Jim D. Reppond
- ----------------------------
Jim D. Reppond                  Director                          March 22, 2001







           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                              STATEMENTS OF INCOME




See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.



           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (continued)
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                                 BALANCE SHEETS


See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.



           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (Continued)
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.



           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (continued)
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
             NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT



(A)    LONG-TERM DEBT

       The approximate  annual debt maturities for the five years  subsequent to
December 31, 2000 are as follows:

                          2001    -  $    57.5 million
                          2002    -  $   906.3 million
                          2003    -  $     4.8 million
                          2004    -  $    51.5 million
                          2005    -  $   151.0 million

(B)    GUARANTEES

       As of December 31, 2000,  CenturyTel has guaranteed  debt of subsidiaries
totaling $325.6 million.

(C)    DIVIDENDS FROM SUBSIDIARIES

       Dividends  paid to CenturyTel by  consolidated  subsidiaries  were $174.6
million,  $162.1  million  and  $116.9  million  during  2000,  1999  and  1998,
respectively.

(D)    INCOME TAXES AND INTEREST PAID

       Income  taxes  paid by  CenturyTel  (including  amounts  reimbursed  from
subsidiaries)  were $124.0  million,  $217.0  million and $162.0  million during
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

       Interest paid by CenturyTel was $199.3 million, $118.5 million and $114.7
million during 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

(E)    AFFILIATED TRANSACTIONS

       CenturyTel  provides and bills management services to subsidiaries and in
certain  instances makes interest  bearing  advances to finance  construction of
plant and  purchases of equipment.  CenturyTel  recorded  intercompany  interest
income of $83.0 million, $47.8 million and $39.7 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

       CenturyTel recorded intercompany interest expense of $74.5 million, $13.4
million and $13.4 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.




                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.

              For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998



(1)   Customers' accounts written-off, net of recoveries.

(2)   Allowance for doubtful accounts at the date of acquisition of purchased
      subsidiaries, net of allowance for doubtful accounts at the date of
      disposition of subsidiaries sold.

(3)   Adjust excess cost of net assets acquired upon utilization of net
      operating loss carryforwards of acquired subsidiary.


