
10-K
FORM 10K FYE 12/31/99




                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

           [ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                                       or

          [ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file number 1-7784

                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

               Louisiana                                  72-0651161
    (State or other jurisdiction of                     (IRS Employer
     incorporation or organization)                   Identification No.)

100 Century Park Drive, Monroe, Louisiana                   71203
 (Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code - (318) 388-9000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

        Title of each class            Name of each exchange on which registered
        -------------------            -----------------------------------------

  Common Stock, par value $1.00                  New York Stock Exchange
                                                 Berlin Stock Exchange
  Preference Share Purchase Rights               New York Stock Exchange
                                                 Berlin Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

As of February  29,  2000,  the  aggregate  market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates  (affiliates  being for these purposes only directors,  executive
officers  and  holders of more than five  percent of the  Company's  outstanding
voting  securities)  was $4.7  billion.  As of  February  29,  2000,  there were
140,216,554 shares of common stock outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Portions of the  Registrant's  Proxy  Statement  prepared in connection with the
2000 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated in Part III of this Report.




                                     PART I

Item 1.       Business

      General.   CenturyTel,  Inc.  ("CenturyTel")  is  a  regional  diversified
communications  company engaged primarily in providing local exchange  telephone
services  and wireless  telephone  communications  services.  For the year ended
December 31, 1999, local exchange telephone  operations and wireless  operations
provided 68% and 25%,  respectively,  of the consolidated revenues of CenturyTel
and  its  subsidiaries  (the  "Company").  Substantially  all of  the  Company's
telephone and wireless  operations are conducted  within the continental  United
States.

      At December 31, 1999, the Company's local exchange telephone  subsidiaries
operated over 1.27 million telephone access lines,  primarily in rural, suburban
and small urban areas in 20 states,  with the largest  customer bases located in
Wisconsin,  Washington, Michigan, Louisiana, Colorado, Ohio, Oregon and Montana.
According  to  published  sources,  the  Company is the  seventh  largest  local
exchange  telephone  company in the United  States based on the number of access
lines served. For more information, see "Telephone Operations."

      At December 31, 1999, the Company's  majority-owned  and operated cellular
systems served  approximately  707,000 customers in 19 Metropolitan  Statistical
Areas  ("MSAs") in Michigan,  Louisiana,  Arkansas,  Mississippi,  Wisconsin and
Texas,  and 23 Rural  Service  Areas  ("RSAs"),  most of which are in  Michigan,
Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi and Wisconsin. The Company's ownership interest
in these  operated  markets  represented  approximately  7.6  million  pops (the
estimated  population of licensed cellular  telephone markets  multiplied by the
Company's  proportionate equity interest in the licensed operators thereof).  At
December 31, 1999, the Company also owned minority  equity  interests in 10 MSAs
and 17 RSAs,  representing  approximately 1.9 million pops. Of the Company's 9.5
million aggregate pops,  approximately 64% are attributable to the Company's MSA
interests,  with  the  balance  attributable  to its RSA  interests.  All of the
cellular systems  operated by the Company are operated under wireline  licenses,
except  for three  MSAs and five  RSAs  which are  operated  under  non-wireline
licenses.  According to data derived from published sources,  the Company is the
ninth  largest  cellular  telephone  company in the United  States  based on the
Company's 9.5 million pops. For more information, see "Wireless Operations."

      The Company  also  provides  long  distance,  security  monitoring,  cable
television and interactive  services in certain local and regional  markets,  as
well as certain printing and related services. For more information,  see "Other
Operations."

      Recent  acquisitions  and  dispositions.  In  November  1999,  the Company
acquired the assets of DigiSys, Inc., an Internet service provider in Kalispell,
Montana.  DigiSys  provides  Internet  services to more than 8,600  customers in
Montana and operates MontanaWeb,  one of the largest online business directories
in the state.

      In October 1999, the Company acquired the non-wireline cellular license to
serve  Mississippi  RSA  #5,  which  covers  160,000  pops.  Mississippi  RSA #5
encompasses  the  Vicksburg  and  Greenville  markets  as  well as  portions  of
Interstate Highway 20 between Jackson, Mississippi and Monroe, Louisiana.

      On  December  1,  1998,  the  Company  acquired  the  assets of certain of
Ameritech's  telephone  operations  and  related  telephone  directories  in  19
telephone  exchanges  covering 21 communities in northern and central  Wisconsin
for  approximately  $221 million cash.  The  operations  acquired by the Company
include  the  telephone   property  and  equipment  that  serves  nearly  69,000
customers,  or  approximately  86,000  access  lines,  as well  as nine  related
telephone directories.

      On December 1, 1997, the Company acquired Pacific Telecom, Inc. ("PTI") in
exchange  for  $1.503  billion  cash.  As a result of the PTI  acquisition,  the
Company  acquired (i) over  660,000  telephone  access lines in four  midwestern
states,  seven western states and Alaska, (ii) over 88,000 cellular customers in
ten  markets  located in two  midwestern  states  and  Alaska and (iii)  various
wireless,  cable television and other  communications  assets.  In May 1998, the
Company sold PTI's undersea cable  operations  for  approximately  $61.8 million
cash. In May 1999, the Company sold  substantially  all of its Alaska operations
that it had  acquired  from PTI for  approximately  $300 million  after-tax.  In
February  2000,  the Company sold its interest in Alaska RSA #1 which  completed
the Company's divestiture of its Alaska operations.

      During  late  1997 and early  1998,  the  Company  acquired  two  security
monitoring  businesses that provide services to approximately 6,000 customers in
north central Louisiana, southern Arkansas and northwestern Mississippi.

      In  December  1997 the  Company  acquired an  additional  76%  interest in
Wisconsin  RSA  #8,  which  is  adjacent  to  the  Company's  existing  cellular
operations in southwestern Wisconsin.

      During  1997 the Company  exchanged  its 89%  interest in its  competitive
access subsidiary for approximately 4.3 million shares of publicly traded common
stock. Approximately 3.8 million shares of such stock were sold in November 1997
for $203 million and the remaining shares were converted into  approximately 1.0
million shares of  MCIWorldCom,  Inc.  ("WorldCom") in early 1998. In the second
quarter of 1998,  the Company sold 750,000  shares of WorldCom  common stock for
$35.6  million.  In January  1999,  the  Company  sold its  remaining  shares of
WorldCom stock for $20.1 million.

      In January  1997 the Company  acquired  Pecoco,  Inc., a provider of local
exchange  telephone  service in four counties in  Wisconsin.  As a result of the
acquisition,  the Company  acquired (i) more than 7,600 telephone  access lines,
(ii) a minority  interest  in two  cellular  partnerships  serving  Madison  and
Milwaukee,  Wisconsin,  representing approximately 35,000 pops and (iii) certain
cable television assets.

      In June 1999 the Company sold all of the operations of its Brownsville and
McAllen,   Texas,   cellular  systems  to  Western   Wireless   Corporation  for
approximately  $96 million cash. The Company  received a proportionate  share of
the sale proceeds of approximately $45 million after-tax.

      The Company continually  evaluates the possibility of acquiring additional
telecommunications  assets in exchange for cash,  securities or both, and at any
given time may be engaged in discussions or  negotiations  regarding  additional
acquisitions.  The Company generally does not announce its acquisitions until it
has entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement. Over the past few years,
the number and size of  communications  properties  on the market has  increased
substantially.  Although  the  Company's  primary  focus will  continue to be on
acquiring  telephone and wireless interests that are proximate to its properties
or  that  serve  a  customer  base  large  enough  for the  Company  to  operate
efficiently,  other  communications  interests  may also be  acquired  and these
acquisitions could have a material impact upon the Company.

      Pending acquisitions.  In June 1999, the Company signed a definitive asset
purchase  agreement  to purchase  from  affiliates  of GTE  Corporation  ("GTE")
telephone  access lines (which  numbered  approximately  225,000 at December 31,
1999) and related local  exchange  assets in Arkansas for  approximately  $845.8
million in cash.  In July  1999,  the  Company  acquired  a 61.5%  (56.9%  fully
diluted) interest in a  newly-organized  joint venture company which has entered
into a definitive  asset purchase  agreement with  affiliates of GTE to purchase
telephone  access lines (which  numbered  approximately  121,000 at December 31,
1999) and related  local  exchange  assets in Missouri  for  approximately  $290
million in cash. At closing,  the Company has agreed to make approximately a $55
million preferred equity investment in the new entity and it is anticipated that
the Company will loan the new entity approximately $220 million.

      In August 1999, the Company acquired an 89% interest in a  newly-organized
joint  venture  company  which has  entered  into a  definitive  asset  purchase
agreement  to purchase  telephone  access lines  (which  numbered  approximately
61,700 as of December 31, 1999) and related local  exchange  assets in Wisconsin
from a GTE affiliate for approximately $170 million cash. At closing the Company
has  agreed  to make an equity  investment  in the newly  organized  company  of
approximately $37.8 million and it is anticipated that the Company will loan the
new entity approximately $130 million. In October 1999, the Company also entered
into a definitive  asset  purchase  agreement to purchase  additional  telephone
access lines (which numbered  approximately  68,200 as of December 31, 1999) and
related  local   exchange   assets  in  Wisconsin   from  a  GTE  affiliate  for
approximately $195 million cash.

      Other.  As of December  31,  1999,  the Company  had  approximately  5,700
employees,  approximately 760 of whom were members of seven different bargaining
units  represented  by the  International  Brotherhood  of  Electrical  Workers,
Communications Workers of America, or the NTS Employee Committee. Relations with
employees continue to be generally good.

      CenturyTel  was  incorporated  under  Louisiana  law in 1968 to serve as a
holding company for several telephone companies acquired over the previous 15 to
20 years.  CenturyTel's  principal  executive offices are located at 100 Century
Park Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203 and its telephone number is (318) 388-9000.


                              TELEPHONE OPERATIONS

      According to published  sources,  the Company is the seventh largest local
exchange  telephone  company in the United  States,  based on the more than 1.27
million access lines it served at December 31, 1999. All of the Company's access
lines are digitally switched. Through its operating telephone subsidiaries,  the
Company  provides  services to  predominately  rural,  suburban  and small urban
markets  in 20 states.  The table  below sets  forth  certain  information  with
respect to the Company's access lines as of December 31, 1999 and 1998.




      As indicated in the following table, the Company has experienced growth in
its telephone  operations over the past several years, a substantial  portion of
which  was  attributable  to the  December  1997  acquisition  of PTI and  other
telephone  properties  and  to the  expansion  of  services.  A  portion  of the
Company's  access line  growth was offset by the May 1999 sale of the  Company's
Alaska telephone operations.




      Future  growth in telephone  operations is expected to be derived from (i)
acquiring  additional  telephone  properties from GTE and others, (ii) providing
service to new  customers,  (iii)  increasing  network usage and (iv)  providing
additional  services  made  possible by advances  in  technology  and changes in
regulation.  For information on developing  competitive trends, see "-Regulation
and Competition."

Services

      The Company's local exchange  telephone  subsidiaries  derive revenue from
providing (i) local telephone  services,  (ii) network access services and (iii)
other related services. The following table reflects the percentage of telephone
operating revenues derived from these respective services:




      Local  service.  Local service  revenues are derived from the provision of
local  exchange  telephone  services in the Company's  service  areas.  Internal
access  line  growth  during  1999,  1998  and  1997 was  4.8%,  4.7% and  4.4%,
respectively.  The Company believes that access line growth in the future should
benefit from population growth in its service areas,  acquisitions and increases
in the number of households  maintaining  more than one access line. The Company
believes its Internet access services  (discussed  further below) have led to an
increase in orders for additional lines.

      The  installation  of digital  switches  and related  software has been an
important  component  of the  Company's  growth  strategy  because it allows the
Company to offer enhanced services (such as call forwarding, conference calling,
caller  identification,  selective call ringing and call waiting) and to thereby
increase  utilization of existing access lines. In 1999 the Company continued to
expand its list of premium  services  (such as voice mail and  Internet  access)
offered in certain service areas and aggressively marketed these services.

      Network  access.  Network  access  revenues  primarily  relate to services
provided  by the  Company  to long  distance  carriers  and other  customers  in
connection  with the use of the Company's  facilities to originate and terminate
interstate and intrastate long distance telephone calls.  Access charges to long
distance  carriers and other  customers are based on tariffed access rates filed
with the Federal  Communications  Commission ("FCC") for interstate services and
with the respective state regulatory agency for intrastate services.  Certain of
the Company's  interstate  network  access  revenues are based on access charges
prescribed  by the FCC; the remainder of such revenues are derived under revenue
sharing arrangements with other local exchange carriers ("LECs") administered by
the National Exchange Carrier Association ("NECA").

      Certain of the Company's  intrastate  network access  revenues are derived
through  access  charges  billed by the  Company  to  intrastate  long  distance
carriers and other LEC  customers.  Such  intrastate  network access charges are
based on  access  tariffs,  which are  subject  to state  regulatory  commission
approval.  Additionally,  certain of the  Company's  intrastate  network  access
revenues,  along with  intrastate  long distance  revenues,  are derived through
revenue sharing arrangements with other LECs.

      The Company is installing fiber optic cable in certain of its high traffic
routes and provides  alternative  routing of telephone  service over fiber optic
cable networks in several  strategic  operating areas. At December 31, 1999, the
Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  had over 7,310 miles of fiber optic cable in
use.

      Other.  Other revenues include  revenues related to (i) leasing,  selling,
installing,   maintaining  and  repairing  customer  premise  telecommunications
equipment and wiring,  (ii) providing  billing and collection  services for long
distance companies,  (iii) participating in the publication of local directories
and (iv)  providing  Internet  access.  The Company began  offering  traditional
Internet  access services to its telephone  customers in 1995.  During 1999, the
Company began offering in select markets digital subscriber line Internet access
services,  a high-speed  premium-priced  data service.  At December 31, 1999 the
Company provided  Internet access services to approximately  59,700 customers in
355 markets in 13 states.  These 355 markets  represent  70% of the access lines
served by the Company's LECs.

      Certain large  communications  companies  for which the Company  currently
provides  billing and collection  services  continue to indicate their desire to
reduce  their  billing  and  collection  expenses,  which has  resulted  and may
continue to result in future  reductions of the Company's billing and collection
revenues.

      For further information on the regulation of the Company's  revenues,  see
"-Regulation and Competition."


Federal Financing Programs

      Certain  of  the  Company's  telephone   subsidiaries   receive  long-term
financing from the Rural Utilities  Service ("RUS") and the Rural Telephone Bank
("RTB").  The RUS has made long-term loans to telephone companies since 1949 for
the purpose of improving  telephone service in rural areas. The RUS continues to
make new loans at  interest  rates that  range  from 5% to 7% based on  borrower
qualifications and the cost of funds to the United States  government.  The RTB,
established  in 1971,  makes  long-term  loans at  interest  rates  based on its
average cost of funds as determined by statutory formula (such rates ranged from
5.89% to 5.98% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1999),  and in some cases
makes loans  concurrently with RUS loans. Most of the Company's  telephone plant
is  pledged  or  mortgaged  to secure  obligations  of the  Company's  telephone
subsidiaries to the RUS and RTB. The Company's telephone subsidiaries which have
borrowed from government agencies generally may not loan or advance any funds to
CenturyTel, but may pay dividends if certain financial covenants are met.

      For  additional  information  regarding the Company's  financing,  see the
Company's consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 herein.

Regulation and Competition

      Traditionally,  LECs have operated as regulated monopolies.  Consequently,
the majority of the  Company's  telephone  operations  have  traditionally  been
regulated  extensively by various state regulatory  agencies  (generally  called
public service  commissions or public  utility  commissions)  and by the FCC. As
discussed in greater detail below, passage of the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(the "1996 Act"), coupled with state legislative and regulatory  initiatives and
technological  changes,  has  fundamentally  altered the  telephone  industry by
reducing the  regulation of LECs and  permitting  competition in each segment of
the  telephone  industry.  Although  CenturyTel  anticipates  that these  trends
towards  reduced  regulation  and increased  competition  will  continue,  it is
difficult to determine the form or degree of future  regulation and  competition
in the Company's service areas.

      State regulation. The local service rates and intrastate access charges of
substantially all of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are regulated by state
regulatory  commissions.  Most of such commissions have traditionally  regulated
pricing through "rate of return" regulation that focuses on authorized levels of
earnings by LECs. Most of these  commissions  also (i) regulate the purchase and
sale  of  LECs,  (ii)  prescribe   depreciation  rates  and  certain  accounting
procedures and (iii) regulate various other matters,  including  certain service
standards and operating procedures.

      In recent years, state legislatures and regulatory  commissions in most of
the states in which the Company has substantial  operations have either begun to
reduce the regulation of LECs or have announced their intention to do so, and it
is expected  that this trend will  continue.  Wisconsin,  Louisiana  and several
other of these  states have passed  legislation  which permit LECs to opt out of
rate of return  regulation  in exchange  for  agreeing to  alternative  forms of
regulation  which  typically  permit the LEC greater  freedom to establish local
service  rates in  exchange  for  agreeing  not to  charge  rates in  excess  of
specified  caps.  As discussed  further  below most of the  Company's  remaining
Wisconsin  telephone  subsidiaries  have agreed to be  governed  by  alternative
regulation  plans, and the Company  continues to explore its options for similar
treatment  in  other  states.  The  Company  believes  that  reduced  regulatory
oversight of certain of the Company's telephone operations may allow the Company
to  offer  new and  competitive  services  faster  than  under  the  traditional
regulatory process. Coincident with these efforts,  legislative,  regulatory and
technological  changes  have  introduced  competition  into the  local  exchange
industry. See "-Developments Affecting Competition."

      Substantially  all of the  state  regulatory  commissions  have  statutory
authority,  the specific limits of which vary, to initiate and conduct  earnings
reviews  of the LECs that  they  regulate  under  "rate of  return"  regulation.
Notwithstanding  the movement towards  deregulation,  most of the Company's LECs
continue to be regulated under rate of return regulation,  and remain subject to
earnings reviews.

      In 1997  the  Louisiana  Public  Service  Commission  ("LPSC")  adopted  a
Consumer Price  Protection  Plan (the  "Louisiana  Plan"),  effective July 1997,
which impacts all of the Company's LECs operating in Louisiana.  The new form of
regulation  focuses on price and quality of service.  Under the Louisiana  Plan,
the  Company's  Louisiana  LECs'  local  rates were frozen for a period of three
years and access  rates were  frozen  for a period of two  years.  Although  the
Louisiana  Plan has no  specified  term,  the LPSC is  required  to review it by
mid-2000.  The Company's Louisiana LECs have the option to propose a new plan at
any time if the LPSC  determines that (i) effective  competition  exists or (ii)
unforeseen events threaten the subsidiary's  ability to provide adequate service
or impair its financial health.

      The Company's telephone  operations in Wisconsin that were acquired in the
December  1997  acquisition  of PTI have  been  regulated  under an  alternative
regulation plan (the  "Wisconsin  Plan") since June 1996. In late 1999 and early
2000,   substantially  all  of  the  Company's   remaining  Wisconsin  telephone
subsidiaries agreed to be subject to alternative regulation plans. Each of these
plans have a five-year  term and permit the Company to freely adjust local rates
within    specified    parameters    if    certain     quality-of-service    and
infrastructure-development   commitments  are  met.  These  plans  also  include
initiatives designed to promote competition.

      The Michigan Public Service  Commission  regulates the Company's  Michigan
telephone  subsidiaries  pursuant to the parameters  established by the Michigan
Telecommunications Act of 1995 ("MTA"). The MTA restructured regulation to focus
on price and  quality  of  service  as  opposed  to  traditional  rate of return
regulation.  The MTA relies  more on existing  federal  and state law  regarding
antitrust  consumer   protection  and  fair  trade  to  provide  safeguards  for
competition and consumers.

      FCC regulation.  The FCC regulates the interstate services provided by the
Company's telephone  subsidiaries  primarily by regulating the interstate access
charges that are billed to long distance companies and other LECs by the Company
for use of its local network in connection  with the origination and termination
of interstate  telephone  calls.  Additionally,  the FCC has prescribed  certain
rules and regulations for telephone companies,  including  regulations regarding
the use of radio frequencies;  a uniform system of accounts; and rules regarding
the  separation  of  costs  between   jurisdictions  and,  ultimately,   between
interstate services.

      Effective January 1, 1991, the FCC adopted price-cap  regulation  relating
to interstate access rates for the Regional Bell Operating  Companies  ("RBOCs")
and GTE  Corporation.  All  other  LECs may  elect to be  subject  to  price-cap
regulation. Under price-cap regulation, limits imposed on a company's interstate
rates are adjusted periodically to reflect inflation,  productivity  improvement
and changes in certain  non-controllable  costs.  In May 1993 the FCC adopted an
optional incentive regulatory plan for LECs not subject to price-cap regulation.
A LEC electing the optional incentive regulatory plan would, among other things,
file  tariffs  based  primarily  on  historical  costs  and  not be  allowed  to
participate  in the  relevant  NECA  pooling  arrangements.  The Company has not
elected price-cap regulation or the optional incentive regulatory plan, but will
continue to evaluate its options on a periodic basis.  Either election,  if made
by the Company,  would have to be applicable  to all of the Company's  telephone
subsidiaries.  The authorized interstate access rate of return for the Company's
telephone  subsidiaries  is  currently  11.25%,  which  is the  authorized  rate
established  by the FCC for LECs not  governed by  price-cap  regulation  or the
optional incentive regulatory plan.

      In September  1998,  the FCC  initiated a proceeding  to  represcribe  the
authorized rate of return for interstate  access services  provided by LECs. The
FCC  periodically  represcribes  this rate of return to ensure  that the service
rates filed by incumbent LECs subject to rate of return  regulation  continue to
be just and reasonable. It is uncertain whether or by how much the FCC may lower
the  authorized  rate of  return.  For  rate  of  return  companies,  the FCC is
considering  how other  unresolved  issues such as  jurisdictional  separations,
access   charge  reform  and   universal   service  must  be  addressed   before
represcribing rate of return.

      In an access charge reform order adopted in May 1997,  the FCC changed its
system  of  interstate   access  charges  to  make  them   compatible  with  the
deregulatory  framework  established by the 1996 Act. Such changes are primarily
applicable  to  price-cap  companies.   The  Company's  telephone   subsidiaries
determine   interstate  revenues  under  rate  of  return  regulation  and  are,
therefore,  only minimally  impacted by the access charge reform order.  In July
1998, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed  Rulemaking to amend the access charge
rules for rate of return companies in a manner similar to that adopted for price
cap companies,  subject to reviewing whether differences exist between price cap
companies and rate of return  companies  that would require  different  rules in
order to achieve the goal of fostering an  efficient,  competitive  marketplace.
The FCC has not yet issued a final ruling on this matter.

      In  1998  the  FCC   created  a   federal-state   joint  board  to  review
jurisdictional  separations  procedures  through  which the  costs of  regulated
telecommunications  services are  allocated  to the  interstate  and  intrastate
jurisdictions. The board has not yet issued its findings.

      High-cost support funds, revenue sharing arrangements and related matters.
A significant number of the Company's telephone  subsidiaries  recover a portion
of  their  costs  under  federal  and  state  cost  recovery   mechanisms   that
traditionally  have allowed LECs serving  small  communities  and rural areas to
provide  communications  services  reasonably  comparable to those  available in
urban areas and at reasonably comparable prices.

      The 1996  Act  authorized  the  establishment  of new  federal  and  state
universal   service   funds   to   provide   continued   support   to   eligible
telecommunications  carriers.  In May 1997 the FCC adopted an order on universal
service,  as mandated  by the 1996 Act.  In the order,  the FCC ruled that rural
telephone  companies which are designated eligible  telecommunications  carriers
will continue to receive universal  service funding.  Each of the Company's LECs
has been so designated by its respective state regulatory  agency.  As a result,
the Company's LECs will continue to receive  payments under the federal  support
mechanisms  currently in effect until the FCC adopts funding support  mechanisms
based on  forward-looking  economic  costs,  which it is  required to do, but no
earlier  than  January  2001.  Although  the  Company  anticipates  that  it may
experience  a  reduction  in its federal  support  revenues at some point in the
future,  management  believes it is premature to assess or estimate the ultimate
impact thereof. There can be no assurance, however, that such impact will not be
material.  During 1999 and 1998 the Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  received
$127.5  million  (of  which  $5.2  million  related  to  the  Company's   Alaska
operations)  and $127.6  million (of which $13.4  million  related to the Alaska
based  operations),  respectively,  from the  federal  Universal  Service  Fund,
representing 7.6% and 8.1%, respectively, of the Company's consolidated revenues
for 1999 and 1998. In addition,  the Company's telephone  subsidiaries  received
$19.5 million and $1.5 million in 1999 and 1998,  respectively,  from intrastate
support funds. For additional information, see Item 7 of this report.

      As part of its  universal  service  order,  the FCC also  established  new
programs to provide discounted  telecommunications services annually to schools,
libraries and rural health care providers. All communications carriers providing
interstate  telecommunications  services,  including the Company's  LECs and its
cellular  and long  distance  operations,  are required to  contribute  to these
programs.  The Company's LECs recover their funding contributions in their rates
for interstate  services.  The Company's  contribution  by its cellular and long
distance operations, which is passed on to its customers, was approximately $3.9
million in 1999 and $3.1 million in 1998.

      Some of the  Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  operate  in states  where
traditional  cost recovery  mechanisms,  including  rate  structures,  are under
evaluation  or have been  modified.  See  "-State  Regulation."  There can be no
assurance  that these  states  will  continue  to provide  for cost  recovery at
current levels.

      Substantially  all of the  Company's  LECs  concur  with the  common  line
tariffs and  certain of the  Company's  LECs  concur with the traffic  sensitive
tariffs filed by the NECA;  such LECs  participate in the access revenue sharing
arrangements  administered  by the  NECA  for  interstate  services.  All of the
intrastate  network  access  revenues of the Company's  LECs are based on access
charges,  cost  separation  studies  or  special  settlement  arrangements.  See
"-Services."

      Certain  long  distance  carriers  continue to request that certain of the
Company's LECs reduce  intrastate  access tariffed rates.  There is no assurance
that these requests will not result in decreased access revenues.

      Developments affecting competition.  The communications industry continues
to undergo  fundamental  changes  which are likely to  significantly  impact the
future  operations and financial  performance of all  communications  companies.
Primarily  as  a  result  of   legislative   and  regulatory   initiatives   and
technological  changes,  competition  has been introduced and encouraged in each
sector of the telephone industry,  including,  most recently, the local exchange
sector. As a result, the number of companies offering  competitive  services has
increased substantially.

      As indicated  above, in February 1996 Congress enacted the 1996 Act, which
obligates LECs to permit  competitors to  interconnect  their  facilities to the
LEC's  network  and to take  various  other  steps that are  designed to promote
competition.  The 1996 Act  imposes  several  duties on a LEC if it  receives  a
specific  request  from  another  entity  which seeks to connect with or provide
services using the LEC's network.  In addition,  each incumbent LEC is obligated
to  (i)  negotiate  interconnection  agreements  in  good  faith,  (ii)  provide
"unbundled"  access to all aspects of the LEC's  network,  (iii) offer resale of
its  telecommunications  services at wholesale rates and (iv) permit competitors
to  collocate  its  physical  plant on the LEC's  property,  or provide  virtual
collocation if physical  collocation is not  practicable.  Although the 1996 Act
provides  certain  exemptions  for  rural  LECs  such as those  operated  by the
Company,  the  FCC's  August  1996  order  implementing  most of the 1996  Act's
interconnection   provisions   placed  the  burden  of  proving  the  continuing
availability  of these  exemptions on rural LECs.  States are permitted to adopt
laws or regulations that provide for greater  competition than is mandated under
the  1996  Act.  Although   substantial   portions  of  the  FCC's  August  1996
interconnection  order have  survived  judicial  challenge,  the FCC has neither
completed its  interconnection  rulemaking nor issued rules on universal service
or access reform.  Management believes that competition in its telephone service
areas has and will  continue to  increase as a result of the 1996 Act,  although
the form and degree of competition  cannot be ascertained until such time as the
FCC (and, in certain instances,  state regulatory  commissions) adopts final and
nonappealable implementing regulations.

      Substantially all of the 20 states in which the Company provides telephone
services  have  taken  legislative  or  regulatory  steps to  further  introduce
competition  into the LEC  business.  Largely as a result of these steps and the
1996 Act, several competitive access providers  originally  organized to provide
redundancy or access  services  have begun,  during the past several  years,  to
provide  competitive  local exchange  services,  principally in high  population
areas.  Moreover,  several  well-capitalized  long distance,  cable  television,
wireless and electric utility companies,  along with several start-up companies,
have also begun to provide  competitive  local  exchange  services or  announced
their intention to do so, and this trend is expected to continue.  Currently the
Company is subject to a limited number of agreements  permitting  competitors in
Wisconsin to purchase from the Company  unbundled  network elements or wholesale
services,  and the  Company  is aware of only a few  other  companies  that have
requested  authorization  to provide  local  exchange  service in the  Company's
service areas.  Over time,  however,  the Company  anticipates that several more
companies will request authorization to provide competitive services, especially
in its operating areas located near larger urban areas.

      In addition to receiving  services directly from companies  competing with
incumbent  LECs,  long  distance  companies  and other users of toll service are
expected to increasingly seek other means to bypass LECs' switching services and
local distribution  facilities.  Certain interexchange carriers provide services
which allow users to divert their traffic from LECs' usage-sensitive services to
their  flat-rate  services.  In addition,  users or long distance  companies may
construct,  modify or lease  facilities to transmit traffic directly from a user
to a long distance company.  Cable television companies,  in particular,  may be
able to modify their  networks to partially or  completely  bypass the Company's
local  network.  Moreover,  users may choose to use wireless  services to bypass
LECs'  switching   services.   Although  certain  of  the  Company's   telephone
subsidiaries  have experienced a loss of traffic to such bypass,  the impact has
thus far not been significant.

      Historically,  cellular telephone  services have complemented  traditional
LEC services.  However, existing and emerging wireless technologies increasingly
compete  with LEC  services in Europe and other parts of the world.  The Company
anticipates   that  similar   competition   may  arise  in  the  United  States,
particularly  if wireless  service  rates  continue to drop.  Technological  and
regulatory developments in cellular telephone, personal communications services,
digital microwave,  coaxial cable, fiber optics,  local multipoint  distribution
services  and other  wired and  wireless  technologies  are  expected to further
permit the  development of alternatives to traditional  landline  services.  For
further information on certain of these developments, see "Wireless Operations -
Regulation and Competition."

      To  the  extent  that  the  telephone  industry  increasingly  experiences
competition,   the  size  and  resources  of  each  respective   competitor  may
increasingly  influence its  prospects.  Many companies  currently  providing or
planning  to  provide  competitive  communication  services  have  substantially
greater financial and marketing resources than the Company,  and several are not
subject to the same regulatory constraints as the Company.

      The  Company  anticipates  that the  traditional  operations  of LECs will
continue to be  impacted  by  continued  technological  developments  as well as
legislative and regulatory  initiatives affecting the ability of LECs to provide
new services and the capability of long distance  companies,  competitive  local
exchange providers, wireless companies, cable television companies and others to
provide competitive LEC services. Competition relating to services traditionally
provided  solely by LECs has thus far  affected  large  urban areas to a greater
extent  than  rural,  suburban  and small urban areas such as those in which the
Company operates. The Company intends to actively monitor these developments, to
observe the effect of emerging competitive trends in initial competitive markets
and to continue to evaluate  new  business  opportunities  that may arise out of
future technological, legislative and regulatory developments.

      The Company anticipates that regulatory changes and competitive  pressures
may result in future revenue  reductions in its telephone  operations.  However,
the Company  anticipates  that such  reductions may be minimized by increases in
revenues  attributable  to the  continued  demand for enhanced  services and new
product offerings.  While the Company expects its telephone revenues to continue
to grow, its internal  telephone  revenue  growth rate may slow during  upcoming
periods.


                               WIRELESS OPERATIONS

      At  December  31,  1999,  the  Company's  cellular  holdings   represented
approximately  9.5 million  pops,  of which 64% were  applicable to MSAs and 36%
were RSA pops.  According to data derived from published sources, the Company is
the ninth largest cellular  telephone  company in the United States based on the
Company's 9.5 million pops.

Cellular Industry

      The cellular telephone industry has been in existence for over 15 years in
the United States. The industry has grown  significantly  during this period and
cellular  service  is now  available  in  substantially  all areas of the United
States. According to the Cellular  Telecommunications  Industry Association,  at
September 1999 there were estimated to be over 57.6 million  cellular  customers
across the United States.

      Until recently,  substantially all radio transmissions of cellular systems
were  conducted on an analog  basis.  Technological  developments  involving the
application of digital radio  technology  offer certain  advantages  over analog
technologies, including expanding the capacity of mobile communications systems,
improving voice clarity, permitting the introduction of new services, and making
such  systems  more  secure.  Providers  of certain  services  competitive  with
cellular have incorporated  digital technology into their operations.  In recent
years most  major  cellular  carriers  have  installed  digital  cellular  voice
transmission  facilities  in certain  of their  systems,  principally  in larger
markets.  Digital  service is now available in 100% of the Company's MSA markets
and approximately a third of its RSA markets.  Approximately 5% of the Company's
cellular customers currently subscribe to digital services. See "-Regulation and
Competition-Developments Affecting Wireless Competition."

Construction and Maintenance

      The construction and maintenance of cellular systems is capital intensive.
Although  all of the  Company's  MSA and RSA systems have been  operational  for
several years, the Company has continued to add cell sites to increase coverage,
provide additional  capacity,  and improve the quality of these systems. In 1999
the Company completed  construction of 109 cell sites in markets operated by the
Company.  At  December  31,  1999,  the Company  operated  711 cell sites in its
majority-owned markets.

      Over the past several years the Company has upgraded  certain  portions of
its wireless  systems to be capable of providing  digital service under the TDMA
standard.  The Company intends to continue installing digital voice transmission
facilities    in   other    markets    in    2000.    See    "-Regulation    and
Competition-Developments  Affecting Wireless  Competition." Capital expenditures
related to majority-owned  and operated  wireless systems totaled  approximately
$58.8 million in 1999. Such capital  expenditures for 2000 are anticipated to be
approximately $100 million.

Strategy

      The Company's business development strategy for its wireless operations is
to secure operating control of service areas that are geographically  clustered.
Clustered  systems aid the  Company's  marketing  efforts  and  provide  various
operating and service  advantages.  Approximately 44% of the Company's customers
are in a single,  contiguous  cluster of eight  MSAs and nine RSAs in  Michigan;
another 25% are in a cluster of five MSAs and seven RSAs in northern and central
Louisiana,  southern  Arkansas and eastern Texas.  See "-The Company's  Cellular
Interests."

      The Company has also traditionally targeted revenues from roaming service.
Roaming  service  revenues  are derived  from calls made in one service  area by
subscribers from other service areas. In exchange for providing  roaming service
to customers of other cellular carriers,  the Company has traditionally  charged
premium rates to most of these other carriers,  who then frequently pass on some
or all of these premium  rates to their own  customers.  The Company's  Michigan
cellular  properties  include a significant  portion of the  interstate  highway
corridor  between  Chicago and  Detroit.  Its  Louisiana  properties  include an
east-west  interstate  highway  and  a  north-south   interstate  highway  which
intersect in its Louisiana  cellular  service area. Its  Mississippi  properties
include  two  east-west  interstate  highways  and  two  north-south  interstate
highways.  As indicated  elsewhere in Items 1 and 7 of this Report,  the Company
has increasingly  received pressure from other cellular  operators to reduce its
roaming rates. See "-Services, Customers and System Usage."

Marketing

      The Company markets its wireless  services  through  several  distribution
channels,  including its direct sales force, retail outlets owned by the Company
and  independent  agents.  All sales  employees and certain  independent  agents
solicit  customers  exclusively  for the Company.  Company  sales  employees are
compensated  by salary and  commission  and  independent  sales  agents are paid
commissions.   The  Company  advertises  its  services  through  various  means,
including  direct mail,  billboard,  magazine,  radio,  television and newspaper
advertisements.

      The  sales  and  marketing  costs of  obtaining  new  subscribers  include
advertising and a direct expense  applicable to most new subscribers,  either in
the form of a commission payment to an agent or an incentive payment to a direct
sales  employee.  In  addition,  the  Company  discounts  the  cost of  cellular
telephone  equipment,  and periodically runs promotions which waive certain fees
or provide some amount of free service to new  subscribers.  The average cost of
acquiring each new customer ($258 in 1999) remains one of the larger expenses in
conducting the Company's wireless  operations.  In recent years, the Company has
sought to lower this  average cost by focusing  more on its direct  distribution
channels.  The Company  opened its first retail  outlet in 1994,  and  currently
operates  128 such  outlets.  During  1999,  approximately  72% of new  cellular
customers were added through direct  distribution  channels,  up from 37% during
1996.

      As indicated  further below,  most of the Company's  cellular  markets are
located in rural,  suburban  or small  urban  areas,  and most of its  customers
typically  require  only  local or  regional  services.  The  Company  lacks the
facilities and national brand name necessary to compete effectively for business
customers  requiring  nationwide  services,  and the Company  does not  actively
target these customers in its marketing campaigns.

Services, Customers and System Usage

      There are a number of different types of cellular telephones, all of which
are currently  compatible with cellular systems nationwide.  The Company sells a
full range of  vehicle-mounted,  transportable,  and hand-held portable cellular
telephones.

      The Company charges its subscribers for access to its systems, for minutes
of use and for enhanced services,  such as voice mail. A subscriber may purchase
certain of these  services  separately  or may purchase  rate plans which bundle
these  services in  different  ways and are designed to fit  different  customer
requirements. While the Company historically has typically charged its customers
separately  for  custom-calling  features,  air time in excess  of the  packaged
amount, and toll calls, it currently offers plans which include features such as
unlimited  toll calls and unlimited  weekend  calling in certain  calling areas.
Custom-calling  features  provided  by  the  Company  include   call-forwarding,
call-waiting, three-way calling and no-answer transfer. The Company offers voice
message service in many of its markets.  In the Company's  markets where digital
service is  operational,  customers can subscribe to caller ID and other digital
enhancements.

      Cellular  customers  come from a wide range of  occupations  and typically
include a large  proportion of individuals who work outside of their office.  In
recent years,  the  individual  consumer  market has generated a majority of new
customer additions. A majority of the Company's net unit additions for 1999 were
prepaid  customers,  who  typically  use  cellular  service  less than  contract
customers.  The Company's  average monthly cellular service revenue per customer
declined to $53 in 1999 from $57 in 1998 and $61 in 1997.  Such average  revenue
per  customer  may  further  decline  (i) as market  penetration  increases  and
additional lower usage customers are activated, (ii) as the Company continues to
receive pressure from other cellular operators to reduce roaming rates and (iii)
as  competitive  pressures  from  current  and  future  wireless  communications
providers intensify. See "-Regulation and Competition."

      The  Company  has  entered  into  "roaming  agreements"   nationwide  with
operators  of other  cellular  systems  that  permit each  company's  respective
customers  to place or receive  calls  outside of their home  market  area.  The
charge to a  non-Company  customer  for this service has  traditionally  been at
premium rates, and is billed by the Company to the customer's  service provider,
which then bills the customer.  In most instances,  based on competitive factors
and  financial  considerations,  the Company  charges an amount to its customers
that is equal to or lower  than the  amount  actually  charged  by the  cellular
carrier  providing  the roaming  service.  In the past couple of years,  several
large  nationwide  cellular  providers  have  introduced  rate  plans that offer
roaming coverage  (provided  through other carriers) at the same rate as service
within the customer's home market area. To defray the cost of these plans, these
providers  have  exerted  substantial  pressure  on  other  cellular  providers,
including the Company,  to reduce their roaming  fees.  The Company  anticipates
that  competitive  factors and  industry  consolidation  will  continue to place
further pressure on charging  premium roaming rates. For additional  information
on roaming revenue, see "-Strategy."

      Roamer fraud, a cellular industry problem,  occurs when cellular telephone
equipment is  programmed  to conceal the true identity and location of the user.
The Company and the industry have implemented  extensive fraud control processes
in an attempt to minimize roamer fraud.

      Churn rate (the average  percentage of cellular  customers  that terminate
service each month) is an industry-wide  concern.  A significant  portion of the
churn in the Company's  markets is due to the Company  disconnecting  service to
cellular customers for nonpayment of their bills. In addition, the Company faces
substantial  competition  from  the  other  wireless  providers,  including  PCS
providers.  The Company's average monthly churn rate in its  majority-owned  and
operated  markets was 1.90% in 1999 and 2.23% in 1998. The Company is attempting
to lower its churn rate by increasing its proactive  customer  service  efforts,
offering  prepaid  service  and  implementing   additional   customer  retention
programs.

      During  recent  years,  the Company's  cellular  subsidiaries  experienced
strong subscriber growth in the fourth quarter,  primarily due to holiday season
sales.

      The following table summarizes,  among other things,  certain  information
about the Company's customers and market penetration:



Notes:

1.  Represents the number of systems in which the Company owned at least a 50%
    interest.The revenues and expenses of these markets, all of which are oper-
    ated by the Company, are included in the Company's consolidated operating
    revenues and operating expenses.
2.  Based on independent third-party population estimates for each respective
    year.
3.  Represents the approximate number of revenue-generating cellular telephones
    served by the cellular systems referred to in note 1.
4.  Computed by dividing the number of customers at the end of the period by
    the total population of systems referred to in note 1.
5.  Represents the average percentage of customers that are disconnected on a
    monthly basis.
6.  Represents the total number of systems that the Company operated, including
    systems in which it does not own a majority interest.
7.  Represents the approximate number of revenue-generating cellular telephones
    served by the cellular systems referred to in note 6.
8   Computed by dividing the number of customers at the end of the period by
    the total population of systems referred to in note 6.


The Company's Cellular Interests

     The Company  obtained the right to provide cellular service through (i) the
FCC's licensing  process described below,  under which it received  interests in
wireline licenses, and (ii) its acquisition program, under which it has acquired
interests in both wireline and non-wireline licenses. The table below sets forth
certain  information  with respect to the interests in cellular systems that the
Company owned as of December 31, 1999:



Notes:

1.  Based on 1999 independent third-party population estimates.
2.  Information provided to the best of the Company's knowledge. There is also
    at least one PCS competitor in each of the operated MSAs and certain of
    the operated RSAs.
3.  Markets not operated by the Company.
4.  Represents a non-wireline interest.
5.  The Company sold its entire interest in this market in February 2000.


Operations

      A  substantial  number of the  cellular  systems in MSAs  operated  by the
Company  are owned by  limited  partnerships  in which the  Company is a general
partner  ("MSA  Partnerships").  Most of  these  partnerships  are  governed  by
partnership  agreements  with  similar  terms,  including,  among other  things,
customary provisions  concerning capital  contributions,  sharing of profits and
losses,  and  dissolution  and  termination  of the  partnership.  Most of these
partnership agreements vest complete operational control of the partnership with
the general  partner.  The general  partner  typically  has the power to manage,
supervise  and  conduct  the  affairs  of the  partnership,  make all  decisions
appropriate in connection  with the business  purposes of the  partnership,  and
incur  obligations  and execute  agreements  on behalf of the  partnership.  The
general  partner also may make  decisions  regarding the time and amount of cash
contributions  and  distributions,   and  the  nature,   timing  and  extent  of
construction,  without the consent of the other partners.  The Company owns more
than 50% of all of the MSA Partnerships.

      A  substantial  number of the  cellular  systems in RSAs  operated  by the
Company are also owned by limited or general  partnerships  in which the Company
is either the  general  or  managing  partner  (the "RSA  Partnerships").  These
partnerships  are governed by  partnership  agreements  with  varying  terms and
provisions. In many of these partnerships,  the noncontrolling partners have the
right to vote on major issues such as the annual budget and system design.  In a
few of these  partnerships,  the Company's  management position is for a limited
term  (similar  to  a  management  contract)  and  the  other  partners  in  the
partnership  have the right to  change  managers,  with or  without  cause.  The
Company owns less than 50% of some of the RSA Partnerships.

      The  partnership   agreements  for  both  the  MSA  Partnerships  and  RSA
Partnerships generally contain provisions granting all partners a right of first
refusal in the event a partner desires to transfer a partnership interest.  This
restriction on transfer can under certain  circumstances  make these partnership
interests more difficult to sell to a third party.


PCS Operations

      The Company  holds  licenses to provide  personal  communication  services
("PCS")  in 54  Basic  Trading  Areas  in 12  states.  The  Company's  ownership
interests in these trading areas represents  approximately  9.9 million pops. In
late 1998, the Company  commenced  marketing PCS services in a limited number of
its Michigan markets as a fixed wireless alternative to wireline local telephone
services.  At December 31, 1999, the Company had approximately 670 PCS customers
located principally in three of its larger PCS Michigan markets.


Revenue

      The  following  table  reflects  the  major  revenue  categories  for  the
Company's wireless  operations as a percentage of wireless operating revenues in
1999, 1998 and 1997.  Virtually all of these revenues were derived from cellular
operations.



      For further information on these revenue categories, see "-Services,
Customers and System Usage."


Regulation and Competition

      As discussed below,  the FCC and various state public utility  commissions
regulate,   among  other  things,   the  licensing,   construction,   operation,
interconnection  arrangements,   sale  and  acquisition  of  cellular  telephone
systems.

      Competition between providers of wireless  communications  service in each
market is conducted principally on the basis of price, services and enhancements
offered,  the technical quality and coverage of the system,  and the quality and
responsiveness  of  customer  service.  As  discussed  below,   competition  has
intensified  in recent years in a substantial  number of the Company's  markets.
Under  applicable  law,  the Company is required to permit the  reselling of its
services. In certain larger markets and in certain market segments,  competition
from resellers may be  significant.  There is also  substantial  competition for
sales agents.  Certain of the Company's  competitors have substantially  greater
assets and resources than the Company.

      Cellular   licensing   process.   The  term  "MSA"  means  a  Metropolitan
Statistical Area for which the FCC has granted a cellular operating license. The
term "RSA" means a Rural  Service  Area for which the FCC has granted a cellular
operating  license.  During the 1980's and early  1990's,  the FCC  awarded  two
10-year  licenses  to  provide  cellular  service  in each  MSA and RSA  market.
Initially,  one license was  reserved for  companies  offering  local  telephone
service in the market (the  wireline  carrier) and one license was available for
firms unaffiliated with the local telephone company (the non-wireline  carrier).
Since mid-1986, the FCC has permitted telephone companies or their affiliates to
acquire  control of  non-wireline  licenses in markets in which they do not hold
interests in the wireline  license.  The FCC has issued a decision that grants a
renewal expectancy during the license renewal period to incumbent licensees that
substantially   comply  with  the  terms  and   conditions  of  their   cellular
authorizations  and the FCC's  regulations.  The  licenses  for the MSA  markets
operated  by the Company  were  initially  granted  between  1984 and 1987,  and
licenses for operated RSAs were initially  granted  between 1989 and 1991.  Thus
far, the Company has received  10-year  extensions  of all of its licenses  that
have become subject to renewal since their original grant dates.

      The  completion of an  acquisition  involving the transfer of control of a
cellular  system  requires prior FCC approval and, in certain cases,  receipt of
other federal and state  regulatory  approvals.  The  acquisition  of a minority
interest  generally  does not require FCC  approval.  Whenever  FCC  approval is
required,  any  interested  party may file a  petition  to  dismiss  or deny the
application for approval of the proposed transfer.

      In  addition to  regulation  by the FCC,  cellular  systems are subject to
certain Federal Aviation  Administration tower height regulations concerning the
siting and construction of cellular transmitter towers and antennas.

      Cellular  operators are also subject to state and local regulation in some
instances.   Although  the  FCC  has  pre-empted  the  states  from   exercising
jurisdiction  in  the  areas  of  licensing,   technical  standards  and  market
structure,  certain  states  require  cellular  operators  to be  certified.  In
addition,  some  state  authorities  regulate  certain  aspects  of  a  cellular
operator's  business,  including certain aspects of pricing,  the resale of long
distance  service to its customers,  the technical  arrangements and charges for
interconnection  with the  landline  network,  and the  transfer of interests in
cellular  systems.  The siting and  construction of the cellular  facilities may
also be subject to state or local zoning, land use and other local regulations.

      Developments  affecting wireless competition.  Competition in the wireless
communications  industry  has  increased  substantially  in recent  years due to
continued and rapid technological  advances in the communications field, coupled
with legislative and regulatory changes.

      Several  FCC  initiatives  over  the  past  decade  have  resulted  in the
allocation of additional radio spectrum or the issuance of licenses for emerging
mobile  communications  technologies  that are  competitive  with the  Company's
cellular  and  telephone  operations,   including  PCS.  Although  there  is  no
universally recognized definition of PCS, the term is generally used to refer to
wireless services to be provided by licensees  operating in the 1850 MHz to 1990
MHz radio frequency band using microcells and high-capacity  digital technology.
In 1996 and early 1997 the FCC auctioned up to six PCS licenses per market.  Two
30MHz  frequency  blocks  were  awarded  for each of the 51 Rand  McNally  Major
Trading Areas ("MTAs"),  while one 30MHz and three 10MHz  frequency  blocks were
awarded for each of the 493 Rand McNally Basic Trading Areas ("BTAs").

      PCS technology  permits PCS operators to offer wireless voice, data, image
and multimedia services.  The largest PCS providers commenced initial operations
in late 1996 and since then have aggressively  expanded their operations.  These
providers have initially focused on larger markets,  and have generally marketed
PCS as being a competitive  service to cellular.  Many of these  companies  have
aggressively  competed  for  customers  on the basis of price,  which has placed
downward  pressure on cellular  prices.  There is at least one PCS competitor in
each of the Company's operated MSAs and certain of its operated RSAs.

      In addition to PCS, current and prospective  users of cellular systems may
find  their  communication  needs  satisfied  by other  current  and  developing
technologies.  Several  years ago the FCC  authorized  the  licensees of certain
specialized  mobile radio  service  ("SMR")  systems  (which  historically  have
generally  been used by taxicabs and tow truck  operators)  to  configure  their
systems  into  digital  networks  that  operate in a manner  similar to cellular
systems.  Such systems are commonly referred to as enhanced  specialized  mobile
radio  service  ("ESMR")  systems.  The Company  believes  that ESMR systems are
operating in a few of its cellular markets. One  well-established  ESMR provider
has  constructed a nationwide  digital mobile  communications  system to compete
with  cellular  systems.  Other  similar  communication  services  that have the
technical  capability to handle wireless telephone calls may provide competition
in certain  markets,  although  these  services  currently  lack the  subscriber
capacity  of cellular  systems.  Paging or beeper  services  that  feature  text
message  and  data  display  as well as  tones  may be  adequate  for  potential
subscribers  who do not  need to  converse  directly  with  the  caller.  Mobile
satellite  systems,   in  which  transmissions  are  between  mobile  units  and
satellites, may ultimately be successful in obtaining market share from cellular
systems that communicate directly to land-based stations.

      In recent years,  several large cellular  providers have merged with other
companies or formed joint ventures. Several of these joint ventures pooled their
resources  to  develop   extensive  PCS  systems.   Many  current  or  potential
competitors of the Company have  substantially  greater  financial and marketing
resources than the Company.

      Although it is uncertain how PCS, SMR, ESMR,  mobile  satellites and other
emerging   technologies  will  ultimately   affect  the  Company,   the  Company
anticipates that it will continue to face increased competition in its operating
markets.  However,  management  believes  that  providing  digital  services and
applying new  microcellular  technologies  will permit its  cellular  systems to
provide  services  comparable with the emerging  technologies  described  above,
although  no  assurances  can be given  that  this will  happen  or that  future
technological  advances or  legislative  or  regulatory  changes will not create
additional sources of competition.

                                OTHER OPERATIONS

      The Company provides long distance, security monitoring, competitive local
exchange  services,  broadband,  call center,  cable  television and interactive
services in certain local and regional markets,  as well as certain printing and
related services. The results of these operations,  which accounted for 6.7% and
4.3%, respectively,  of the Company's consolidated revenues and operating income
during  1999,  are  reflected  for  financial  reporting  purposes in the "Other
operations" section in operating income.

      Long distance.  In 1996 the Company began marketing long distance  service
in all of its equal access telephone  operating areas. At December 31, 1999, the
Company  provided long distance  services to  approximately  303,000  customers.
Approximately  74% of the  Company's  long  distance  revenues  are derived from
service  provided  to  residential  customers.  Although  the  Company  owns and
operates long distance switches in LaCrosse, Wisconsin and San Marcos, Texas, it
anticipates  that most of its future  long  distance  service  revenues  will be
provided  by  reselling  service  purchased  from  other  facilities-based  long
distance providers.  The Company intends to continue to expand its long distance
business, principally through reselling arrangements.

      Security  monitoring.   The  Company  offers  24-hour  burglary  and  fire
monitoring  services  to  approximately  6,900  customers  in select  markets in
Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Texas and Ohio.

      Competitive  local exchange  services.  During the second quarter of 2000,
the  Company  plans to  begin  offering  competitive  local  exchange  telephone
services,  coupled  with long  distance,  wireless,  Internet  access  and other
Company services, to small to medium-sized businesses in Shreveport,  Louisiana.
The Company currently plans to target a total of ten initial new markets by year
end 2000,  and has  budgeted  $20  million of capital  expenditures  for 2000 to
construct  competitive local exchange networks.  The Company expects to incur an
operating loss in 2000 of  approximately  $4.0-$6.0  million in connection  with
providing these services.

      Broadband.  In connection  with its  long-range  plans to sell capacity to
other carriers in or near certain of its select markets,  the Company expects to
complete  construction  by mid-year 2000 of a 650- to 700-mile  fiber optic ring
connecting  several  communities in southern and central  Michigan.  The Company
expects to begin providing initial network services by the third quarter 2000.

      Call center. Over the past several years, the Company has provided certain
operator services for retail and wholesale markets. In January 2000, the Company
announced  that it would close its call center  operations by the second quarter
of 2000.

      Other. The Company also provides audiotext  services;  printing,  database
management and direct mail services;  and cable television services. The Company
is also in the process of developing  deployment  plans for 36 Local  Multipoint
Distribution  System licenses  acquired during the past two years, some of which
may be used to assist  the  Company  in  providing  competitive  local  exchange
services,  as  discussed  above.  From  time  to time  the  Company  also  makes
investments  in other  domestic or foreign  communications  companies,  the most
significant  of which to date is a minority  investment  in a start-up  Internet
service provider in India.

      Certain  service  subsidiaries  of the Company  provide  installation  and
maintenance  services,  materials  and  supplies,  and  managerial,   technical,
accounting and  administrative  services to the telephone and wireless operating
subsidiaries. In addition, the Company provides and bills management services to
subsidiaries and in certain instances makes interest-bearing advances to finance
construction  of  plant,   purchases  of  equipment  or  acquisitions  of  other
businesses. These transactions are recorded by the Company's regulated telephone
subsidiaries  at their cost to the extent  permitted by regulatory  authorities.
Intercompany  profit on transactions  with regulated  affiliates is limited to a
reasonable  return on investment and has not been  eliminated in connection with
consolidating the results of operations of CenturyTel and its subsidiaries. Such
intercompany profit is reflected in operating income in "Other operations".


                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

      This report on Form 10-K and other  documents  filed by the Company  under
the federal  securities laws include,  and future oral or written  statements or
press  releases  of  the  Company  and  its  management  may  include,   certain
forward-looking statements, including without limitation statements with respect
to  the  Company's   anticipated  future  operating  and  financial  performance
(including  the  impact  of  pending   acquisitions),   financial  position  and
liquidity, growth opportunities and growth rates, business prospects, regulatory
and competitive outlook,  investment and expenditure plans,  investment results,
financing  opportunities and sources  (including the impact of financings on the
Company's financial position,  financial performance or credit ratings), pricing
plans, strategic alternatives, business strategies, and other similar statements
of  expectations  or objectives that are highlighted by words such as "expects,"
"anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "projects," "seeks," "estimates,"
"should,"  and "may," and  variations  thereof  and  similar  expressions.  Such
forward-looking statements are inherently speculative and are based upon several
assumptions concerning future events, many of which are outside of the Company's
control.  The Company's  forward-looking  statements,  and the assumptions  upon
which such statements are based, are subject to  uncertainties  that could cause
the Company's actual results to differ  materially from such  statements.  These
uncertainties include but are not limited to those set forth below:

      o the effects of ongoing deregulation in the  telecommunications  industry
as a result of the 1996 Act and other similar federal and state  legislation and
federal and state regulations enacted  thereunder,  including without limitation
(i) greater than  anticipated  interconnection  requests or  competition  in the
Company's   predominately  rural  local  exchange  telephone  markets  resulting
therefrom,  (ii) greater than anticipated  reductions in revenues  received from
the Universal  Service Fund or other current or future federal and state support
funds designed to compensate  LECs that provide  services in high-cost  markets,
(iii) the final outcome of regulatory and judicial  proceedings  with respect to
interconnection agreements and access charge reforms and (iv) future judicial or
regulatory actions taken in response to the 1996 Act.

      o the effects of greater than anticipated competition from PCS, SMR, ESMR,
mobile  satellites or other wireless  companies,  including  without  limitation
competition  requiring  new  pricing  or  marketing  strategies  or new  product
offerings,  and the attendant  risk that the Company will not be able to respond
on a timely or profitable basis.

      o possible changes in the demand for the Company's  products and services,
including without  limitation (i) lower than anticipated  demand for traditional
or premium telephone services or for additional access lines per household, (ii)
lower than anticipated demand for wireless telephone services, whether caused by
changes in economic  conditions,  technology,  competition,  health  concerns or
otherwise,  (iii)  lower  than  anticipated  demand  for the  Company's  digital
subscriber  line  Internet  access  services  and (iv)  reduced  demand  for the
Company's access or billing and collection services.

      o the  Company's  ability to  successfully  introduce  new  offerings on a
timely and  cost-effective  basis,  including  without  limitation the Company's
ability to (i) expand  successfully its long distance and Internet  offerings to
new  markets   (including  those  to  be  acquired  in  connection  with  future
acquisitions),  (ii) offer bundled service  packages on terms  attractive to its
customers and (iii) successfully  initiate  competitive local exchange,  PCS and
data services in its targeted markets.

      o the risks  inherent in rapid  technological  change,  including  without
limitation (i) the lack of assurance that the Company's ongoing wireless network
improvements  will be sufficient to meet or exceed the  capabilities and quality
of  competing  networks,  (ii)  technological  developments  that could make the
Company's analog and digital wireless networks  uncompetitive or obsolete,  such
as the risk that the Time Division  Multiple  Access digital  technology used by
the Company will be  uncompetitive  with  existing or future  technologies,  and
(iii) the risk that  technologies  will not be  developed  by the  Company  on a
timely or cost-effective basis or perform according to expectations.

      o the Company's ability to timely consummate its pending  acquisitions and
effectively  manage its  growth,  including  without  limitation  the  Company's
ability  to  (i)  integrate   newly-acquired   operations   into  the  Company's
operations,  (ii) attract and retain  technological  and other key  personnel to
work at the Company's Monroe,  Louisiana headquarters or regional offices, (iii)
achieve projected economies of scale and cost savings,  (iv) meet pro forma cash
flow projections developed by management in valuing  newly-acquired  businesses,
(v) upgrade its billing and other information systems and (vi) otherwise monitor
its operations,  costs, regulatory compliance,  and service quality and maintain
other necessary internal controls.

      o  regulatory  limits on the  Company's  ability  to change its prices for
telephone services in response to competitive pressures.

      o any difficulties in the Company's ability to expand through attractively
priced acquisitions,  whether caused by financing constraints, a decrease in the
pool of attractive target companies,  or competition for acquisitions from other
interested buyers.

      o higher  than  anticipated  wireless  operating  costs due to churn or to
fraudulent uses of the Company's  networks,  or lower than anticipated  wireless
revenues due to reduced roaming fees.

      o the lack of assurance that the Company can compete  effectively  against
better-capitalized competitors.

      o  the future unavailability of SFAS 71 to the Company's telephone
subsidiaries.

      o  the effects of more general factors, including without limitation:

         . changes in general industry and market conditions and growth rates

         . changes in interest rates or other general national, regional or
           local economic conditions

         . changes in legislation, regulation or public policy, including
           changes in federal rural financing programs

         . unanticipated increases in capital, operating or administrative
           costs, or the impact of new business opportunities requiring
           significant up-front investments

         . the continued availability of financing in amounts, and on terms
           and conditions, necessary to support the Company's operations

         . changes in the Company's relationships with vendors

         . changes in the Company's senior debt ratings

         . unfavorable outcomes of regulatory or legal proceedings, including
           rate proceedings and environmental proceedings

         . losses or unfavorable returns on the Company's investments in other
           communications  companies

         . delays in the construction of the Company's networks

         . changes in accounting  policies or practices adopted voluntarily or
           as required by generally accepted accounting principles.

      For additional information,  see the description of the Company's business
included  above, as well as Item 7 of this report.  Due to these  uncertainties,
you are cautioned not to place undue reliance upon the Company's forward-looking
statements,  which speak only as of the date hereof.  The Company  undertakes no
obligation  to update or revise any of its  forward-looking  statements  for any
reason.


                                  OTHER MATTERS

      The Company has certain obligations based on federal, state and local laws
relating to the protection of the environment.  Costs of compliance through 1999
have not been  material and the Company  currently has no reason to believe that
such costs will become material.

      For additional  information  concerning the business and properties of the
Company,  see notes 3, 5, 11, 14, 18 and 20 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements set forth in Item 8 elsewhere herein.

Item 2.       Properties.

      The Company's  properties  consist  principally  of (i)  telephone  lines,
central office equipment,  telephone instruments and related equipment, and land
and buildings related to telephone operations,  and (ii) switching and cell site
equipment related to cellular telephone operations.  As of December 31, 1999 and
1998, the Company's gross property,  plant and equipment of  approximately  $4.2
billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, consisted of the following:



      "Cable and wire" facilities  consist  primarily of buried cable and aerial
cable,  poles,  wire,  conduit and drops.  "Central office  equipment"  consists
primarily of switching  equipment,  circuit  equipment  and related  facilities.
"General support" consists  primarily of land,  buildings,  tools,  furnishings,
fixtures,     motor     vehicles     and    work     equipment.     "Information
origination/termination  equipment"  consists  primarily  of  premise  equipment
(private branch exchanges and telephones) for official company use. "Cell sites"
consist primarily of radio frequency channel equipment,  switching equipment and
towers. "Construction in progress" includes property of the foregoing categories
that has not been placed in service because it is still under construction.

      Most of the properties of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are subject
to mortgages securing the debt of such companies. The Company owns substantially
all of the central office buildings, local administrative buildings, warehouses,
and storage facilities used in its telephone operations. The Company leases most
of the offices used in its wireless operations; certain of its transmitter sites
are leased while others are owned by the Company. For further information on the
location  and type of the  Company's  properties,  see the  descriptions  of the
Company's telephone and wireless operations in Item 1.

Item 3.       Legal Proceedings.

      From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation incidental to its
business,  including administrative hearings of state public utility commissions
relating  primarily  to  rate  making,  actions  relating  to  employee  claims,
occasional grievance hearings before labor regulatory agencies and miscellaneous
third party tort actions. Currently, there are no material legal proceedings.

Item 4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

     Not applicable.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     Information  concerning  Executive Officers,  set forth at Item 10 in Part
III hereof, is incorporated in Part I of this Report by reference.

                                     PART II

Item 5.       Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
              Matters.

     CenturyTel's  common stock is listed on the New York Stock  Exchange and is
traded  under the symbol CTL.  The  following  table sets forth the high and low
sale  prices,  along  with the  quarterly  dividends,  for each of the  quarters
indicated:




     Common stock dividends  during 1999 and 1998 were paid each quarter.  As of
February 29, 2000,  there were  approximately  6,000  stockholders  of record of
CenturyTel's common stock.

Item 6.       Selected Financial Data.

     The following table presents certain selected  consolidated  financial data
as of and for each of the years ended in the five-year period ended December 31,
1999:



Selected Balance Sheet Data



      The following table presents certain selected consolidated  operating data
as of the end of each of the years in the  five-year  period ended  December 31,
1999:



      See Items 1 and 2 in Part I and notes 1, 5 and 11 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements  set  forth  in Item 8  elsewhere  herein  for  additional
information.

Item 7.       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
              and Results of Operations


                             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

      CenturyTel,  Inc.  and its  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  is a  regional
diversified communications company engaged primarily in providing local exchange
telephone services and wireless  communications  services. At December 31, 1999,
the Company's local exchange telephone  subsidiaries  operated over 1.27 million
telephone access lines primarily in rural,  suburban and small urban areas in 20
states, and the Company's majority-owned and operated wireless entities had more
than  707,000  subscribers.  On December  1, 1998,  the  Company  acquired  from
affiliates  of  Ameritech  Corporation  ("Ameritech")  telephone  and  directory
operations  serving  approximately  86,000  access lines in northern and central
Wisconsin for approximately  $221 million cash. On December 1, 1997, the Company
significantly expanded its operations by acquiring Pacific Telecom, Inc. ("PTI")
for $1.503 billion cash and assumed PTI's debt of approximately $725 million. As
a result of this  acquisition,  the Company acquired (i) over 660,000  telephone
access lines, (ii) over 88,000 cellular  subscribers and (iii) various wireless,
cable  television  and  other  communications  assets.  The  operations  of  the
Ameritech and PTI properties are included in the Company's results of operations
beginning on the respective  dates of acquisition.  See Acquisitions and Note 11
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During
the three years ended December 31, 1999, the Company has acquired  various other
telephone,  wireless  and  other  operations,  the  impact of which has not been
material to the financial position or results of operations of the Company.

      On May 14, 1999, the Company sold  substantially  all of its  Alaska-based
operations  serving  approximately  134,900  telephone  access  lines  and 3,000
cellular  subscribers.  On June 1,  1999,  the  Company  sold the  assets of its
Brownsville and McAllen,  Texas cellular operations serving  approximately 7,500
cellular  subscribers.  The operations of these disposed properties are included
in  the  Company's   results  of  operations  up  to  the  respective  dates  of
disposition.

      The net income of the  Company  for 1999 was $239.8  million,  compared to
$228.8 million during 1998 and $256.0 million during 1997.  Diluted earnings per
share  for 1999 were  $1.70  compared  to $1.64 in 1998 and  $1.87 in 1997.  The
Company's net income (and diluted earnings per share) from recurring  operations
for 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $238.3 million ($1.69),  $198.2 million ($1.42), and
$149.6 million ($1.09), respectively.



      Contributions to operating  revenues and operating income by the Company's
telephone, wireless and other operations for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1999 were as follows:



      As a  result  of the  Company's  December  1997  acquisition  of PTI,  the
percentage  of the  Company's  total  operating  revenues and  operating  income
contributed by its telephone operations significantly increased during 1998.

      In  addition  to  historical  information,   management's  discussion  and
analysis  includes  certain  forward-looking  statements  regarding  events  and
financial  trends that may affect the  Company's  future  operating  results and
financial position. Such forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties
that could cause the Company's  actual  results to differ  materially  from such
statements.  Such  uncertainties  include but are not limited to: the effects of
ongoing deregulation in the telecommunications  industry; the effects of greater
than anticipated  competition in the Company's markets;  possible changes in the
demand  for the  Company's  products  and  services;  the  Company's  ability to
successfully  introduce new offerings on a timely and cost-effective  basis; the
risks inherent in rapid  technological  change;  the Company's ability to timely
consummate its pending acquisitions and effectively manage its growth, including
integrating  newly acquired  properties  into the Company's  operations,  hiring
adequate numbers of qualified staff and  successfully  upgrading its billing and
other  information  systems;  and the effects of more  general  factors  such as
changes in general market or economic  conditions or in legislation,  regulation
or public  policy.  These and other  uncertainties  related to the  business are
described in greater  detail in Item 1 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form
10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1999. You are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on these  forward-looking  statements,  which speak only as of the date
hereof.   The  Company   undertakes   no   obligation   to  update  any  of  its
forward-looking statements for any reason.

TELEPHONE OPERATIONS

      The Company conducts its telephone operations in rural, suburban and small
urban communities in 20 states. As of December 31, 1999, approximately 84% of
the Company's 1.27 million access lines were in Wisconsin, Washington, Michigan,
Louisiana,  Colorado, Ohio, Oregon and Montana. The operating revenues, expenses
and income of the Company's  telephone  operations  for 1999,  1998 and 1997 are
summarized below.



Local service revenues

      Local service  revenues are derived from the  provision of local  exchange
telephone  services in the Company's  service areas. Of the $21.8 million (6.6%)
increase  in local  service  revenues  in  1999,  $21.1  million  was due to the
acquisition  of the Ameritech  properties  which was more than offset by a $22.8
million  decrease  attributable  to the  sale  of  the  Company's  Alaska  based
operations.  The  remaining  $23.5  million  increase was due to a $15.6 million
increase due to an internal  growth in the number of customer access lines and a
$4.1 million increase due to the increased provision of custom calling features.
The $184.1 million  (124.8%)  increase in such revenues in 1998 included  $171.0
million  from  acquired  properties,  of which  $169.2  million was from the PTI
properties;  $10.7  million due to an internal  growth in the number of customer
access  lines and a $3.0  million  increase  due to the  increased  provision of
custom calling features.  Internal access line growth during 1999, 1998 and 1997
was 4.8%, 4.7% and 4.4%, respectively.

Network access revenues

      Network  access  revenues are  primarily  derived from the charges to long
distance  companies  and  other  customers  for  access to the  Company's  local
exchange  carrier  ("LEC")  networks in connection  with the  completion of long
distance  telephone  calls.  These access  charges are based on tariffed  access
rates filed with the Federal  Communications  Commission  ("FCC") for interstate
services  and  with  the  respective  state  regulatory  agency  for  intrastate
services.  Certain of the Company's interstate network access revenues are based
on access  charges  filed  directly with the FCC; the remainder of such revenues
are derived under revenue sharing  arrangements  with other LECs administered by
the National Exchange Carrier  Association.  Intrastate  network access revenues
are based on access  charges or are derived under revenue  sharing  arrangements
with other LECs.

      Network access revenues  increased $24.4 million (3.9%) in 1999 and $310.3
million (97.2%) in 1998 due to the following factors:



Other revenues

      Other  revenues  include   revenues  related  to  (i)  leasing,   selling,
installing,   maintaining  and  repairing  customer  premise  telecommunications
equipment and wiring ("CPE  services"),  (ii)  providing  billing and collection
services for long distance carriers,  (iii)  participating in the publication of
local  directories  and (iv)  providing  Internet  access.  Of the $4.8  million
increase  in other  revenues  in 1999,  $5.0  million  was  attributable  to the
Ameritech  properties.  Such  increase  was more than offset by a $12.0  million
decrease due to the sale of the Alaska  properties.  The  remaining  increase of
$11.8 million was primarily due to a $5.0 million and $6.4 million increase from
the provision of Internet access and CPE services,  respectively. Other revenues
increased   $66.6  million  in  1998,   which  included  $60.7  million  due  to
acquisitions.  The  remainder  of the increase in 1998 was due to a $3.9 million
increase from the provision of Internet access and a $3.5 million  increase from
the provision of CPE services.

Operating expenses

      Plant  operations  expenses  during 1999 and 1998 increased  $17.7 million
(7.2%) and $134.9 million (122.4%),  respectively. Of the $17.7 million increase
in  1999,  $13.2  million  was  attributable  to the  properties  acquired  from
Ameritech,  which was more than offset by a $23.7  million  decrease  due to the
sale  of the  Alaska  properties.  The  remaining  $28.2  million  increase  was
primarily  due to a $7.4 million  increase in access  expenses  primarily due to
changes in revenue  settlement  methods of certain  telephone  subsidiaries in a
limited  number of states;  a $5.6  million  increase in repair and  maintenance
expenses; a $5.6 million increase in engineering and network expenses and a $2.0
million increase in expenses associated with providing Internet access. Expenses
incurred  by the PTI and  Ameritech  operations  in 1998  accounted  for  $120.4
million  of the  1998  increase.  The  remainder  of the  increase  in 1998  was
primarily due to an increase in salaries and benefits.

      Customer  operations,  corporate and other expenses increased $2.1 million
(.8%) in 1999 and $118.5  million  (90.2%)  in 1998.  The  Ameritech  properties
contributed  $12.5  million of the 1999  increase.  Such  increase was more than
offset by a $19.8 million decrease due to the sale of the Alaska properties. The
remaining  $9.4  million  increase in 1999 was  primarily  due to a $6.5 million
increase in contract  labor  expenses  attributable  to readying  the  Company's
systems  to be  Year  2000  compliant;  a  $2.8  million  increase  in  expenses
associated with the provision of CPE services and a $3.0 million increase in the
provision for doubtful accounts. Such increases in 1999 were partially offset by
a $5.9 million decrease in salaries and benefits  primarily due to a decrease in
the number of non-operational personnel. Of the $118.5 million increase in 1998,
$110.7 million was applicable to the PTI properties.  Exclusive of acquisitions,
the  remainder  of the  1998  increase  was due to a $4.3  million  increase  in
salaries and benefits and a $2.0 million increase in marketing expenses.

      Depreciation  and  amortization  increased $12.6 million (4.8%) and $147.2
million  (127.2%) in 1999 and 1998,  respectively.  Of the 1999 increase,  $17.1
million was  attributable to the properties  acquired from Ameritech,  which was
more  than  offset by a $17.8  million  decrease  due to the sale of the  Alaska
properties.  Approximately $136.6 million of the 1998 increase was applicable to
acquiring and operating PTI (of which $27.9 million represented  amortization of
goodwill) and $1.3 million was  applicable to the former  Ameritech  properties.
Exclusive of acquisitions, depreciation expense included nonrecurring additional
depreciation  charges  approved by  regulators  in certain  jurisdictions  which
aggregated  $10.7  million in 1999 and $6.2 million in 1998.  In  addition,  the
Company obtained  increased  depreciation rates in certain  jurisdictions  which
increased depreciation expense by $2.2 million in 1999 and $1.1 million in 1998.
The remainder of the increases in depreciation and amortization in 1999 and 1998
were due to higher levels of plant in service.  The composite  depreciation rate
for the Company's  regulated  telephone  properties,  including  the  additional
depreciation charges, was 7.0% for 1999, 6.9% for 1998 and 7.4% for 1997.

Other

      For additional information regarding certain matters that have impacted or
may impact the Company's telephone operations, see Regulation and Competition.


WIRELESS OPERATIONS AND INCOME FROM UNCONSOLIDATED CELLULAR ENTITIES



      The Company's  wireless  operations  (discussed below) reflect 100% of the
results of  operations  of the  cellular  entities  in which the  Company  has a
majority ownership  interest.  The minority interest owners' share of the income
of such entities is reflected in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income
as an expense in  "Minority  interest."  See Minority  Interest  for  additional
information. The Company's share of earnings from the cellular entities in which
it has less than a majority  interest is accounted  for using the equity  method
and is reflected in the Company's  Consolidated  Statements of Income in "Income
from unconsolidated  cellular entities." See Income from Unconsolidated Cellular
Entities for additional information.

WIRELESS OPERATIONS

      Substantially  all of the  Company's  wireless  customers  are  located in
Michigan, Louisiana,  Wisconsin,  Mississippi, Texas and Arkansas. The operating
revenues,  expenses and income of the Company's  wireless  operations  for 1999,
1998 and 1997 are summarized below.



Operating revenues

      Service  revenues  include monthly  service fees for providing  access and
airtime to  customers,  service fees for  providing  airtime to other  carriers'
customers roaming through the Company's service areas and toll revenue.

      Of the $12.8 million  increase in service  revenues in 1999, $11.3 million
was due to an increase in roaming  usage  primarily  attributable  to  increased
minutes  of use which was  partially  offset by  reduced  rates.  Local  service
revenues  increased  $5.9 million due to a growth in the number of customers and
increased  minutes of use, both of which were partially offset by reduced rates.
Such  increases  were  partially  offset by a $6.3  million  decrease due to the
Company's sale of its Texas and Alaska cellular properties. Of the $96.6 million
increase  in  service  revenues  in 1998,  $76.1  million  was  attributable  to
acquisitions  of  properties.  The  remainder  of the 1998  increase  in service
revenues was primarily due to a $10.9 million increase in roaming revenues and a
$9.4 million increase in local service revenues.

      The  following  table  illustrates  the growth in the  Company's  wireless
customer base in its majority-owned markets:



      The average monthly  service  revenue per customer  declined to $53 during
1999 from $57 in 1998 and $61 in 1997 due to price  reductions and the continued
trend  that a  higher  percentage  of  new  customers  tend  to be  lower  usage
customers.  A majority of the Company's net unit additions for 1999 were prepaid
customers. The average monthly service revenue per prepaid customer has been and
is expected to continue to be less than the average monthly service revenues per
contract customer.  The average monthly service revenue per customer may further
decline (i) as market penetration increases and additional lower usage customers
are  activated;  (ii) as the Company  continues to receive  pressure  from other
cellular  operators to reduce roaming rates and (iii) as  competitive  pressures
from current and future wireless communications providers intensify. The Company
is responding to such  competitive  pressures by, among other things,  modifying
certain of its price plans and implementing  certain other plans and promotions,
most all of which are likely to result in lower  average  revenue per  customer.
The Company will continue to focus on customer  service and attempt to stimulate
usage and customer  growth by promoting  the  availability  of certain  enhanced
services and by improving the quality of its service through the construction of
additional cell sites and other enhancements to its system.

Operating expenses

      Cost of equipment  sold  increased  $4.4 million  (26.0%) in 1999 and $2.4
million  (16.5%) in 1998  primarily  due to an  increase in the number of phones
sold.

      System operations expenses decreased $3.2 million (5.3%) in 1999 primarily
due to a $3.8 million decrease in the amounts paid to other carriers for service
provided to the  Company's  customers  who roam in the other  carriers'  service
areas  primarily due to a decrease in roaming rates; a $1.7 million  decrease in
toll costs; and a $1.9 million  decrease in expenses  attributable to operations
sold  during  1999.  Such  decreases  were  partially  offset by a $4.3  million
increase in expenses  associated  with operating a greater number of cell sites.
The $12.5 million  (26.2%)  increase in system  operations  expenses in 1998 was
primarily due to $15.6 million of expenses  attributable to  acquisitions.  Such
increase was partially  offset by a $6.1 million decrease in the amounts paid to
other carriers for service  provided to the Company's  customers who roam in the
other carriers' service areas primarily due to a decrease in roaming rates.

      The Company  operated  711 cell sites at December  31, 1999 in entities in
which it had a majority  interest,  compared to 644 at December 31, 1998 and 558
at December 31, 1997.

     General,  administrative  and  customer  service  expenses  decreased  $1.8
million  (2.2%),  of which $9.0  million was  attributable  to a decrease in the
provision for doubtful  accounts.  Such decrease was  substantially  offset by a
$2.9 million increase in customer service  expenses;  a $2.1 million increase in
contract labor  expenses  associated  with readying the Company's  systems to be
Year 2000 compliant;  and a $3.4 million increase in general office expenses. Of
the  $18.8  million  (30.1%)  increase  in  1998  expenses,  $13.4  million  was
attributable  to  expenses  of  entities  acquired.  The  remainder  of the 1998
increase was  primarily  due to a $2.1  million  increase in the  provision  for
doubtful accounts and a $1.8 million increase in customer service expenses.

      Churn rate (the percentage of cellular  customers that terminate  service)
is an  industry-wide  concern.  The Company faces  substantial  competition from
other  wireless  providers,  including  those offering  Personal  Communications
Services ("PCS").  A significant  portion of the churn in the Company's cellular
markets is due to the Company disconnecting service to customers for nonpayment.
The  Company's  average  monthly churn rate in its  majority-owned  and operated
markets was 1.90% in 1999, 2.23% in 1998 and 2.31% in 1997.

      Sales  and  marketing  expenses  increased  $3.9  million  (6.8%)  in 1999
primarily due to a $4.0 million  increase in costs incurred in selling  products
and  services in retail  locations  and a $2.0 million  increase in  advertising
expenses.  Such increases were partially  offset by a $2.1 million  reduction in
commissions paid to agents for selling services to new customers  primarily as a
result of fewer  cellular  units being added through this  distribution  channel
during 1999 as compared to 1998 and a $1.2  million  decrease in expenses due to
the  Company's  sale of its Texas and  Alaska  properties.  Sales and  marketing
expenses  increased $3.8 million (7.1%) in 1998 primarily due to $9.7 million of
expenses of acquired  entities;  a $2.9  million  increase in costs  incurred in
selling products and services in retail locations and a $2.4 million increase in
advertising  expenses.  Such increases were partially  offset by a $10.6 million
reduction in  commissions  paid to agents for selling  services to new customers
primarily  as a result of fewer  units  being added  through  this  distribution
channel during 1998 as compared to 1997.

      Depreciation and  amortization  increased $6.2 million (10.0%) in 1999, of
which $4.0 million was due to an increase in  amortization  of  intangibles  and
$2.5  million was  attributable  to a higher  level of plant in service.  Of the
$21.2  million  (51.5%)  increase in 1998,  $14.5  million was  attributable  to
acquisitions.  The  remainder of the 1998  increase was  primarily due to higher
levels of plant in service.

Other

      For additional information regarding certain matters that have impacted or
may impact the Company's wireless operations, see Regulation and Competition.

OTHER OPERATIONS

      Other operations includes the results of operations of subsidiaries of the
Company which are not included in the telephone or wireless segments  including,
but not limited to, the Company's  non-regulated long distance operations,  call
center  operations and security  monitoring  business.  The operating  revenues,
expenses and income of the Company's  other  operations for 1999,  1998 and 1997
are summarized below.


      The 1999 and 1998 increases in long distance revenues of $30.1 million and
$16.5 million,  respectively,  were primarily  attributable to the growth in the
number of customers.  The number of long  distance  customers as of December 31,
1999, 1998, and 1997 was 303,700, 226,700, and 172,000,  respectively.  The $4.6
million  decrease in call center  revenues in 1998 was primarily due to the loss
of two major  customers in the fourth  quarter of 1997.  The  increases in other
revenues in 1998 of $2.6 million was primarily  attributable  to the acquisition
of cable television properties in the PTI acquisition and the acquisition of two
security  monitoring  businesses,   partially  offset  by  a  loss  of  revenues
applicable to entities sold during 1997.

      Operating  expenses in 1999 increased $29.4 million (48.4%)  primarily due
to (i) an increase of $17.8 million in expenses of the  Company's  long distance
operations  primarily due to the increased  minutes of use due to an increase in
the number of long distance  customers,  (ii) a $6.7 million increase associated
with the Company's call center  operations and (iii) a $3.8 million  increase in
expenses due to the expansion of the  Company's  security  monitoring  and fiber
network  businesses.  In January 2000, the Company announced that it would close
its third party call center  operations  by the end of the first  quarter  2000.
Included in total operating  expenses for 1999 is a $2.7 million charge to write
down the assets of the call center to estimated net realizable value.

      Operating  expenses  in 1998  increased  due to (i) an  increase  of $13.6
million in expenses of the Company's  long distance  operations due primarily to
an increase in customers and (ii) $6.6 million of operating expenses  applicable
to  acquisitions.  Such  increases  were  substantially  offset by  decreases in
operating expenses because (i) 1997 included $9.2 million of costs applicable to
entities  sold  during  1997 and (ii) the  amount of  intercompany  profit  with
regulated  affiliates  (the  recognition of which in accordance  with regulatory
accounting  principles acts to offset operating expenses) increased $5.8 million
as a result of the acquisition of PTI.

      The Company  anticipates that the growth of operating income for its other
operations will slow in future periods as it incurs increasingly larger expenses
in connection with expanding its security  monitoring  business and its emerging
fiber network and competitive local exchange carrier businesses.

      Certain  of  the  Company's  service   subsidiaries   provide  managerial,
operational,  technical,  accounting  and  administrative  services,  along with
materials and supplies, to the Company's telephone  subsidiaries.  In accordance
with regulatory  accounting,  intercompany profit on transactions with regulated
affiliates has not been eliminated in connection with  consolidating the results
of  operations of the Company.  When the regulated  operations of the Company no
longer  qualify  for  the  application  of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards  No. 71 ("SFAS 71"),  "Accounting  for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation," such intercompany profit will be eliminated in subsequent financial
statements, the primary result of which will be a decrease in operating expenses
applicable to the Company's  telephone  operations  and an increase in operating
expenses   applicable  to  the  Company's  other   operations.   The  amount  of
intercompany  profit with  regulated  affiliates  which was not  eliminated  was
approximately  $14.0 million,  $14.4 million and $8.9 million in 1999,  1998 and
1997,  respectively.  For  additional  information  applicable  to SFAS 71,  see
Regulation and  Competition - Other Matters and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

GAIN ON SALE OR EXCHANGE OF ASSETS, NET

      In 1999, the Company  recorded  pre-tax gains  aggregating  $62.8 million.
Approximately  $10.4 million of the pre-tax gains ($6.7 million after-tax;  $.04
per diluted share) was due to the sale of the Company's  remaining common shares
of MCIWorldCom,  Inc.  ("WorldCom").  Approximately $39.6 million of the pre-tax
gains ($7.8 million  after-tax loss; $.05 per diluted share) was due to the sale
of the  Company's  Brownsville  and  McAllen,  Texas  cellular  properties.  The
remainder of the gains in 1999 was  primarily  due to an $11.6  million  pre-tax
gain ($7.6  million  after-tax;  $.05 per diluted  share) due to the sale of the
Company's shares of common stock of Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. See Note 14
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

      In 1998 the Company recorded net pre-tax gains  aggregating  $49.9 million
($30.5  million  after-tax;  $.22  per  diluted  share)  primarily  due  to  the
conversion  of its  investment  in the common stock of Brooks Fiber  Properties,
Inc.  ("Brooks")  into common stock of WorldCom,  the subsequent sale of 750,000
shares  of  WorldCom  stock,   and  the  sale  of  minority   interests  in  two
non-strategic cellular entities.

      In the second  quarter of 1997,  the Company sold its  competitive  access
subsidiary to Brooks in exchange for approximately 4.3 million shares of Brooks'
common  stock and  recorded a pre-tax  gain of  approximately  $71 million  ($46
million  after-tax;  $.34 per diluted share).  In November 1997 the Company sold
approximately 3.8 million shares of Brooks' stock and recorded a pre-tax gain of
approximately $108 million ($66 million after-tax; $.48 per diluted share).

INTEREST EXPENSE

      Interest  expense  decreased  $17.0  million  in 1999  primarily  due to a
reduction in outstanding indebtedness. Interest expense increased $111.1 million
in 1998  primarily  due to $89.7 million of interest  expense on the  borrowings
used to finance the PTI and Ameritech acquisitions and $23.2 million of interest
expense applicable to debt assumed from PTI.

INCOME FROM UNCONSOLIDATED CELLULAR ENTITIES

      Earnings from unconsolidated cellular entities, net of the amortization of
associated  goodwill,  decreased  $5.2  million  (15.8%)  primarily  due  to the
Company's  proportionate  share  ($6.9  million)  of a non-cash  charge that was
recorded by a cellular entity in which the Company owns a minority interest. The
1998  increase of $5.1  million  (18.3%) was  primarily  due to $7.3  million of
earnings of  unconsolidated  cellular  entities acquired in the PTI acquisition.
Such increase was partially offset by a $2.5 million decrease due to the sale of
the Company's  minority interest in two  non-strategic  cellular entities during
the second quarter of 1998.

MINORITY INTEREST

      Minority  interest is the  expense  recorded by the Company to reflect the
minority interest owners' share of the earnings of the Company's  majority-owned
and  operated  cellular  entities  and  majority-owned  subsidiaries.   Minority
interest increased $15.1 million during 1999, substantially all of which relates
to the minority partners' share of the gain on sale of assets of the Brownsville
and McAllen, Texas cellular properties. Of the $7.3 million increase in minority
interest in 1998, $2.0 million was associated with entities  acquired in the PTI
acquisition.  The  remainder of the increase was  primarily due to the increased
profitability of the Company's majority-owned and operated cellular entities.

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE

      Other income and expense increased $3.9 million in 1999, substantially all
of which relates to favorable non-recurring items recorded in 1999.

INCOME TAX EXPENSE

     The Company's effective income tax rate was 44.1%, 41.0% and 37.3% in 1999,
1998 and 1997,  respectively.  Exclusive  of the effect of income tax expense on
asset sales, the effective  income tax rate was 39.0%,  41.3% and 37.3% in 1999,
1998 and 1997,  respectively.  Such decrease in the effective  rate for 1999 was
primarily due to two factors.  First,  the Company's  1999 sale of its Texas and
Alaska operations resulted in a decrease in the amount of amortization of excess
cost of net assets acquired  (goodwill) that is non-deductible for tax purposes.
Second, the Company recorded a $5.3 million state tax benefit relating to a loss
carryback  that will be utilized to recoup  taxes paid in a previous  year.

     The  increase  in the  effective  rate in  1998  was  primarily  due to the
increase in  non-deductible  amortization  of excess cost of net assets acquired
attributable to the PTI acquisition.

ACQUISITIONS

      On  December  1,  1998,  the  Company  acquired  the  assets of certain of
Ameritech's  telephone  and  directory  operations  in  19  telephone  exchanges
covering 21 communities in northern and central Wisconsin for approximately $221
million  cash.  The  operations  acquired by the Company  include the  telephone
property and equipment serving approximately 86,000 access lines, as well as the
related nine telephone directories.

      On  December  1, 1997,  the Company  acquired  PTI in exchange  for $1.503
billion cash and assumed PTI's debt of  approximately  $725 million.  To finance
the acquisition,  the Company borrowed $1.288 billion under its committed credit
facility and paid the remainder of the purchase price with available  cash, most
of which  consisted  of the  proceeds  of the sale of  Brooks'  common  stock in
November  1997. See Liquidity and Capital  Resources - Financing  Activities for
additional information. As a result of the acquisition, the Company acquired (i)
over 660,000  telephone  access lines located in four midwestern  states,  seven
western  states  and  Alaska,  (ii)  over  88,000  cellular  subscribers  in two
midwestern  states and Alaska and (iii) various  wireless,  cable television and
other communications assets. For additional information, see Note 11 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

      In June 1998 the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  ("FASB")  issued
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 133 ("SFAS 133"),  "Accounting
for  Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities."  SFAS  133  established
accounting and reporting  standards for derivative  instruments  and for hedging
activities by requiring that entities recognize all derivatives as either assets
or  liabilities  at fair  value on the  balance  sheet.  Based on the  Company's
current use of  derivatives,  SFAS 133 is not expected to materially  impact the
Company's  financial  position or results of operations.  In June 1999, the FASB
deferred the effective date of SFAS 133 to fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2000.

      In June 1999, the FASB issued  Interpretation  No. 43, "Real Estate Sales,
an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 66." The interpretation is effective for
sales of real estate with property  improvements or integral  equipment  entered
into after  June 30,  1999.  Under this  interpretation,  fiber  optic  cable is
considered integral equipment and, accordingly,  title must transfer to a lessee
in order for an  Indefeasible  Right to Use transaction to be accounted for as a
sales-type lease. The application of the provisions of FASB  Interpretation  No.
43 does not have an impact on the  Company's  financial  position  or results of
operations.

      In December  1999, the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  issued Staff
Accounting  Bulletin  No. 101 ("SAB  101"),  "Revenue  Recognition  in Financial
Statements."  SAB 101  summarizes  certain  of the  staff's  views  in  applying
generally  accepted  accounting  principles to revenue  recognition and deferred
costs in the  financial  statements.  Based  on the  Company's  current  revenue
recognition policies, SAB 101 is not expected to materially impact the Company's
financial position or results of operations.

INFLATION

      The effects of increased  costs  historically  have been  mitigated by the
ability to recover certain costs applicable to the Company's regulated telephone
operations  through  the  rate-making  process.  As  operating  expenses  in the
Company's non-regulated lines of business increase as a result of inflation, the
Company,  to  the  extent  permitted  by  competition,  recovers  the  costs  by
increasing prices for its services and equipment.  While the rate-making process
does not permit the Company to  immediately  recover the costs of replacing  its
physical plant, the Company has historically  been able to recapture these costs
over time. Possible future regulatory changes may alter the Company's ability to
recover increased costs in its regulated operations.  For additional information
regarding the current regulatory environment, see Regulation and Competition.

MARKET RISK

      The  Company  is not  exposed to  material  future  earnings  or cash flow
exposures from changes in interest rates on long-term debt obligations since the
majority of the Company's long-term debt obligations are fixed rate. At December
31, 1999,  the fair value of the  Company's  long-term  debt was estimated to be
$2.0  billion  based  on the  overall  weighted  average  rate of the  Company's
long-term debt of 7.0% and an overall weighted  maturity of 12 years compared to
terms and rates currently available in long-term financing markets.  Market risk
is estimated as the potential decrease in fair value of the Company's  long-term
debt resulting from a hypothetical increase of 70 basis points in interest rates
(ten percent of the Company's  overall weighted average borrowing rate). Such an
increase  in  interest  rates  would  result in  approximately  a $89.0  million
decrease in fair value of the Company's long-term debt.

      In early 1998 the Company utilized interest rate hedge contracts to manage
its interest rate risk related to the issuance of $765.0 million of senior notes
and  debentures.  In February  2000,  the Company  entered into an interest rate
hedge  contract  designed to reduce its interest  rate risk with respect to $100
million of the long-term public debt that it expects to incur in connection with
financing  its  pending  acquisitions  of local  exchange  assets  in  Arkansas,
Missouri  and  Wisconsin.  It is  possible  that the  Company  will  enter  into
additional  interest  rate  hedges for the same  purpose  over the next  several
months. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information.


YEAR 2000 DISCLOSURE

      The Year 2000 issue  concerned  the  inability  of  computer  systems  and
certain  other  equipment to properly  recognize  and process data that uses two
digits rather than four to designate particular years. The Company implemented a
Year 2000 Project  Plan ("the Plan") to assess  whether its systems that process
date sensitive information would perform satisfactorily leading up to and beyond
January 1, 2000. Subsequent to December 31, 1999, the Company has experienced no
Year  2000-related  problems with its critical systems nor did it experience any
problems with the delivery of critical services it receives from third parties.

      In connection with  implementing  the Plan, the Company  incurred costs of
$35.1 million  during 1999 ($24.1 million of which was related to hardware costs
and other capital items) and $4.2 million during 1998 (none of which was related
to hardware costs or other capital items).  All costs were expensed as incurred,
except for hardware and other items that were  capitalized  in  accordance  with
generally accepted accounting principles.

                         LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

      Excluding cash used for acquisitions,  the Company relies on cash provided
by operations to provide a substantial  portion of its cash needs. The Company's
operations  have  historically  provided a stable  source of cash flow which has
helped the Company continue its long-term program of capital improvements.

Operating activities

      Net cash  provided by  operating  activities  was $408.7  million,  $467.8
million and $297.3 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  The Company's
accompanying  consolidated  statements of cash flows identify major  differences
between net income and net cash  provided by  operating  activities  for each of
those years. For additional  information  relating to the telephone  operations,
wireless  operations  and  other  operations  of the  Company,  see  Results  of
Operations.

Investing activities

      Net cash provided by (used in)  investing  activities  was $69.8  million,
($375.6)  million and  ($1.503)  billion in 1999,  1998 and 1997,  respectively.
Proceeds from the sales of assets were $484.5 million in 1999 compared to $132.3
million in 1998 and $202.7 million in 1997. Cash used for acquisitions was $21.0
million, $225.6 million and $1.544 billion in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
Capital  expenditures  for 1999 were $233.5  million for  telephone  operations,
$58.8 million for wireless  operations and $97.7 for other  operations.  Capital
expenditures  during  1998 and 1997 were  $310.9  million  and  $181.2  million,
respectively.

Financing activities

      Net cash used in  financing  activities  was  $427.6  million  in 1999 and
$112.4  million in 1998.  Net cash provided by financing  activities  was $1.223
billion during 1997, of which $1.288  billion was related to the  acquisition of
PTI.  Net  payments  of  long-term  debt were  $365.5  million  more during 1999
compared to 1998 primarily due to the  utilization of proceeds from the sales of
assets. In December 1997 the Company filed a shelf  registration  statement with
the United States Securities and Exchange Commission registering an aggregate of
$1.6 billion of senior unsecured debt securities,  preferred stock, common stock
and warrants. In January 1998 the Company issued an aggregate of $765 million of
senior notes and debentures. The net proceeds of approximately $758 million were
used to reduce the bank indebtedness incurred in connection with the acquisition
of PTI. In  addition,  the  Company  paid  approximately  $40 million in 1998 to
settle  numerous  interest  rate hedge  contracts  that had been entered into in
anticipation of these debt issuances.

Other

      Budgeted  capital  expenditures  for 2000 total $250 million for telephone
operations,  $100  million  for  wireless  operations  and $65 million for other
operations.  The Company anticipates that capital  expenditures in its telephone
operations  will continue to include the  installation  of fiber optic cable and
the upgrading of its plant and  equipment,  including its digital  switches,  to
provide enhanced services.  Capital  expenditures in the wireless operations are
expected to continue to focus on constructing  additional cell sites (which will
provide  additional  capacity and expanded  areas where  cellular  phones may be
used) and providing  digital service.  Budgeted  capital  expenditures for other
operations  include $15 million for  construction of the Company's fiber network
and $20 million for construction of competitive local exchange networks.

      In June 1999, the Company signed a definitive asset purchase  agreement to
purchase  from  affiliates of GTE  Corporation  ("GTE")  telephone  access lines
(which  numbered  approximately  225,000 at December 31, 1999) and related local
exchange  assets in Arkansas for  approximately  $845.8 million in cash. In July
1999,  the  Company  acquired  a  61.5%  (56.9%  fully  diluted)  interest  in a
newly-organized  joint venture company which has entered into a definitive asset
purchase  agreement with  affiliates of GTE to purchase  telephone  access lines
(which  numbered  approximately  121,000 at December 31, 1999) and related local
exchange assets in Missouri for approximately  $290 million in cash. At closing,
the Company has agreed to make  approximately  a $55  million  preferred  equity
investment  in the new entity and it is  anticipated  that the Company will loan
the new entity approximately $220 million.

      In August 1999, the Company acquired an 89% interest in a  newly-organized
joint  venture  company  which has  entered  into a  definitive  asset  purchase
agreement  to purchase  telephone  access lines  (which  numbered  approximately
61,700 as of December 31, 1999) and related local  exchange  assets in Wisconsin
from a GTE affiliate for approximately $170 million cash. At closing the Company
has  agreed  to make an equity  investment  in the newly  organized  company  of
approximately $37.8 million and it is anticipated that the Company will loan the
new entity approximately $130 million. In October 1999, the Company also entered
into a definitive  asset  purchase  agreement to purchase  additional  telephone
access lines (which numbered  approximately  68,200 as of December 31, 1999) and
related  local   exchange   assets  in  Wisconsin   from  a  GTE  affiliate  for
approximately $195 million cash.

      The  purchase  price  under  each of these GTE  agreements  is  subject to
adjustments  which are not  expected  to be  material  in the  aggregate.  These
transactions  are  anticipated to close by mid-year 2000,  subject to regulatory
approvals and certain other closing conditions. Although financing plans are not
yet complete and will be dependent upon the Company's review of its alternatives
and  market  conditions,  the  Company  currently  anticipates  selling a mix of
securities  that  will  include  debt  securities  and  may  include  equity  or
equity-linked  securities.  Currently,  the Company's  senior  unsecured debt is
rated Baa1 by Moody's and BBB+ by Standard & Poor's. However, as a result of the
Company's announcement of its GTE acquisitions, Moody's placed its ratings under
review  for  possible  downgrade  and  Standard & Poor's  placed its  ratings on
CreditWatch with negative implications.

      The Company continually  evaluates the possibility of acquiring additional
telecommunications  operations and expects to continue its long-term strategy of
pursuing the acquisition of attractive communications properties in exchange for
cash,   securities  or  both.  The  Company  generally  does  not  announce  its
acquisitions  until it has entered into a preliminary  or definitive  agreement.
Over the past few years, the amount of communications properties available to be
purchased by the Company has  increased  substantially.  The Company may require
additional financing in connection with any such acquisitions,  the consummation
of which could have a material  impact on the Company's  financial  condition or
operations.  Approximately  4.6 million  shares of  CenturyTel  common stock and
200,000  shares of  CenturyTel  preferred  stock  remain  available  for  future
issuance in connection with acquisitions under an acquisition shelf registration
statement.

      As  of  December  31,  1999,  the  Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  had
available for use $131.5 million of commitments for long-term financing from the
Rural Utilities  Service and the Company had $219.1 million of undrawn committed
bank lines of credit.  The  Company  also has access to debt and equity  capital
markets, including its shelf registration statement.

      The following  table reflects the Company's  debt to total  capitalization
percentage  and ratio of earnings to fixed charges as of and for the years ended
December 31:



                           REGULATION AND COMPETITION

      The  communications  industry  continues  to undergo  various  fundamental
regulatory,  legislative,  competitive  and  technological  changes that make it
difficult to determine the form or degree of future  regulation and  competition
affecting the Company's  telephone  and wireless  operations.  These changes may
have  a  significant   impact  on  the  future  financial   performance  of  all
communications companies.

Events affecting the communications industry

      In 1996 the United States Congress enacted the  Telecommunications  Act of
1996  (the  "1996  Act"),   which  obligates  LECs  to  permit   competitors  to
interconnect  their  facilities  to the LEC's  network and to take various other
steps that are designed to promote  competition.  The 1996 Act provides  certain
exemptions for rural LECs such as those operated by the Company. Under the FCC's
August  1996  order   implementing  most  of  the  1996  Act's   interconnection
provisions,  rural  LECs have the burden of proving  the  availability  of these
exemptions.

      Prior to and since the  enactment of the 1996 Act, the FCC and a number of
state  legislative  and  regulatory  bodies  have  taken  steps to foster  local
exchange  competition.  Coincident with this recent  movement  toward  increased
competition  has been the gradual  reduction  of  regulatory  oversight of LECs.
These cumulative  changes have led to the continued growth of various  companies
providing services that compete with LECs' services.  Wireless services entities
are also expected to increasingly compete with LECs.

      The 1996  Act  authorized  the  establishment  of new  federal  and  state
universal  service  funds to  provide  support  to  eligible  telecommunications
carriers.  These new funds are  intended  to replace  existing  federal  support
mechanisms  that  currently   provide   approximately   7.6%  of  the  Company's
consolidated  revenues.  In October 1999 the FCC adopted an order implementing a
new universal service support mechanism for non-rural carriers for high cost and
rural  markets.  This  order  will  shift  non-rural  telephone  companies  to a
forward-looking  cost  model  in  determining  their  future  universal  service
support.  Because  all of the  Company's  LEC's  have been  designated  as rural
telephone companies,  this order will not directly impact the Company.  However,
this order may establish  the  benchmark for the treatment of universal  service
support funding for rural carriers.  The Company's LECs will continue to receive
payments under the existing federal support  mechanisms for rural carriers until
the FCC adopts funding  support  mechanisms  based on  forward-looking  economic
costs, which it is required to do, but no earlier than January 2001.

      In  September  1998 the FCC  initiated a  proceeding  to  represcribe  the
authorized rate of return for interstate  access services  provided by LECs. The
FCC  periodically  represcribes  this rate of return to ensure  that the service
rates filed by incumbent LECs subject to rate of return  regulation  continue to
be just and reasonable. It is uncertain whether or by how much the FCC may lower
the  authorized  rate of  return.  For  rate  of  return  companies,  the FCC is
considering  how other  unresolved  issues such as  jurisdictional  separations,
access   charge  reform  and   universal   service  must  be  addressed   before
represcribing rate of return.

      Competition to provide traditional telephone or wireless services has thus
far  affected  large urban areas to a greater  extent than rural,  suburban  and
small urban areas such as those in which the Company's  operations  are located.
The Company does not believe such competition is likely to materially  affect it
in the near term. The Company  further  believes that it may benefit from having
the  opportunity  to observe  the effects of these  developments  in large urban
markets.  The Company will continue to monitor  ongoing  changes in  regulation,
competition  and  technology and consider  which  developments  provide the most
favorable opportunities for the Company to pursue.

Recent events affecting the Company

      During 1999 the  Company's  revenues  from the USF  totaled  approximately
$127.5  million (of which $5.2  million  related to the  Company's  Alaska based
operations).  During 1998, such revenues  totaled $127.6 million (of which $13.4
million  related to the Alaska  based  operations.)  Although  the  Company  may
experience  a  reduction  in its federal  support  revenues at some point in the
future,  management  believes it is premature to assess or estimate the ultimate
impact thereof. There can be no assurance, however, that such impact will not be
material.

      During  the last few  years,  several  states  in which  the  Company  has
substantial operations took legislative or regulatory steps to further introduce
competition  into the LEC  business.  While the  Company  is aware of only a few
companies which have requested  authorization  to provide local exchange service
in the Company's  service areas,  it is  anticipated  that similar action may be
taken by others in the future.

      In mid-1997 the Louisiana  Public  Service  Commission  adopted a Consumer
Price  Protection  Plan which froze the local rates and access rates that can be
charged by the Company's LECs operating in Louisiana.  Certain other states have
implemented  various forms of alternative  regulation plans, the impact of which
has not been material either  individually or in the aggregate to the results of
operations of the Company.

      Certain long distance carriers continue to request that the Company reduce
intrastate  access  tariffed  rates for certain of its LECs.  In  addition,  the
Company  continues to receive  pressure from other cellular  operators to reduce
roaming  rates in the Company's  cellular  markets.  There is no assurance  that
these  requests will not result in reduced  intrastate  access  revenues  and/or
roaming revenues in the future.

      The Company anticipates that regulatory changes and competitive  pressures
may result in future revenue  reductions in its telephone  operations.  However,
the Company  anticipates  that such  reductions may be minimized by increases in
revenues  attributable  to the  continued  demand for enhanced  services and new
product offerings.  While the Company expects its telephone revenues to continue
to grow, its internal  telephone  revenue  growth rate may slow during  upcoming
periods.

Other matters

      The Company's regulated telephone operations are subject to the provisions
of SFAS 71,  under which the  Company is  required  to account for the  economic
effects of the rate-making process, including the recognition of depreciation of
plant and equipment over lives approved by regulators. The ongoing applicability
of SFAS 71 to the Company's  regulated  telephone  operations is being monitored
due to the changing regulatory,  competitive and legislative environments.  When
the regulated operations of the Company no longer qualify for the application of
SFAS 71, the net adjustments required will result in a material,  extraordinary,
noncash  charge  against  earnings.  While the amount of such  charge  cannot be
precisely  estimated  at  this  time,  management  believes  that  the  noncash,
after-tax,  extraordinary charge would be between $300 million and $350 million.
See  Note 12 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  additional
information.

      The Company has certain obligations based on federal, state and local laws
relating to the protection of the environment.  Costs of compliance through 1999
have not been material,  and the Company currently has no reason to believe that
such costs will become material.


Item 7A.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

      The  Company  is not  exposed to  material  future  earnings  or cash flow
exposures  from  changes in interest  rates on long-term  obligations  since the
majority of the Company's long-term  obligations are fixed rate. At December 31,
1999, the Company estimates that the fair value of the Company's  long-term debt
was $2.0 billion which was determined by comparing the overall  weighted average
rate of the Company's long-term debt of 7.0% and an overall weighted maturity of
12 years to terms and rates currently  available in long-term financing markets.
Market  risk  is  estimated  as the  potential  decrease  in fair  value  of the
Company's  long-term debt  resulting  from a  hypothetical  increase of 70 basis
points in interest rates (ten percent of the Company's  overall weighted average
borrowing   rate).   Such  an  increase  in  interest   rates  would  result  in
approximately a $89.0 million decrease in fair value of the Company's  long-term
debt.  In late 1997 and early  1998 the  Company  utilized  interest  rate hedge
contracts to manage its interest  rate risk related to its January 1998 issuance
of $765.0 million of senior notes and debentures.  In February 2000, the Company
entered  into an interest  rate hedge  contract  designed to reduce its interest
rate risk with respect to $100 million of long-term  public debt that it expects
to incur in connection with financing its pending acquisitions of local exchange
assets in Arkansas, Missouri and Wisconsin. It is possible that the Company will
enter into  additional  interest  rate hedges for the same purpose over the next
several months.


Item 8.       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

                              Report of Management

The Shareholders
CenturyTel, Inc.:

     Management has prepared and is responsible  for the Company's  consolidated
financial statements.  The consolidated  financial statements have been prepared
in accordance  with generally  accepted  accounting  principles and  necessarily
include  amounts   determined  using  our  best  judgments  and  estimates  with
consideration given to materiality.

     The Company  maintains  internal  control systems and related  policies and
procedures designed to provide reasonable  assurance that the accounting records
accurately  reflect  business  transactions  and  that the  transactions  are in
accordance with management's authorization.  The design, monitoring and revision
of the systems of internal  control  involve,  among other things,  our judgment
with respect to the  relative  cost and  expected  benefits of specific  control
measures.  Additionally,  the Company  maintains an internal  auditing  function
which independently  evaluates the effectiveness of internal controls,  policies
and procedures and formally reports on the adequacy and effectiveness thereof.

     The Company's  consolidated  financial statements have been audited by KPMG
LLP, independent certified public accountants,  who have expressed their opinion
with respect to the fairness of the  consolidated  financial  statements.  Their
audit was conducted in accordance with generally  accepted  auditing  standards,
which  includes the  consideration  of the  Company's  internal  controls to the
extent necessary to form an independent  opinion on the  consolidated  financial
statements prepared by management.

     The Audit  Committee of the Board of Directors is composed of directors who
are not officers or employees of the Company.  The Committee meets  periodically
with  the  independent  certified  public  accountants,  internal  auditors  and
management.  The  Committee  considers  the audit scope and  discusses  internal
control,  financial and reporting  matters.  Both the  independent  and internal
auditors have free access to the Committee.

/s/ R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.
- --------------------------
R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



                          Independent Auditors' Report


The Board of Directors
CenturyTel, Inc.:

     We have audited the consolidated  financial statements of CenturyTel,  Inc.
and subsidiaries as listed in Item 14a(i).  In connection with our audits of the
consolidated financial statements,  we also have audited the financial statement
schedules as listed in Item 14a(ii). These consolidated financial statements and
financial   statement   schedules  are  the   responsibility  of  the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

     We conducted  our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects,  the financial position of CenturyTel,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the  three-year  period
ended  December 31, 1999,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting
principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole,  present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the  information set forth
therein.

/s/  KPMG LLP
- ----------------
KPMG LLP

Shreveport, Louisiana
January 26, 2000


                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                        Consolidated Statements of Income





                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income






                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows







                                CENTURYTEL, INC,
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999


(1)      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles  of  consolidation  -  The  consolidated   financial   statements  of
CenturyTel,  Inc. and its subsidiaries  (the "Company")  include the accounts of
CenturyTel,   Inc.  ("CenturyTel")  and  its  majority-owned   subsidiaries  and
partnerships.  The Company's regulated  telephone  operations are subject to the
provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 71,  "Accounting
for the  Effects  of  Certain  Types of  Regulation."  Investments  in  cellular
entities  where the Company does not own a majority  interest are  accounted for
using the equity method of accounting.

Estimates - The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that  affect the  reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities  and
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates.

Revenue  recognition  - Revenues  are  recognized  when  earned.  Certain of the
Company's  telephone  subsidiaries  participate in revenue sharing  arrangements
with other telephone companies for interstate revenue and for certain intrastate
revenue.  Such sharing  arrangements  are funded by toll revenue  and/or  access
charges  within  state  jurisdictions  and by access  charges in the  interstate
market.  Revenues earned through the various sharing  arrangements are initially
recorded based on the Company's estimates.

Property,  plant and  equipment -  Telephone  plant is stated  substantially  at
original  cost.  Normal  retirements  of  telephone  plant are  charged  against
accumulated depreciation, along with the costs of removal, less salvage, with no
gain or loss  recognized.  Renewals and  betterments  of plant and equipment are
capitalized  while repairs,  as well as renewals of minor items,  are charged to
operating  expense.  Depreciation of telephone plant is provided on the straight
line  method  using  class or  overall  group  rates  acceptable  to  regulatory
authorities; such rates range from 1.8% to 25%.

Non-telephone property is stated at cost and,  when sold or retired,  a gain or
loss is recognized.  Depreciation  of such property is provided on the straight
line method over estimated service lives ranging from three to 30 years.

Long-lived  assets  and  excess  cost of net assets  acquired  (goodwill)  - The
carrying value of long-lived assets,  including allocated goodwill,  is reviewed
for impairment at least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate  that such  carrying  value may not be  recoverable,  by assessing  the
recoverability of such carrying value through estimated  undiscounted future net
cash flows expected to be generated by the assets or the acquired business.  The
excess  cost  of net  assets  acquired  of  substantially  all of the  Company's
acquisitions accounted for as purchases is being amortized over 40 years.

Affiliated  transactions - Certain service  subsidiaries  of CenturyTel  provide
installation and maintenance services,  materials and supplies,  and managerial,
technical,  accounting and administrative services to subsidiaries. In addition,
CenturyTel provides and bills management services to subsidiaries and in certain
instances makes interest bearing  advances to finance  construction of plant and
purchases  of  equipment.  These  transactions  are  recorded  by the  Company's
telephone  subsidiaries  at their cost to the  extent  permitted  by  regulatory
authorities.  Intercompany  profit on transactions with regulated  affiliates is
limited to a reasonable  return on  investment  and has not been  eliminated  in
connection  with  consolidating  the results of operations of CenturyTel and its
subsidiaries.  Intercompany profit on transactions with nonregulated  affiliates
has been eliminated.

Income taxes - CenturyTel  files a  consolidated  federal income tax return with
its eligible  subsidiaries.  The Company uses the asset and liability  method of
accounting for income taxes under which deferred tax assets and  liabilities are
established for the future tax consequences  attributable to differences between
the financial  statement  carrying  amounts of assets and  liabilities and their
respective  tax bases.  Investment tax credits  related to telephone  plant have
been  deferred  and are being  amortized  as a reduction  of federal  income tax
expense  over the  estimated  useful  lives  of the  assets  giving  rise to the
credits.

Derivative  financial  instruments  - The Company has entered into interest rate
hedge  contracts in  anticipation  of certain debt issuances to manage  interest
rate exposure.  Interest rate contracts  generally involve the exchange of fixed
and floating  rate  interest  payments  without the  exchange of the  underlying
principal. Net amounts paid or received are reflected as adjustments to interest
expense.  The Company had no  outstanding  interest  rate hedge  contracts as of
December 31, 1999. The Company does not utilize derivative financial instruments
for trading or other speculative purposes.

Earnings per share - Basic  earnings  per share  amounts are  determined  on the
basis of the weighted  average  number of common shares  outstanding  during the
year.  Diluted  earnings per share give effect to all potential  dilutive common
shares that were outstanding during the period.

Stock  compensation - The Company accounts for employee stock compensation plans
in accordance with Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting for
Stock Issued to  Employees,"  as allowed by  Statement  of Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."

Cash equivalents - The Company considers short-term  investments with a maturity
at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Reclassifications  - Certain  amounts  previously  reported for prior years have
been  reclassified  to  conform  with  the  1999  presentation,   including  the
reclassification  of the Company's personal  communication  services  operations
from other operations to the wireless segment.

(2)      Investments in Unconsolidated Cellular Entities

      The Company's  share of earnings  from cellular entities in which it does
not own a majority  interest was $28.8 million,  $34.1 million and $29.4 million
in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, and is included, net of $1.1 million, $1.2
million  and $1.6  million of  amortization  of  goodwill  attributable  to such
investments,  in "Income from unconsolidated cellular entities" in the Company's
Consolidated   Statements   of  Income.   Over  86%  of  the  1999  income  from
unconsolidated cellular entities was attributable to the following investments.


      The following  summarizes the unaudited  combined assets, liabilities and
equity,  and the  unaudited  combined  results of  operations,  of the  cellular
entities in which the Company's  investments  (as of December 31, 1999 and 1998)
were accounted for by the equity method.





      At  December  31,  1999,  $65.5  million of the Company's  consolidated
retained earnings represented  undistributed earnings of unconsolidated cellular
entities.

(3)      PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

      Net  property,  plant and  equipment  at  December  31,  1999 and 1998 was
composed of the following:



      Depreciation expense was $296.8 million, $280.5 million and $142.6 million
in 1999,  1998 and  1997,  respectively.  The  composite  depreciation  rate for
telephone properties was 7.0% for 1999, 6.9% for 1998 and 7.4% for 1997.

(4)      INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS

      Investments  and other assets at December 31, 1999 and 1998 were  composed
of the following:



      Goodwill  amortization  of $52.0 million,  $47.8 million and $16.6 million
for  1999,  1998 and  1997,  respectively,  is  included  in  "Depreciation  and
amortization" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income.

      The Company's  investments in marketable  equity securities are classified
as  available  for sale and are reported at fair value with  unrealized  holding
gains  and  losses  reported,   net  of  taxes,  as  a  separate   component  of
stockholders' equity. As of December 31, 1999, gross unrealized holding gains of
the Company's marketable equity securities were $99.0 million.

(5)      LONG-TERM DEBT


      The approximate  annual debt  maturities for the five years  subsequent to
December 31, 1999 are as follows:  2000 - $62.1 million;  2001 - $146.4 million;
2002 - $353.9 million; 2003 - $66.4 million; and 2004 - $70.5 million.

      Short-term  borrowings of $40.0 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998 were
classified as long-term  debt on the  accompanying  balance  sheets  because the
Company had adequate  committed  borrowing  capacity  available  under long-term
revolving facilities.

      Certain of the Company's loan  agreements  contain  various  restrictions,
among which are limitations  regarding  issuance of additional debt,  payment of
cash dividends,  reacquisition of the Company's capital stock and other matters.
At December 31, 1999, all of the consolidated retained earnings reflected on the
balance sheet was available for the declaration of dividends.

      The transfer of funds from certain consolidated subsidiaries to CenturyTel
is restricted  by various loan  agreements.  Subsidiaries  which have loans from
government agencies and cooperative lending  associations,  or have issued first
mortgage bonds,  generally may not loan or advance any funds to CenturyTel,  but
may pay  dividends  if certain  financial  ratios are met. At December 31, 1999,
restricted  net  assets  of  subsidiaries  were  $608.0  million.  Subsidiaries'
retained  earnings in excess of amounts  restricted  by debt  covenants  totaled
$745.8 million.

      Most of the Company's telephone  property,  plant and equipment is pledged
to secure the long-term debt of subsidiaries.

      On January  15,  1998,  CenturyTel  issued $100  million of 7-year,  6.15%
senior notes (Series E); $240 million of 10-year,  6.3% senior notes (Series F);
and $425  million  of  30-year,  6.875%  debentures  (Series  G) under its shelf
registration  statements.   The  net  proceeds  of  approximately  $758  million
(excluding payment  obligations of approximately $40 million related to interest
rate hedging  effected in connection  with the offering) were used to reduce the
bank  indebtedness  incurred  under the Senior  Credit  Facility.  This facility
carries  floating rate interest  based upon London  InterBank  Offered Rates for
short-term periods.

      In mid-January  1998,  the Company  settled  numerous  interest rate hedge
contracts that had been entered into in anticipation of the above-mentioned debt
issuances.  The  amounts  paid  by the  Company  upon  settlement  of the  hedge
contracts  aggregated  approximately  $40 million,  which is being  amortized as
interest  expense  over  the  lives  of the  underlying  debt  instruments.  The
effective  weighted  average  interest rate of the debt incurred in January 1998
(after giving consideration to these payment obligations) is 7.15%.

      CenturyTel's  telephone  subsidiaries had approximately  $131.5 million in
commitments for long-term  financing from the Rural Utilities  Service available
at December 31, 1999. Approximately $219.1 million of additional borrowings were
available to the Company through committed lines of credit with various banks.

(6)      POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

      The Company sponsors defined  benefit  health  care plans that  provide
postretirement benefits to substantially all retired full-time employees.

      The following is a reconciliation  for the benefit obligation and the plan
assets.


      Net periodic postretirement benefit cost for 1999, 1998 and 1997 included
the following components:



      The following table sets forth the amounts recognized as liabilities for
postretirement benefits at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.



      Assumptions used in accounting for postretirement  benefits as of December
31, 1999 and 1998 were:



      For measurement purposes,  a 7.4% annual rate in the per capita cost of
covered  health  care  benefits  was  assumed  for  2000 and  beyond. A
one-percentage-point  change in assumed  health  care cost rates  would have the
following effects:


(7)      DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER LIABILITIES

      Deferred credits and other liabilities at December 31, 1999 and 1998 were
composed of the following:



(8)      STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY

Common stock - At December 31, 1999,  unissued shares of CenturyTel common stock
were reserved as follows:


      Under  CenturyTel's  Articles of Incorporation  each share of common stock
beneficially  owned continuously by the same person since May 30, 1987 generally
entitles the holder thereof to ten votes per share. All other shares entitle the
holder to one vote per share.  At December 31, 1999, the holders of 11.4 million
shares of common stock were entitled to ten votes per share.

Preferred stock - As of December 31, 1999,  CenturyTel had 2.0 million shares of
preferred stock, $25 par value per share,  authorized.  At December 31, 1999 and
1998,  there were  319,000  and 324,238  shares,  respectively,  of  outstanding
preferred stock. Holders of outstanding  CenturyTel preferred stock are entitled
to receive cumulative dividends, receive preferential distributions equal to $25
per share plus unpaid  dividends  upon  CenturyTel's  liquidation  and vote as a
single class with the holders of common stock.

Shareholders' Rights Plan - In 1996 the Board of Directors  declared a dividend
of one preference share purchase right for each common share  outstanding.  Such
rights become  exercisable if and when a potential  acquiror takes certain steps
to acquire 15% or more of CenturyTel's common stock. Upon the occurrence of such
an acquisition,  each right held by shareholders  other than the acquiror may be
exercised to receive  that number of shares of common stock or other  securities
of CenturyTel (or, in certain  situations,  the acquiring  company) which at the
time of such  transaction  will have a market  value of two  times the  exercise
price of the right.

Stock split - On February 23, 1999,  CenturyTel's  Board of Directors declared a
three-for-two common stock split effected as a 50% stock dividend in March 1999.
All per share data  included in this report for periods prior to March 1999 have
been  restated to reflect this stock split.  An amount equal to the par value of
the additional common shares issued pursuant to the stock split was reflected as
a transfer from  paid-in-capital  to common stock on the consolidated  financial
statements for 1998.

(9)      STOCK OPTION PROGRAM

      CenturyTel has an incentive compensation program which allows the Board of
Directors,  through  a  subcommittee  to the  Compensation  Committee,  to grant
incentives  to employees in any one or a  combination  of the  following  forms:
incentive and non-qualified stock options; stock appreciation rights; restricted
stock; and performance shares. As of December 31, 1999,  CenturyTel had reserved
6.5  million  shares of common  stock  which may be issued  under the  incentive
compensation program.

      Under the  program,  options  have been  granted to  employees  at a price
either equal to or exceeding the  then-current  market price. All of the options
expire ten years  after the date of grant and the  vesting  period  ranges  from
immediate to three years.

      During 1999 the Company  granted  83,743  options (the "1999  Options") at
market  price.  The weighted  average fair value of each of the 1999 Options was
estimated  as of the date of grant to be $15.90  using an  option-pricing  model
with the following assumptions: dividend yield - .4%; expected volatility - 20%;
risk-free interest rate - 6.6%; and expected option life - seven years.

      During 1998 the Company  granted  121,667  options (the "1998 Options") at
market  price.  The weighted  average fair value of each of the 1998 Options was
estimated as of the date of grant to be $8.88 using an option-pricing model with
the following  assumptions:  dividend  yield - .5%;  expected  volatility - 20%;
risk-free interest rate - 4.8%; and expected option life - seven years.

      During 1997 the Company granted  1,293,909 options (the "1997 Options") at
market  price.  The weighted  average fair value of each of the 1997 Options was
estimated as of the date of grant to be $5.68 using an option-pricing model with
the following  assumptions:  dividend  yield - .8%;  expected  volatility - 25%;
risk-free interest rate - 6.5%; and expected option life - eight years.

      Stock option transactions during 1999, 1998 and 1997 were as follows:



      The following tables summarize certain information about CenturyTel's
stock options at December 31, 1999.





      The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," in accounting for its program.
Accordingly,  no  compensation  cost has been  recognized  for the  program.  If
compensation cost for CenturyTel's  program had been determined  consistent with
SFAS 123, the  Company's  net income and earnings per share on a pro forma basis
for 1999, 1998 and 1997 would have been as follows:



(10)     EARNINGS PER SHARE

      The following is a  reconciliation  of the numerators and  denominators of
the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:



      The weighted  average number of options to purchase shares of common stock
that were excluded from the  computation  of diluted  earnings per share because
the exercise  price of the option was greater  than the average  market price of
the  common  stock was  20,000,  3,000 and  1,099,000  for 1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively.

(11)     ACQUISITIONS

      On December 1, 1997,  CenturyTel acquired Pacific Telecom, Inc. ("PTI") in
exchange for $1.503  billion cash and assumed PTI's debt of  approximately  $725
million.  To finance the  acquisition,  which was  accounted  for as a purchase,
CenturyTel  borrowed  $1.288  billion  under its $1.6 billion  senior  unsecured
credit facility (the "Senior Credit Facility") dated August 28, 1997. CenturyTel
paid the remainder of the PTI acquisition price with available cash.

      As a result of the acquisition,  the Company acquired (i) telephone access
lines located in four midwestern states,  seven western states and Alaska,  (ii)
cellular  subscribers  in two  midwestern  states and  Alaska and (iii)  various
wireless, cable television and other communications assets.

      The following pro forma information represents the consolidated results of
operations of the Company as if the PTI acquisition  had been  consummated as of
January 1, 1997.



      The pro forma  information is not necessarily  indicative of the operating
results that would have occurred if the PTI acquisition had been  consummated as
of  January  1,  1997,  nor is it  necessarily  indicative  of future  operating
results.  The actual  results of  operations  of PTI have been  included  in the
Company's consolidated financial statements only from the date of acquisition.

      On December  1, 1998,  the Company  acquired  the assets of certain  local
telephone  and directory  operations in parts of northern and central  Wisconsin
from  affiliates  of  Ameritech  Corporation  ("Ameritech"),   in  exchange  for
approximately  $221  million  cash.  The assets  included  (i) access  lines and
related  property  and  equipment  in  21  predominantly  rural  communities  in
Wisconsin and (ii) Ameritech's  directory  publishing  operations that relate to
nine telephone directories.

(12)     ACCOUNTING FOR THE EFFECTS OF REGULATION

      The Company's regulated telephone operations are subject to the provisions
of Statement of Financial Accounting  Standards No. 71 ("SFAS 71"),  "Accounting
for the Effects of Certain  Types of  Regulation."  Actions of a  regulator  can
provide reasonable  assurance of the existence of an asset,  reduce or eliminate
the value of an asset and impose a  liability  on a regulated  enterprise.  Such
regulatory assets and liabilities are required to be recorded and,  accordingly,
reflected in the balance sheet of an entity subject to SFAS 71.

      The Company's  consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 1999 included
regulatory assets of approximately $570.9 million and regulatory  liabilities of
approximately  $7.8 million.  The $570.9 million of regulatory  assets  included
amounts related to accumulated depreciation ($565.9 million), assets established
in  connection  with  postretirement  benefits  ($690,000),  income  taxes ($1.5
million)  and  deferred  financing  costs ($2.8  million).  The $7.8  million of
regulatory  liabilities  was  established  in  connection  with the  adoption of
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 109,  "Accounting  For Income
Taxes." Net deferred income tax liabilities related to the regulatory assets and
liabilities quantified above were $229.4 million.

      Property,  plant  and  equipment  of  the  Company's  regulated  telephone
operations has been  depreciated  using  generally the straight line method over
lives approved by regulators. Such depreciable lives have generally exceeded the
depreciable lives used by nonregulated entities. In addition, in accordance with
regulatory  accounting,  retirements of regulated  telephone  property have been
charged  to  accumulated  depreciation,  along with the costs of  removal,  less
salvage,  with no  gain  or loss  recognized.  These  accounting  policies  have
resulted  in  accumulated  depreciation  being  significantly  less  than if the
Company's telephone operations had not been regulated.

      Statement  of  Financial   Accounting  Standards  No.  101  ("SFAS  101"),
"Regulated  Enterprises - Accounting  for the  Discontinuance  of Application of
FASB  Statement No. 71,"  specifies the  accounting  required when an enterprise
ceases to meet the  criteria for  application  of SFAS 71. SFAS 101 requires the
elimination  of  the  effects  of any  actions  of  regulators  that  have  been
recognized as assets and  liabilities  in accordance  with SFAS 71 but would not
have been recognized as assets and liabilities by enterprises in general,  along
with an adjustment of certain accumulated  depreciation  accounts to reflect the
difference  between recorded  depreciation  and the amount of depreciation  that
would have been recorded had the Company's telephone operations not been subject
to rate  regulation.  SFAS 101 further  provides  that the  carrying  amounts of
property,  plant and  equipment are to be adjusted only to the extent the assets
are  impaired  and that  impairment  shall be judged  in the same  manner as for
enterprises in general.  Deferred tax  liabilities  and deferred  investment tax
credits will be impacted  based on the change in the temporary  differences  for
property, plant and equipment and accumulated depreciation.

      The ongoing  applicability of SFAS 71 to the Company's regulated telephone
operations is being  monitored due to the changing  regulatory,  competitive and
legislative  environments,  and  it is  possible  that  changes  in  regulation,
legislation or  competition or in the demand for regulated  services or products
could result in the  Company's  telephone  operations no longer being subject to
SFAS 71 in the near  future.  When the  regulated  operations  of the Company no
longer qualify for the application of SFAS 71, the net adjustments required will
result in a material,  noncash charge against earnings which will be reported as
an  extraordinary  item.  While the  effect of  implementing  SFAS 101 cannot be
precisely  estimated  at  this  time,  management  believes  that  the  noncash,
after-tax,  extraordinary charge would be between $300 million and $350 million.
For regulatory purposes, the accounting and reporting of the Company's telephone
subsidiaries will not be affected by the discontinued application of SFAS 71.

(13)     INCOME TAXES

      The tax effects of  temporary  differences  that gave rise to  significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31,
1999 and 1998 were as follows:



      The following is a  reconciliation  from the statutory  federal income tax
rate to the Company's effective income tax rate:



      Income tax expense included in the  Consolidated  Statements of Income for
the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was as follows:


      Income tax expense was allocated as follows:




(14)     SALE OR EXCHANGE OF ASSETS

      In the  first  quarter  of  1999  the  Company  recorded  a  pre-tax  gain
aggregating $10.4 million ($6.7 million  after-tax;  $.04 per diluted share) due
to the sale of its remaining common shares of MCIWorldCom, Inc. ("WorldCom").

      In May  1999,  the  Company  sold  substantially  all of its  Alaska-based
operations  that were  acquired in the PTI  acquisition.  The  Company  received
approximately $300 million in after-tax cash as a result of the transaction.  In
accordance  with  purchase  accounting,  no gain or loss was  recorded  upon the
disposition of these properties.

      In June 1999,  the Company sold the assets of its cellular  operations  in
Brownsville and McAllen, Texas for approximately $96 million cash. In connection
therewith,  the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately  $39.6 million,
and an after-tax loss of approximately $7.8 million ($.05 per diluted share.)

      In the  fourth  quarter  of 1999  the  Company  recorded  a  pre-tax  gain
aggregating $11.6 million ($7.6 million  after-tax;  $.05 per diluted share) due
to the sale of its Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. common stock.

      In  connection  with the first  quarter 1998  acquisition  of Brooks Fiber
Properties, Inc. ("Brooks") by WorldCom, the Company's 551,000 shares of Brooks'
common stock were  converted into  approximately  1.0 million shares of WorldCom
common stock.  The Company recorded such conversion at fair value which resulted
in a pre-tax gain of approximately $22.8 million ($14.8 million after-tax;  $.11
per diluted  share).  In the second  quarter of 1998,  the Company  sold 750,000
shares of WorldCom  common  stock for $35.6  million cash and recorded a pre-tax
gain of $8.7 million ($5.7 million after tax; $.04 per diluted share).

      In the second quarter of 1998, the Company sold its minority  interests in
two non-strategic  cellular entities for approximately  $31.0 million cash which
resulted in a pre-tax gain of $21.8 million ($12.3 million  after-tax;  $.09 per
diluted  share).  Additionally,  in the second quarter the Company wrote off its
minority investment in a start-up company.

      During the second  quarter of 1998,  the Company also sold  various  other
properties that were acquired in the PTI acquisition, including, but not limited
to, the Company's submarine cable operations.  The Company utilized the proceeds
from these  transactions  to reduce its debt  associated with the acquisition of
PTI. In accordance with purchase  accounting,  no gain or loss was recorded upon
the disposition of these assets.

      In May  1997  the  Company  sold  its  majority-owned  competitive  access
subsidiary to Brooks in exchange for approximately 4.3 million shares of Brooks'
common stock. The Company  recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately  $71 million
($46 million  after-tax;  $.34 per diluted share).  In November 1997 the Company
sold approximately 3.8 million shares of Brooks' common stock for $202.7 million
cash and  recorded a pre-tax  gain of  approximately  $108  million ($66 million
after-tax; $.48 per diluted share).

(15)     RETIREMENT AND SAVINGS PLANS

      CenturyTel  sponsors a defined benefit pension plan for  substantially all
employees.  In addition,  the  bargaining  unit  employees  of a subsidiary  are
provided benefits under a separate defined benefit pension plan. CenturyTel also
sponsors an Outside  Directors'  Retire-ment  Plan and a Supplemental  Executive
Retirement  Plan  to  provide   directors  and  officers,   respectively,   with
supplemental retirement, death and disability benefits.

      The following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for
the benefit obligation and the plan assets for the retirement and savings plans.



      Net periodic  pension cost for 1999,  1998 and 1997 included the following
components:



      The  following  table sets forth the  combined  plans'  funded  status and
amounts recognized in the Company's  consolidated  balance sheet at December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997.



      Assumptions  used in accounting  for the pension plans as of December 1999
and 1998 were:



      CenturyTel  sponsors an Employee Stock Bonus Plan ("ESBP") and an Employee
Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP"). These plans cover most employees with one year of
service  with the  Company  and are funded by Company  contributions  determined
annually by the Board of Directors.

      The Company contributed $5.2 million, $3.7 million and $2.8 million to the
ESBP during 1999,  1998 and 1997,  respectively.  At December 31, 1999, the ESBP
owned 5.2 million shares of CenturyTel common stock.

      The  Company's  contributions  to the ESOP  approximate  the  ESOP's  debt
service less dividends  received by the ESOP  applicable to unallocated  shares.
The ESOP shares  initially  were pledged as collateral for its debt. As the debt
is repaid,  shares are  released  from  collateral  based on the  percentage  of
principal payment to outstanding debt before applying the principal payment.  As
of each year end, such released shares are allocated to active employees.

      The ESOP had  outstanding  debt of $190,000 at December 31, 1999 which was
applicable to shares purchased prior to 1993.  Interest  incurred by the ESOP on
such  debt  was  $49,000,  $148,000  and  $274,000  in  1999,  1998,  and  1997,
respectively.  The Company  contributed and expensed $405,000,  $1.5 million and
$1.8 million  during  1999,  1998 and 1997,  respectively,  with respect to such
shares.  Dividends on unallocated  ESOP shares used for debt service by the ESOP
were $24,000 in 1999,  $69,000 in 1998 and $126,000 in 1997.  The number of ESOP
shares as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 which were purchased  prior to 1993 were
as follows:



      The Company accounts for shares purchased  subsequent to December 31, 1992
in accordance  with  Statement of Position 93-6 ("SOP  93-6").  Accordingly,  as
shares are released from collateral,  the Company reports  compensation  expense
equal  to the  current  market  price  of  the  shares  and  the  shares  become
outstanding  for earnings per share  computations.  Dividends on allocated  ESOP
shares  are  recorded  as  a  reduction  of  retained  earnings;   dividends  on
unallocated  ESOP shares are recorded as a reduction of debt. ESOP  compensation
expense  applicable to shares purchased  subsequent to 1992 was $4.0 million for
1999,  $2.9  million  for 1998 and $1.5  million  for  1997.  The fair  value of
unreleased  ESOP shares  accounted for under SOP 93-6 was $20.0  million,  $23.2
million and $13.5  million at December  31, 1999,  1998 and 1997,  respectively.
ESOP shares purchased  subsequent to 1992 totaled 937,913, of which 515,851 were
allocated and 422,062 were unreleased as of December 31, 1999.

      CenturyTel  also  sponsors a qualified  profit  sharing  plan  pursuant to
Section  401(k) of the  Internal  Revenue  Code  (the  "401(k)  Plan")  which is
available to substantially all employees of the Company.  The Company's matching
contributions to the 401(k) Plan were $6.1 million in 1999, $8.5 million in 1998
and $2.8 million in 1997.

(16)     SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW DISCLOSURES

      The Company  paid  interest of $150.3  million,  $151.4  million and $48.8
million during 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  Income taxes paid were $270.9
million in 1999, $185.9 million in 1998 and $79.3 million in 1997.

      CenturyTel  has  consummated  the  acquisitions  of various  telephone and
cellular  operations,  along with certain other  assets,  during the three years
ended December 31, 1999. In connection  with these  acquisitions,  the following
assets  were  acquired,  liabilities  assumed,  and common and  preferred  stock
issued:



      During  1999  the  Company  sold  substantially  all of  its  Alaska-based
operations;  the  remaining  shares of its  WorldCom  stock;  the  assets of its
cellular  operations in Brownsville  and McAllen,  Texas;  and its Telephone and
Data Systems, Inc. stock. See Note 14 for additional information.

      During  1998 the  Company  sold  various  properties  acquired  in the PTI
acquisition;  a portion of its WorldCom stock; and certain cellular  operations.
See Note 14 for additional information.

      In May  1997  the  Company  sold  its  majority-owned  competitive  access
subsidiary in exchange for approximately  4.3 million shares of  publicly-traded
common  stock.  In November  1997  approximately  85% of such stock was sold. In
addition,  the Company  has  consummated  the  disposition  of various  cellular
operations,  along with  certain  other  assets,  during the three  years  ended
December 31, 1999.

      In connection  with these  dispositions,  the following  assets were sold,
liabilities eliminated, assets received and gain recognized:



(17)     FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

      The following  table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair
values of certain of the Company's financial instruments at December 31, 1999
and 1998.



(1)   Fair value was based on quoted market prices.
(2)   Fair value was estimated by discounting the scheduled payment streams
      to present value based upon rates currently offered to the Company
      for similar debt.
(3)   Fair value was estimated by the Company to approximate carrying value.


Cash and cash equivalents,  accounts receivable, notes payable, accounts payable
and accrued  expenses - The carrying amount  approximates  the fair value due to
the short maturity of these instruments.

(18)     BUSINESS SEGMENTS

      The Company has two  reportable  segments:  telephone  and  wireless.  The
Company's  reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different
products and services. The operating income of these segments is reviewed by the
chief  operating   decision  maker  to  assess  performance  and  make  business
decisions.

      The Company's  telephone  operations are conducted in rural,  suburban and
small  urban  communities  in 20  states.  Approximately  84% of  the  Company's
telephone  access  lines  are in  Wisconsin,  Washington,  Michigan,  Louisiana,
Colorado, Ohio, Oregon and Montana. The Company's wireless customers are located
in Michigan, Louisiana, Wisconsin, Mississippi, Texas, Arkansas and Alaska.


      Other  accounts  receivable  are  primarily  amounts due from various long
distance carriers,  principally AT&T, and several large local exchange operating
companies.

(19)     COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

      Construction expenditures and investments in vehicles, buildings and other
work  equipment  during 2000 are  estimated  to be $250  million  for  telephone
operations,  $100  million  for  wireless  operations  and $65 million for other
operations.

      The Company is involved in various claims and legal actions arising in the
ordinary  course  of  business.  In the  opinion  of  management,  the  ultimate
disposition  of these  matters  will not have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.

(20)     PENDING ACQUISITIONS

      In June 1999,  the Company signed a definitive  asset  purchase  agreement
with  affiliates of GTE Corporation  ("GTE") to purchase GTE's telephone  access
lines (which  numbered  approximately  225,000 at December 31, 1999) and related
local exchange assets in Arkansas for approximately  $845.8 million,  subject to
certain adjustments.

      In July 1999, the Company acquired a 61.5% (56.9% fully-diluted)  interest
in a  newly-organized  joint venture company which has entered into a definitive
asset purchase  agreement with  affiliates of GTE to purchase  telephone  access
lines (which  numbered  approximately  121,000 at December 31, 1999) and related
local exchange  assets in Missouri for  approximately  $290 million,  subject to
certain  adjustments.  The  Company  has  agreed  to  make  a  preferred  equity
investment in the newly organized  company of  approximately  $55 million and to
finance substantially all of the remainder of the purchase price.

      In August 1999, the Company acquired an 89% interest in a  newly-organized
joint  venture  company  which has  entered  into a  definitive  asset  purchase
agreement  with a GTE  affiliate  to  purchase  telephone  access  lines  (which
numbered  approximately  61,700  as of  December  31,  1999) and  related  local
exchange  assets in Wisconsin for  approximately  $170 million cash,  subject to
certain adjustments.  The Company has agreed to make an equity investment in the
newly organized company of approximately  $37.8 million and currently expects to
finance  substantially  all of the remainder of the purchase  price.  In October
1999,  the Company also entered into a definitive  asset  purchase  agreement to
purchase additional telephone access lines (which numbered  approximately 68,200
as of December 31, 1999) and related local  exchange  assets in Wisconsin from a
GTE  affiliate  for  approximately   $195  million  cash,   subject  to  certain
adjustments.

      All of these  transactions  are expected to close mid-year  2000,  pending
regulatory approvals and certain other closing conditions.

(21)     SUBSEQUENT EVENT

     In February  2000, the Company entered into an interest rate hedge contract
designed to reduce its  interest  rate risk with  respect to $100 million of the
long-term debt that it expects to incur in connection with financing its pending
GTE acquisitions.


                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                    Consolidated Quarterly Income Information
                                  (Unaudited)


      Diluted earnings per share for the first, second, third and fourth quarter
of 1999 included $.04,  ($.05),  $.01 and $.05 per share,  respectively,  of net
gain  (loss)  on  sale  or  exchange  of  assets.  See  Note  14 for  additional
information.

      Diluted  earnings per share for both the first quarter and second  quarter
of 1998 included $.11 of net gain on sale or exchange of assets.


Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
              and Financial Disclosure.

      None.

                                    PART III

Item 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

      The name, age and office(s) held by each of the Registrant's  executive
officers are shown below. Each of the executive  officers listed below serves at
the pleasure of the Board of Directors, except Mr. Williams who has entered into
an employment  agreement with the Registrant.  The agreement's  initial term has
lapsed,  but the agreement  remains in effect from year to year,  subject to the
right of Mr. Williams or the Company to terminate such agreement.

Name                     Age      Office(s) held with CenturyTel
- ----                     ---      ------------------------------

Clarke M. Williams        78      Chairman of the Board of Directors

Glen F. Post, III         47      Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                  President and Chief Executive Officer

R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.     48      Executive Vice President and
                                  Chief Financial Officer

Harvey P. Perry           55      Executive Vice President and
                                  Chief Administrative Officer

David D. Cole             42      Senior Vice President - Operational Support

Michael Maslowski         52      Senior Vice President and
                                  Chief Information Officer

      Each of the Registrant's executive officers, except for Mr. Maslowski, has
served as an officer of the  Registrant and one or more of its  subsidiaries  in
varying  capacities  for more than the past five  years.  Mr. Cole has served as
Senior Vice President - Operational  Support since November 1998, as President -
Wireless Group from October 1996 to October 1998 and as Vice President from 1990
to 1996. Mr. Maslowski has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Information
Officer since March 1999.

      The balance of the information  required  by Item 10 is incorporated  by
reference to the Registrant's  definitive  proxy statement  relating to its 2000
annual meeting of stockholders  (the "Proxy  Statement"),  which Proxy Statement
will be filed  pursuant to  Regulation  14A within 120 days after the end of the
last fiscal year.

Item 11.         Executive Compensation.

      The information required by Item 11 is incorporated  by reference to the
Proxy Statement.

Item 12.         Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

      The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference to the
Proxy Statement.

Item 13.         Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

      The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the
Proxy Statement.


                                     PART IV

Item 14.          Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
                  Form 8-K.

          a.      Financial Statements

                  (i)  Consolidated Financial Statements:

                           Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated
                              Financial Statements and Financial Statement
                              Schedules

                           Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
                              December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                           Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for
                              the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1999
                              and 1998

                           Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
                              ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                           Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for
                              the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           Consolidated Quarterly Income Information (unaudited)

                  (ii) Schedules:*

                           I     Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                           II    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                           *     Those schedules not listed above are omitted
                                   as not applicable or not required.

          b.      Reports on Form 8-K.

                  (i)  The following items were reported in a Form 8-K filed
                         November 2, 1999.

                       Item 5. News release announcing third quarter result of
                                operations.

          c.      Exhibits:
                 3(i)          Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
                               Registrant,    dated   as   of   May   6,   1999,
                               (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  3(i) to
                               Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for
                               the quarter ended June 30, 1999).

                 3(ii)         Registrant's Bylaws, as amended through November
                               18, 1999, included elsewhere herein.

                 4.1           Note Purchase Agreement, dated September 1, 1989,
                               between   Registrant,   Teachers   Insurance  and
                               Annuity  Association  of America  and the Lincoln
                               National Life Insurance Company  (incorporated by
                               reference   to  Exhibit   4.23  to   Registrant's
                               Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                               ended September 30, 1989).

                 4.2           Rights  Agreement,  dated as of August 27,  1996,
                               between  Registrant and Society National Bank, as
                               Rights  Agent,   including  the  form  of  Rights
                               Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                               1 of  Registrant's  Current  Report  on Form  8-K
                               filed  August  30,  1996)  and   amendment   No.1
                               thereto,  dated  May 25,  1999  (incorporated  by
                               reference  to  Exhibit  4.2(ii)  to  Registrant's
                               Report on Form 8-K dated May 25, 1999).

                 4.3           Form of common stock certificate of the Regis-
                               trant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
                               to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                               for the quarter ended June 30, 1993).

                 4.4           Indenture dated as of March 31, 1994 between the
                               Company and Regions Bank (formerly First
                               American Bank & Trust of Louisiana), as Trustee
                               (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
                               Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3,
                               Registration No. 33-52915).

                 4.5           Resolutions designating the terms and conditions
                               of the Company's 7-3/4% Senior Notes, Series A,
                               due 2004 and 8-1/4% Senior Notes, Series B, due
                               2024 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
                               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                               the quarter ended March 31, 1994).

                 4.6           Resolutions designating the terms and conditions
                               of the Company's 6.55% Senior Notes, Series C,
                               due 2005 and 7.2% Senior Notes, Series D, due
                               2025 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.27
                               to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                               the year ended December 31, 1995).

                 4.7           Form of Senior Notes described in 4.5 and 4.6
                               above (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3
                               of the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                               S-3, Registration No. 33-52915).

                 4.8           Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility
                               Agreement,  dated as of August  28,  1997,  among
                               Registrant,   the  lenders  named  therein,   and
                               NationsBank  of  Texas,  N.A.   (incorporated  by
                               reference   to   Exhibit   4.1  to   Registrant's
                               Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                               ended September 30, 1997).

                 4.9           Resolutions  designating the terms and conditions
                               of the Company's  6.15% Senior  Notes,  Series E,
                               due 2005; 6.30% Senior Notes, Series F, due 2008;
                               and  6.875%  Debentures,   Series  G,  due  2028,
                               (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.9 to
                               Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
                               year ended December 31, 1997).

                 4.10          Form   of   Board   Resolution   to  be  used  in
                               designating   and   authorizing   the  terms  and
                               conditions   of  any   series  of   Senior   Debt
                               Securities  issuable  under the  Company's  shelf
                               registration statement (incorporated by reference
                               to  Exhibit  4.3  of the  Company's  Registration
                               Statement   on   Form   S-3,   Registration   No.
                               333-42013).

                 4.11          Form of Senior Debt Securities described in 4.9
                               above (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4
                               of the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                               S-3, Registration No. 333-42013).

                 4.12          First   Supplemental   Indenture,   dated  as  of
                               November 2, 1998, to Indenture between CenturyTel
                               of the  Northwest,  Inc.  and The First  National
                               Bank of Chicago  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                               Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's  Quarterly Report on
                               Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  September  30,
                               1998).

                 10.1          Employee Benefit Plans

                               (a)   Registrant's Employee Stock Ownership Plan
                                     and Trust, as amended and restated December
                                     30, 1994 (incorporated by reference to
                                     Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly
                                     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                                     March 31, 1995), amendment thereto dated
                                     January 26, 1996 (incorporated by reference
                                     to Exhibit 10.1(a) to Registrant's Annual
                                     Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                                     December 31, 1995) and amendment thereto
                                     dated July 15, 1996 (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's
                                     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                                     quarter ended June 30, 1996), and amendment
                                     thereto dated December 31, 1996 (incorp-
                                     orated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
                                     Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                                     for the quarter ended March 31, 1997), and
                                     amendment thereto dated March 18, 1997
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
                                     to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997),
                                     and amendments thereto dated January 1,
                                     1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.3 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                                     1997), and amendment thereto dated December
                                     29, 1998 (incorporated by reference to
                                     Exhibit 10.1 (a) to Registrant's Annual
                                     Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                                     December 31, 1998).

                               (b)   Registrant's Stock Bonus Plan, PAYSOP and
                                     Trust, as amended and restated December 30,
                                     1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                                     1995), amendment thereto dated July 11,
                                     1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.4 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                                     1995), amendment thereto dated January 26,
                                     1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1(b) to Registrant's Annual Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                                     1995) and amendment thereto dated July 15,
                                     1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                                     1996), and amendment thereto dated December
                                     31, 1996 (incorporated by  reference to
                                     Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's Quarterly
                                     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                                     March 31, 1997), and amendments thereto
                                     dated January 1, 1997 (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's
                                     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                                     quarter ended June 30, 1997), and amendment
                                     thereto dated December 29, 1998 (incorpor-
                                     ated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 (b) to
                                     Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                                     the year ended December 31, 1998).

                               (c)   Registrant's   Dollars  &  Sense  Plan  and
                                     Trust,  as amended and restated,  effective
                                     January 1, 1998 and amendment thereto dated
                                     December   29,   1998    (incorporated   by
                                     reference    to   Exhibit   10.1   (c)   to
                                     Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                                     the year ended December 31, 1998).

                               (d)   Registrant's      Restated     Supplemental
                                     Executive    Retirement   Plan,   generally
                                     effective   as   of   November   16,   1995
                                     (incorporated   by   reference  to  Exhibit
                                     10.1(d) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                                     1995) and amendment  thereto dated November
                                     21,  1996  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                                     Exhibit  10.1(d)  to  Registrant's   Annual
                                     Report  on Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                                     December 31, 1996).

                               (e)   Registrant's  1983  Restricted  Stock Plan,
                                     dated  February  21,  1984,  as amended and
                                     restated   as   of   November    16,   1995
                                     (incorporated   by   reference  to  Exhibit
                                     10.1(e) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                                     1995) and amendment  thereto dated November
                                     21,  1996,  (incorporated  by  reference to
                                     Exhibit  10.1(e)  to  Registrant's   Annual
                                     Report  on Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                                     December 31, 1996),  and amendment  thereto
                                     dated  February 25, 1997  (incorporated  by
                                     reference to Exhibit  10.3 to  Registrant's
                                     Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
                                     quarter ended March 31, 1997).

                               (f)   Registrant's    Key   Employee    Incentive
                                     Compensation  Plan,  dated January 1, 1984,
                                     as amended and  restated as of November 16,
                                     1995  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1(f) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                                     1995) and amendment  thereto dated November
                                     21,  1996  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                                     Exhibit  10.1  (f) to  Registrant's  Annual
                                     Report  on Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                                     December 31, 1996),  and amendment  thereto
                                     dated  February 25, 1997  (incorporated  by
                                     reference to Exhibit  10.2 to  Registrant's
                                     Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
                                     quarter ended March 31, 1997).

                               (g)   Registrant's  1988  Incentive  Compensation
                                     Program as amended and restated  August 22,
                                     1989  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     19.8 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  September
                                     30,  1989)  and  amendment   thereto  dated
                                     November   21,   1996    (incorporated   by
                                     reference    to    Exhibit    10.1(g)    to
                                     Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                                     the year ended December 31, 1996).

                               (h)   Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into
                                     in 1988 by the Registrant, pursuant to 1988
                                     Incentive    Compensation   Program,   with
                                     certain of its  officers  (incorporated  by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.10 to  Registrant's
                                     Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  for the year
                                     ended  December  31,  1988)  and  amendment
                                     thereto   (incorporated   by  reference  to
                                     Exhibit  4.6 to  Registrant's  Registration
                                     No. 33-31314).

                               (i)   Registrant's  1990  Incentive  Compensation
                                     Program, dated March 15, 1990 (incorporated
                                     by    reference    to   Exhibit   19.1   to
                                     Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                                     for the  quarter  ended June 30,  1990) and
                                     amendment  thereto dated  November 21, 1996
                                     (incorporated   by   reference  to  Exhibit
                                     10.1(i) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                                     1996).

                               (j)   Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into
                                     in 1990 by the Registrant, pursuant to 1990
                                     Incentive    Compensation   Program,   with
                                     certain of its  officers  (incorporated  by
                                     reference to Exhibit  19.3 to  Registrant's
                                     Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
                                     quarter  ended June 30, 1990) and amendment
                                     thereto   dated   as  of   May   22,   1995
                                     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                                     to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter  ended  September  30,
                                     1995).

                               (k)   Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into
                                     in 1992 by the Registrant, pursuant to 1990
                                     Incentive    Compensation   Program,   with
                                     certain  of  its  officers  and   employees
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17
                                     to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                                     for the year ended  December  31, 1992) and
                                     amendment  thereto dated as of May 22, 1995
                                     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.2
                                     to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter  ended  September  30,
                                     1995).

                               (l)   Registrant's  1995  Incentive  Compensation
                                     Plan approved by Registrant's  shareholders
                                     on May 11, 1995  (incorporated by reference
                                     to   Exhibit   4.4  to   Registration   No.
                                     33-60061)  and   amendment   thereto  dated
                                     November   21,   1996    (incorporated   by
                                     Reference    to   Exhibit   10.1   (l)   to
                                     Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                                     the year  ended  December  31,  1996),  and
                                     amendment  thereto dated  February 25, 1997
                                     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                                     to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997).

                               (m)   Form of Stock Option Agreement, pursuant to
                                     1995 Incentive  Compensation Plan and dated
                                     as  of  May  22,  1995,   entered  into  by
                                     Registrant  and its officers  (incorporated
                                     by    reference    to   Exhibit   10.5   to
                                     Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                                     for the quarter ended June 30, 1995).

                               (n)   Form of Stock Option Agreement, pursuant to
                                     1995 Incentive  Compensation Plan and dated
                                     as  of  June  23,  1995,  entered  into  by
                                     Registrant   and  certain   key   employees
                                     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.6
                                     to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995).

                               (o)   Registrant's  Restated Supplemental Defined
                                     Contribution Plan, dated as of November 16,
                                     1995  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1(q) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                                     1995),  amendment  thereto  dated  July 15,
                                     1996  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.4 to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,
                                     1996) and amendment  thereto dated November
                                     21,  1996  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                                     Exhibit  10.1  (p) to  Registrant's  Annual
                                     Report  on Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                                     December 31, 1996).

                               (p)   Registrant's Amended and Restated Supple-
                                     mental Dollars & Sense Plan, effective
                                     as of January 1, 1999 (incorporated by ref-
                                     erence to Exhibit 10.1(q) to Registrant's
                                     Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                                     ended December 31, 1998).

                               (q)   Registrant's Amended and Restated Salary
                                     Continuation (Disability)Plan for Officers,
                                     dated November 26, 1991 (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.16 of  Registrant's
                                     Annual Report on Form  10-K  for the  year
                                     ended December 31, 1991).

                               (r)   Registrant's  Restated  Outside  Directors'
                                     Retirement Plan, dated as of November  16,
                                     1995 (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1(t) to Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,
                                     1995).

                               (s)   Registrant's Restated Deferred Compensation
                                     Plan  for  Outside  Directors,  dated as of
                                     November   16,   1995    (incorporated   by
                                     reference    to    Exhibit    10.1(u)    to
                                     Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                                     the year ended December 31, 1995).

                               (t)   Form of Stock Option Agreement, pursuant to
                                     1995 Incentive  Compensation Plan and dated
                                     as of February  21,  2000,  entered into by
                                     Registrant   and  its  officers,   included
                                     elsewhere herein.

                               (u)   Registrant's    Chairman/Chief    Executive
                                     Officer   Short-Term    Incentive   Program
                                     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.6
                                     to  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).

                               (v)   Form of Amended and Restated  Restricted
                                     Stock and Performance Share Agreement dated
                                     as of March 16, 1998, relating to equity
                                     incentive awards granted in 1997  pursuant
                                     to Registrant's 1995 Incentive Compensation
                                     Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form  10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                                     1998).

                               (w)   Form of  Restricted  Stock and  Performance
                                     Share Agreement dated as of March 16, 1998,
                                     relating to equity incentive awards granted
                                     in 1998 pursuant to Registrant's 1995
                                     Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated
                                     by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
                                     Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                                     for the  quarter  ended March 31, 1998).

                               (x)   Form of Restricted Stock and Performance
                                     Share Agreement, dated as of February 22,
                                     1999, relating to equity incentive awards
                                     granted in 1999 pursuant to the
                                     Registrant's 1995 Incentive Compensation
                                     Plan, included elsewhere herein.

                               (y)   Registrant's  Supplemental  Defined Benefit
                                     Plan,  effective  as  of  January  1,  1999
                                     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                                     (y) to  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form
                                     10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998).

                               (z)   Registrant's     Amended    and    Restated
                                     Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1,
                                     1999  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1 (z) to  Registrant's  Annual Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                                     1998).

                  10.2          Employment, Severance and Related Agreements

                               (a)   Employment  Agreement,  dated May 24, 1993,
                                     by  and  between  Clarke  M.  Williams  and
                                     Registrant  (incorporated  by  reference to
                                     Exhibit  19.1  to  Registrant's   Quarterly
                                     Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended
                                     June 30, 1993) and amendment  thereto dated
                                     as of February  27, 1996  (incorporated  by
                                     reference    to    Exhibit    10.2(a)    to
                                     Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                                     the year ended December 31, 1995).

                               (b)   Form  of  Amended  and  Restated  Severance
                                     Agreement,  by and between  Registrant  and
                                     each of its executive  officers  other than
                                     Clarke M.  Williams,  dated as of  November
                                     16,  1995  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                                     Exhibit  10.2(b)  to  Registrant's   Annual
                                     Report  on Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                                     December 31, 1995).

                               (c)   Form  of  Amended  and  Restated  Severance
                                     Agreement,  by and between  Registrant  and
                                     three of its officers who are not executive
                                     officers,  dated as of  November  16,  1995
                                     (incorporated   by   reference  to  Exhibit
                                     10.2(c) to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                                     1995).

                               (d)   Agreement,  dated December 31, 1994, by and
                                     between  Jim  D.  Reppond  and   Registrant
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24
                                     to Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                                     for the year ended December 31, 1994).

                               (e)   Consulting  Agreement,  dated as of July 2,
                                     1996, by and between  Registrant and Jim D.
                                     Reppond   (incorporated   by  reference  to
                                     Exhibit 10 to Registrant's Quarterly Report
                                     on  Form   10-Q  for  the   quarter   ended
                                     September 30, 1996).

                  10.3         Other Agreements

                               (a)   Asset Purchase Agreement between Registrant
                                     and  affiliates of GTE, dated June 29, 1999
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99 to
                                     Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                                     for the quarter ended June 30, 1999).

                  21           Subsidiaries of the Registrant, included
                                  elsewhere herein.

                  23           Independent Auditors' Consent, included
                                 elsewhere herein.

                  27           Financial Data Schedule, included elsewhere
                                 herein.




                                   SIGNATURES


       Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                               CenturyTel, Inc.,


Date:   March 15, 2000                        By: /s/ Clarke M. Williams
                                                   ----------------------
                                                   Clarke M. Williams
                                                   Chairman of the Board

       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.



/s/ Clarke M. Williams
- ----------------------------     Chairman of the Board
Clarke M. Williams                 of Directors                  March 15, 2000


                                 Vice Chairman of the
/s/ Glen F. Post, III              Board of Directors,
- ----------------------------       President, and Chief
Glen F. Post, III                  Executive Officer             March 15, 2000



/s/ R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.       Executive Vice President and
- ----------------------------      Chief Financial Officer
R. Stewart Ewing, Jr              (Principal Accounting Officer) March 15, 2000



/s/ Harvey P. Perry             Executive Vice President,
- ----------------------------      Chief Administrative Officer
Harvey P. Perry                   and Director                   March 15, 2000



/s/ W. Bruce Hanks
- ----------------------------    Vice President Strategic Issues
W. Bruce Hanks                    and Director                   March 15, 2000



/s/ William R. Boles, Jr.
- ----------------------------
William R. Boles, Jr.           Director                         March 15, 2000



/s/ Virginia Boulet
- ----------------------------
Virginia Boulet                 Director                         March 15, 2000




- ----------------------------
Ernest Butler, Jr.              Director                         March 15, 2000



/s/ Calvin Czeschin
- ----------------------------
Calvin Czeschin                 Director                         March 15, 2000



/s/ James B. Gardner
- ----------------------------
James B. Gardner                Director                         March 15, 2000



/s/ R. L. Hargrove, Jr.
- ----------------------------
R. L. Hargrove, Jr.             Director                         March 15, 2000



/s/ Johnny Hebert
- ----------------------------
Johnny Hebert                   Director                         March 15, 2000



/s/ F. Earl Hogan
- ----------------------------
F. Earl Hogan                   Director                         March 15, 2000



/s/ C. G. Melville, Jr.
- ----------------------------
C. G. Melville, Jr.             Director                         March 15, 2000



/s/ Jim D. Reppond
- ----------------------------
Jim D. Reppond                  Director                         March 15, 2000






           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                              STATEMENTS OF INCOME



See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.




           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                  (continued)
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                                 BALANCE SHEETS


See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.



           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (Continued)
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.




           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                  (continued)
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
             NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT



(A)    LONG-TERM DEBT

       The approximate  annual debt maturities for the five years  subsequent to
December 31, 1999 are as follows:

                          2000    -  $   37.4 million
                          2001    -  $   56.6 million
                          2002    -  $  302.3 million
                          2003    -  $    3.8 million
                          2004    -  $   50.5 million

(B)    GUARANTEES

       As of December 31, 1999, CenturyTel has guaranteed debt of subsidiaries
totaling $325.8 million.

(C)    DIVIDENDS FROM SUBSIDIARIES

       Dividends paid to CenturyTel by consolidated subsidiaries were $162.1
million, $116.9 million and $117.5 million during 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

(D)    INCOME TAXES AND INTEREST PAID

       Income taxes paid by CenturyTel (including amounts reimbursed from
subsidiaries) were $217.0 million, $162.0 million and $71.8 million during 1999,
1998, and 1997 respectively.

       Interest paid by CenturyTel was $118.5 million, $114.7 million and $42.4
million during 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

(E)    AFFILIATED TRANSACTIONS

       CenturyTel provides and bills management services to subsidiaries and in
certain instances makes interest bearing advances to finance construction of
plant and purchases of equipment. CenturyTel recorded intercompany interest
income of $47.8 million, $39.7 million and $26.6 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.


                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.

              For the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997



