
10-K
FORM 10-K FYE 12/31/93


                                    UNITED STATES
                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                               Washington, D.C.  20549

                                      FORM 10-K

             [ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                           Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993

                                         or

            [   ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                           Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                        Commission file number         1-7784

                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.

             A Louisiana Corporation         I.R.S. Employer Identification
                                                     No. 72-0651161

                   100 Century Park Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203

                           Telephone number (318) 388-9500

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:Common
          Stock, par value $1.00

          Exchange on which registered:New York Stock Exchange

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

          Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all
          reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
          for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file
          such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
          for the past 90 days.
                                                           Yes [X]  No [    ]

          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
          to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
          be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
          proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
          III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [    ]

          As of February 28, 1994, the aggregate market value of voting stock
          held by non-affiliates (affiliates being for this purpose only
          directors and executive officers) was approximately $1,378,192,000.

          As of February 28, 1994, there were 53,230,538 shares of common
          stock outstanding.

                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

          Portions of the Proxy Statement prepared in connection with the
          1994 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated in Part III of
          this Report.

          Appendix I of the Prospectus forming a part of Registration
          Statement No. 33-50791 filed January 12, 1994 pursuant to Rule
          424(b)(5) is incorporated in Part IV of this Report.
                                          



                                       
                                       PART I



          Item 1.    Business.


              Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. ("Century") is a regional

          diversified telecommuni-cations company that is primarily engaged

          in providing traditional telephone services and mobile

          communications services.  For the year ended December 31, 1993,

          telephone operations and mobile communications operations provided

          80% and 20%, respectively, of the consolidated revenues of Century

          and its subsidiaries (the "Company").  All of the Company's

          operations are conducted within the continental United States.



              At December 31, 1993 the Company's telephone subsidiaries

          operated over 434,000 telephone access lines, primarily in rural,

          suburban and small urban areas in 14 states, with the largest

          customer bases located in Wisconsin, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio and

          Arkansas.  Based on the number of access lines served, the Company

          is the fifteenth largest local exchange telephone company in the

          United States.



              Whenever used herein with respect to the Company, (i) the term

          "pops" means the population of licensed cellular telephone markets

          (based on 1993 population estimates of Donnelly Marketing

          Information Services) multiplied by the Company's proportionate

          equity interests in the licensed operators thereof, (ii) the term

          "MSA" means any Metropolitan Statistical Area for which the

          Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC") has granted a

          cellular operating license and (iii) the term "RSA" means any

          Rural Service Area for which the FCC has granted a cellular

          operating license.



              Through its cellular operations, including those operations

          acquired in February 1994, the Company controls approximately 7.1

          million pops in 27 MSAs, primarily concentrated in Michigan,

          Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas, and 32 RSAs, most of which are

          in Michigan, Louisiana, Arkansas and Wisconsin.  The Company is

          the majority owner and operator in 18 of the MSAs and 13 of the

          RSAs, which collectively represent 5.5 million pops, and has

          minority interests in nine other MSAs and 19 other RSAs, which

          collectively represent 1.6 million pops.  Of the Company's 7.1

          million pops, approximately 73% are attributable to the Company's

          MSA interests, with the balance attributable to its RSA interests.

          Based on the population of the Company's majority-owned and

          operated MSAs and RSAs, the Company is the fifteenth largest

          operator of cellular telephone systems in the United States.  At

          December 31, 1993, the Company's majority-owned cellular systems

          had more than 116,000 cellular subscribers, not 

          

          including approximately 28,000 subscribers acquired by the Company 
          
          in connection with its February 1994 acquisition of Celutel, Inc.

          described further below.  The Company also provides paging

          services to customers residing in Louisiana and Michigan in

          conjunction with the operation of its cellular systems.



              The FCC has awarded only two licenses to provide cellular

          service in each market.  During its licensing process, the FCC

          reserved one license for companies offering local telephone

          service in the market (the wireline carrier) and one license for

          entities unaffiliated with the local telephone company (the non-

          wireline carrier).  Each of the MSAs that the Company operated as

          of December 31, 1993 and all but one of the RSAs operated by the

          Company are wireline markets.



              In April 1993 the Company acquired San Marcos Telephone

          Company, Inc. ("SMTC") and SM Telecorp, Inc., an affiliate of

          SMTC.  As a result of these acquisitions, the Company acquired

          approximately 22,500 telephone access lines in and around San

          Marcos, Texas, along with a 35% ownership interest in the Austin,

          Texas MSA wireline cellular market and a 9.6% interest in the

          Texas RSA #16 wireline cellular market, together representing

          approximately 327,000 pops.



              In September 1993 the Company signed a definitive merger

          agreement to acquire a local exchange telephone company in

          Michigan which serves approximately 2,400 access lines and owns

          approximately 11% (representing approximately 33,000 pops) of a

          Michigan cellular partnership which holds the wireline licenses

          for two RSA cellular markets operated by the Company.  This

          transaction is expected to be completed in March 1994.



              In February 1994 the Company acquired Celutel, Inc.

          ("Celutel"), which provides cellular mobile telephone services to

          approximately 28,000 customers in three MSA non-wireline cellular

          markets in Mississippi and two MSA non-wireline cellular markets

          in Texas which have a combined population of 1.4 million.

          Celutel's share of the pops is approximately 1.1 million.



              The Company is continually evaluating the possibility of

          acquiring additional telephone access lines and cellular interests

          in exchange for either cash, securities or both.  Although the

          Company's primary focus will continue to be on acquiring telephone

          and cellular interests that are proximate to its properties or

          that serve a customer base large enough for the Company to operate

          efficiently, other communications interests may also be acquired.




              Partially as a result of 1993 acquisitions, the Company also

          provides long distance, operator and interactive services in

          certain local and regional markets, as well as certain printing

          and related services.  The results of these operations, which are

          not material individually or in the aggregate, are recorded for

          financial reporting purposes as other income, net.



              Century was incorporated under Louisiana law in 1968 to serve

          as a holding company for several telephone companies acquired over

          the previous 15 to 20 years.  Century's principal executive

          offices are located at 100 Century Park Drive, Monroe, Louisiana

          71203 and its telephone number is (318) 388-9500.  As of December

          31, 1993, the Company employed approximately 2,800 persons, of

          which approximately 200 were covered by a collective bargaining

          agreement.



                                TELEPHONE OPERATIONS



              The Company is the fifteenth largest local exchange telephone

          company in the United States, based on the more than 434,000

          access lines it served at December 31, 1993.  An access line is a

          single or multi-party circuit between a customer's business or

          residence and a central switching office.  Through its operating

          telephone subsidiaries, Century provides services to predominately

          rural, suburban and small urban markets in 14 states, with

          Wisconsin, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio and Arkansas accounting for

          the greatest share of access lines served.



              Future growth in telephone operations is expected to be

          derived from (i) acquiring additional telephone companies, (ii)

          providing service to new customers, (iii) upgrading existing

          customers to higher grades of service, (iv) increasing network

          usage and (v) providing additional services made possible by

          advances in technology.  For information on developing competitive

          trends, see "-Regulation and Competition."



              The replacement of mechanical switches with digital switches

          is an important component of the Company's growth strategy because

          it allows the Company to offer new services (such as call

          forwarding, conference calling, caller identification, selective

          call ringing and call waiting) and to thereby increase utilization

          of existing access lines.  In 1993 the Company expanded its list

          of premium services offered in certain service areas and plans to

          aggressively market these services in 1994.  In addition, with

          digital switching the Company has been able to construct central

          electronic monitoring facilities that allow employees to detect

          operating malfunctions in digital switches and, in many cases, to

          correct the malfunctions without a site visit by the Company's

          personnel, thereby reducing maintenance costs.  Progress toward

          increased digital switching of 
          

          
          the Company's telephone systems is demonstrated by the change in 
          
          the number of digitally switched lines as a percentage of total 
          
          lines, which increased from 19% in 1982 to 93% in 1993.



              In addition, the Company is installing fiber optic cable in

          certain areas in which it operates and has provided alternative

          routing of telephone service over fiber optic cable networks in

          two of its larger operating areas.



          Services



              The Company's telephone subsidiaries derive revenue from

          providing (i) local telephone services, (ii) network access and

          long distance services and (iii) other related services.  The

          following table reflects the percentage of total telephone

          revenues derived from these respective services:



                                             1993      1992     1991
                                            _________________________

          Local service                      25.4%     26.3      24.9
          Network access and long distance   62.3      61.4      61.6
          Other                              12.3      12.3      13.5
                                            _________________________
                                            100.0%    100.0     100.0
                                            =========================

              Local service revenues are generated by the provision of local

          exchange telephone services in the Company's franchised service

          areas.



              Network access and long distance revenues primarily relate to

          services provided to interexchange carriers (long distance

          carriers) in connection with the origination and termination of

          long distance telephone calls.  Substantially all of the Company's

          interstate network access revenues are derived through pooling

          arrangements administered by the National Exchange Carrier

          Association ("NECA").  NECA receives access charges billed by the

          Company and other participating local exchange carriers ("LECs")

          to interstate long distance carriers for their use of the

          participating LECs' local exchange networks to complete long

          distance calls and subsequently distributes these revenues to such

          LECs based on cost separations studies or average schedule

          settlement agreements.  The charges billed to the long distance

          carriers are based on tariffed access rates filed with the FCC by

          NECA on behalf of the Company and other participating LECs.

          Interstate revenues as a percentage of total telephone revenues

          amounted to 32.1%, 31.4% and 31.0% in 1993, 1992 and 1991,

          respectively.




              Certain of the Company's intrastate network access revenues

          are derived through access charges billed by the Company directly

          to intrastate long distance carriers.  Such intrastate network

          access charges are based on access tariffs which are subject to

          state regulatory commission approval.  Additionally, certain of

          the Company's telephone subsidiaries' intrastate  network access

          revenues, along with intrastate long distance revenues, are

          derived through state pooling arrangements and are determined

          based on cost separation studies or special settlement

          arrangements.  The various intrastate access charges and state

          pooling arrangements are intended to compensate LECs for the use

          of their facilities furnished in originating and terminating

          intrastate long distance telephone calls.



              Other revenues include revenues related to non-regulated

          telecommunications equipment and services, billing and collection

          services for interexchange carriers, network facilities leases and

          directory revenues.



              For further information on the regulation of the Company's

          revenues, see "-Regulation and Competition."



          Federal Financing Programs



              Certain of the Company's telephone subsidiaries receive long-

          term financing from the Rural Electrification Administration

          ("REA"), the Rural Telephone Bank ("RTB") and the Federal

          Financing Bank ("FFB").  The REA has made long-term loans to

          telephone companies since 1949 for the purpose of improving

          telephone service in rural areas.  The REA continues to make new

          loans at interest rates that range from 5% to 7% based on borrower

          qualifications and the cost of money to the United States

          government.  The RTB, established in 1971, makes long-term loans

          at an interest rate based on its average cost of funds as

          determined by statutory formula (6.35% for the fiscal year ended

          September 30, 1993), and in some cases makes loans concurrently

          with REA loans.  In addition, the REA guarantees certain loans

          made to telephone companies by the FFB or other qualified lenders.

          A significant portion of the Company's telephone plant is pledged

          or is subject to mortgages to secure obligations of the Company's

          telephone subsidiaries to the REA, RTB and FFB.  The amount of

          common stock dividends that may be paid by the Company's

          telephone subsidiaries is limited by certain financial

          requirements set forth in the mortgages.



              Certain of the Company's telephone subsidiaries have made

          applications for additional loans from the REA and RTB and intend

          to make further applications as needs arise.  There is no

          assurance that these applications will be accepted or that the

          terms or interest rates of any future 
                      

 
          
          loan commitments will remain favorable.  Federal budget proposals 
          
          which could significantly reduce the availability of new loan 
          
          commitments to the Company's telephone subsidiaries under the REA 
          
          and RTB programs in future fiscal years were considered in recent 
          
          years and are expected to continue to be considered.  If the 
          
          Company's telephone subsidiaries are unable to borrow additional 
          
          funds through the REA and RTB programs and are forced to borrow from 
          
          conventional lenders at market rates, the Company's cost of new loans 
          
          might increase.



              For additional information regarding the Company's financings,

          see the Company's consolidated financial statements included in

          Item 8 herein.



          Regulation and Competition



              Traditionally, LECs have operated as regulated monopolies.

          Consequently, the majority of the Company's telephone operations

          are regulated by various state regulatory agencies (generally

          called public service commissions or public utility commissions)

          and by the FCC.  Although it is anticipated that regulation will

          continue for some time, the form or degree of such regulation is

          unknown.  As discussed in greater detail below under "-

          Developments Affecting Competition," in recent years various

          aspects of federal and state regulation have been subject to

          reexamination and ongoing modification.  As further indicated

          below, it is expected that regulation will decrease and

          competition will increase in the traditionally monopolistic

          portions of the industry.



              Regulation of Rates and Related Matters.  The FCC regulates

          the interstate services provided by the Company's telephone

          subsidiaries.  This regulation primarily consists of the

          regulation of interstate access charges that are billed to

          interexchange carriers by the Company for use of its local network

          in connection with the origination and termination of interstate

          telephone calls.  Additionally, the FCC prescribes rules and

          regulations for telephone companies, including a uniform system of

          accounts and rules regarding the separation of costs between

          jurisdictions and, ultimately, between services.



              Effective January 1, 1991 the FCC adopted price-cap regulation

          relating to interstate access rates for the regional Bell

          operating companies and GTE.  An annual opportunity to elect

          price-cap regulation is available for other LECs.   Under price-

          cap regulation, limits imposed on a company's interstate rates

          will be adjusted periodically to reflect inflation, productivity

          improvement and changes in certain non-controllable costs.  This

          alternative form of regulation took effect for AT&T's interstate

          rates on July 1, 1989.  In May 1993 the FCC adopted an optional

          incentive regulatory plan for LECs not subject to price-cap

          regulation.  A LEC electing 
          



          the optional incentive regulatory plan would, among other things, 
          
          file tariffs based primarily on historical costs and not be 
          
          allowed to participate in the relevant NECA pooling 
          
          arrangements.  The Company has not elected price-cap

          regulation or the incentive regulatory plan, but will continue to

          reevaluate its options on a periodic basis.  Consequently, the

          Company's telephone subsidiaries' authorized interstate access

          rate of return is 11.25%, which is the rate established by the FCC

          for LECs not governed by price-cap regulation or the optional

          incentive regulatory plan.



              The local service rates and intrastate access charges of

          substantially all of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are

          regulated by state public service commissions.  Most of these

          commissions also (i) regulate the sale and acquisition of LECs,

          (ii) prescribe depreciation rates and certain accounting

          procedures and (iii) regulate various other matters, including

          certain service standards and operating procedures.  In certain

          states, construction and/or financing plans are also subject to

          regulatory approval.



              In recent years, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin and a limited

          number of other state legislatures and regulatory commissions have

          begun to relax the regulation of LECs, including rates and

          earnings.  Other states have announced their intention to study

          these issues and it is expected that several such states,

          including states in which the Company operates, may also relax

          their regulation of LECs.  This relaxed regulatory oversight of

          certain of the Company's telephone operations may permit the

          Company to offer new and competitive services faster than under

          the traditional regulatory process.  Coincident with these efforts

          is the introduction of competition into traditionally monopolistic

          segments of the industry.  For a more detailed discussion of these

          developments, see "-Developments Affecting Competition".



              Substantially all of the state commissions that have

          regulatory jurisdiction over the Company's telephone operations

          have statutory authority to initiate and conduct earnings reviews

          of the LECs that they regulate.  The specific limits of their

          authority vary depending upon the state and their particular

          statutory authority with respect to rate of return regulation and

          authorized returns.  As indicated above, several states are moving

          away from traditional rate of return regulation, which reduces

          both the incentive and authority that the respective regulatory

          commissions have with respect to earnings reviews.  Century does

          not currently have any operating telephone company subject to a

          formal earnings investigation.  However, all independent LECs in

          Louisiana have been the subject of an informal earnings review by

          the Louisiana Public Service Commission during 1993.  There is no

          assurance that this informal review (or any other future review in

          Louisiana or any other state) will not lead to future revenue

          reductions.  Moreover, in light of the movement away from

          traditional rate of return regulation, 
          


          
          
          no assurance can be given that the Company's telephone 
          
          subsidiaries will continue to earn the same rate of return 
          
          that they achieved in 1993.



              Most of the Company's telephone subsidiaries concur with the

          common line and traffic sensitive tariffs filed by NECA and

          participate in the access revenue pools administered by NECA for

          interstate services.  All of the Company's telephone subsidiaries'

          long distance and intrastate network access revenues are based on

          access charges, cost separation studies or special settlement

          arrangements.  See "-Services."



              Recently, the FCC and certain state public utility commissions

          have explored or implemented initiatives to reduce the funding of

          certain support mechanisms that have traditionally benefited LECs

          serving small communities and rural areas.  In 1993 the eight-year

          phase-in of the FCC's mandated Universal Service Fund ("USF") was

          completed.  In December 1993 the FCC adopted a provision which

          places certain limitations, including a cap, on the USF growth

          rate during 1994 and 1995.  The Company anticipates that,

          subsequent to 1993, revenues from the USF will continue to

          increase in the near term, but at a lesser percentage rate than

          that associated with recent prior periods. The FCC has announced

          that it intends to comprehensively study the USF during 1994 and

          1995 to determine if permanent rule changes should be effected.

          In addition, the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin ("PSCW")

          has ordered the existing Wisconsin state support fund to be

          phased-out over one and one-half years beginning July 1, 1993.

          Certain of the Company's subsidiaries affected by the order have

          filed requests with the PSCW to receive increased rates and/or

          compensation which could potentially offset some or all of the

          amounts that those subsidiaries have been receiving from such

          support fund.  All such additional revenue must be justified based

          on each subsidiary's financial need as demonstrated by an

          expedited rate case.



              Certain long distance carriers have requested the Company to

          reduce intrastate access tariffed rates for certain of its

          telephone subsidiaries.  Although intrastate access tariffed rates

          are  subject to state regulatory commission approval, there is no

          assurance that final resolution of these requests will not result

          in reduced intrastate access revenues.



              Developments Affecting Competition.  Primarily as a result of

          regulatory and technological changes, competition has been

          introduced and encouraged in certain sectors of the telephone

          industry, including interstate and intrastate toll, special access

          services and customer premise equipment.  In 1992 the FCC took a

          step toward introducing competition in the local exchange access

          business by ordering that competitive access providers,

          interexchange carriers and others 
          


          
          have the right to directly interconnect facilities to the central 
          
          offices of certain larger (Tier One) telephone companies for the 
          
          provision of interstate special transport access services.  The 
          
          intent of this order and other related FCC decisions 
          
          is to allow interstate special access competition with 
          
          telephone companies and provide telephone companies with 
          
          limited pricing flexibility.  In a related proceeding the 
          
          FCC also issued proposals to expand competitive interconnection 
          
          to LECs'  switched access services in the future.

          Principally as a result of these and other regulatory actions,

          competition from competitive access providers and others has

          increased and is expected to continue to increase.  Certain states

          are considering steps that would further introduce competition

          into the LEC business.  Moreover, certain well-established

          interexchange carriers have publicly announced their desire to

          enter the LEC business.  Although local exchange competition and

          competitive access are expected to initially affect large urban

          areas to a greater extent than rural, suburban and small urban

          areas such as those in which the Company's telephone operations

          are located, there is no assurance that these developments will

          not have an adverse effect on the Company in the future.



              Certain providers and users of toll service may seek to bypass

          LECs' switching services and local distribution facilities,

          particularly if services are not strategically priced.  There are

          three primary ways which users of toll service may bypass the

          Company's switching services.  First, users may construct and

          operate or lease facilities to transmit their traffic to an

          interexchange carrier.  Second, certain interexchange carriers

          provide services which allow users to divert their traffic from

          LECs' usage-sensitive services to their flat-rate services.

          Third, users may choose to use mobile communications services to

          bypass LECs' switching services.  Within the past two years, each

          of the three largest interexchange carriers in the United States

          has acquired, or has entered into preliminary or definitive

          agreements to acquire interests in mobile communications

          companies, presumably in part to obtain bypass capabilities.

          Although certain of the Company's telephone subsidiaries have

          experienced a loss of traffic to such bypass, the impact of such

          loss on revenues has not been significant.  The Company and the

          exchange carrier industry are seeking to address bypass by

          adopting flexible pricing of access and toll services where

          appropriate, although no assurance can be given as to the ultimate

          outcome of these efforts.



              As the mobile communications industry matures, the Company

          anticipates that existing and emerging mobile communications

          technologies will increasingly compete with traditional LEC

          services.  Technological and regulatory developments in cellular

          telephone, personal communications services, digital microwave,

          coaxial cable, fiber optics and other wired and wireless

          technologies are expected to further permit the development of

          alternatives to traditional 
          


          
          landline services .  For further information on these 
          
          developments, see "Mobile Communications Operations - Regulation 
          
          and Competition."



              In connection with the well-publicized convergence of

          telecommunications, cable, video, computer and other technologies,

          several large companies have recently announced plans to offer

          products that would significantly enhance current communications

          and data transmission services and, in some instances, introduce

          new two-way video, entertainment, data, consumer and other

          multimedia services.  In particular, several large cable

          television companies have announced plans that, if successfully

          implemented, could provide significant competition with LECs'

          traditional services.  Other companies with wireline experience

          (including electric utilities) are expected to explore

          opportunities in this market, along with wireless companies and

          other emerging technology companies.  Although the development of

          new multimedia services is expected to initially have a greater

          effect on larger urban areas, no assurance can be given as to how

          the offering of these products or services by others will affect

          the Company.  For information on the effects of these developments

          on the Company's cellular operations, see "Mobile Communications

          Operations - Regulation and Competition."



               Several bills have been filed in the U. S. Congress that have

          the potential to significantly alter the telecommunications

          industry and its regulatory framework.  Several of these bills are

          designed to promote local telephone competition and obligate LECs

          to provide competitors with universal access to their networks and

          facilities.  Several others are designed to remove barriers of

          entry to several lines of telecommunications businesses, including

          current barriers that prohibit the regional Bell operating

          companies and others from providing interstate and intrastate

          services and that prohibit LECs from providing cable television

          services.  In addition, the Clinton administration and Congress

          have proposed legislative and regulatory initiatives to promote

          wireless technologies as part of the development of a national

          information infrastructure.  Although it is currently impossible

          to assess the ultimate effect of these initiatives, there can be

          no assurances that those bills, or others that may follow, will

          not materially affect the Company's telephone or cellular

          operations.



              The Company anticipates that the traditional operations of

          LECs will increasingly be affected by continued technological

          developments and continued legislative and regulatory initiatives

          affecting the ability of LECs to provide new services and the

          ability of cable companies, interexchange carriers, competitive

          access providers and others to provide competitive LEC services.

          The Company intends to actively monitor these developments, to

          observe the effect of emerging competitive trends in initial test

          markets (which are expected to be large urban 
          
                                      
          
          areas) and to continue to evaluate new business opportunities that 
          
          may arise out of future technological, legislative and regulatory 
          
          developments.



                          MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS



              The Company is the fifteenth largest operator of cellular

          telephone systems in the United States, based on the population of

          the Company's majority-owned and operated MSAs and RSAs.  The

          number of pops owned by a cellular operator does not represent the

          number of users of cellular service and is not necessarily

          indicative of the number of potential subscribers.  Rather, this

          term is frequently used as a basis for comparing the size of

          cellular system operators.  At December 31, 1993, the Company's

          pops exceeded 5.9 million.  Over 1.1 million additional pops were

          acquired in the February 1994 acquisition of Celutel.  Of the

          approximately 7.1 million pops controlled by the Company,

          approximately 5.2 million (73%) are applicable to MSAs and

          approximately 1.9 million (27%)  are RSA pops.



          Cellular Industry



              The cellular telephone industry has been in existence for just

          over ten years in the United States.  Although the industry is

          relatively new, it has grown significantly during this period.

          According to the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association,

          at December 31, 1993 there were estimated to be approximately 16

          million cellular customers across the United States.  Cellular

          service is now available to substantially all areas of the United

          States.



              Cellular mobile telephone technology was developed in response

          to certain limitations of conventional mobile telephone systems.

          Compared to such conventional systems, cellular mobile telephone

          service is capable of high-quality, high-capacity communications

          to and from vehicle-mounted and hand-held radio telephones.  While

          conventional mobile systems limit the number of people who can

          utilize the service simultaneously, cellular systems, if properly

          designed and equipped, are capable of handling thousands of calls

          at any given time and are capable of providing service to tens of

          thousands of subscribers in a market.



              In a cellular telephone system, the licensed service area is

          subdivided into geographic areas or cells.  Each cell has its own

          transmitter and receiver that communicates by radio signal with

          cellular telephones located within the cell.  Each cell is

          connected by a telephone circuit or microwave to a Mobile

          Switching Center ("MSC"), which in turn is connected to the

          worldwide telephone network.






              Communications within a cellular system are controlled by the

          MSC through a transfer process as a cellular telephone user moves

          from one cell to another.  In this process, when the signal

          strength of a call declines to a predetermined level, the MSC

          determines if the signal strength from an adjacent cell is greater

          and, if so, transfers the call to the adjacent cell.  Software

          which facilitates the transfer between adjacent cells of different

          cellular systems using equipment of different manufacturers has

          been implemented by the Company in certain markets.



              Cellular telephone systems have higher subscriber capacity

          than conventional mobile telephone systems because of the

          substantial frequency spectrum allocated to these systems by the

          FCC and because frequencies can be reused throughout the system.

          Frequency reuse is possible because the transmission power of cell

          site equipment and mobile units is relatively low.  Therefore,

          signals on the same channel will not interfere with each other if

          they are transmitted in cells that are sufficiently far apart.

          Reuse multiplies the capacity of channels available to the system

          operator and thereby increases the telephone calling capacity.



              Until recently, substantially all of the radio transmissions

          of cellular systems were conducted on an analog basis.

          Technological developments involving the application of digital

          radio technology may offer certain advantages over analog

          technologies, including expanding the capacity of mobile

          communications systems, improving voice transmission quality,

          permitting the introduction of new services, and otherwise making

          such systems more efficient, more accessible, more private and

          eventually less expensive.  Providers of certain competitive

          services are currently incorporating digital technology into their

          operations, and may be expected to continue to do so in the

          future.  See "-Regulation and Competition-Developments Affecting

          Competition."



              In recent years certain cellular carriers have begun to

          install digital cellular voice transmission facilities in certain

          larger markets.  During 1993 the Company upgraded certain portions

          of its cellular systems in Louisiana and Michigan to be capable of

          providing digital service in the future.  The Company will

          continue to monitor the development and implementation of this

          technology to determine when it will become beneficial for the

          Company to install digital cellular voice transmission facilities.

          See "-Regulation and Competition-Developments Affecting

          Competition."



         
          Strategy



              The Company's business development strategy for its cellular

          telephone operations is to secure operating control of service

          areas that are geographically clustered.  Clustered cellular

          systems aid the Company's marketing efforts and provide various

          operating and service advantages.  After giving effect to those

          operations acquired in February 1994, 51% of the Company's pops in

          markets operated by the Company were in a single, contiguous

          cluster of eight MSAs and six RSAs in Michigan; another 19% were

          in a cluster of four MSAs and seven RSAs in northern and central

          Louisiana, southern Arkansas and eastern Texas.



              Another component of the Company's strategy for cellular

          operations includes capturing revenues from roaming service.

          Roaming service revenues are derived from calls made in one

          cellular service area by subscribers from other service areas.

          Roaming service is made possible by technical standards requiring

          that cellular telephones be functionally compatible with the

          cellular systems in all United States market areas.  The Company

          charges premium rates (compared to rates charged to the Company's

          customers) for roaming service provided to most non-Company

          customers.  The Company's Michigan cellular properties include a

          significant portion of the interstate highway corridor between

          Chicago and Detroit, and its Louisiana properties include an east-

          west interstate highway and a north-south interstate highway which

          intersect in its Louisiana cellular service area.



              In connection with its February 1994 acquisition of Celutel,

          the Company acquired over 84 percent of the Biloxi/Gulfport,

          Mississippi MSA and over 82% the Pascagoula, Mississippi MSA.

          The interstate highway between New Orleans, Louisiana and Mobile,

          Alabama spans these markets.  In connection with this acquisition,

          the Company also acquired over 86% interest in the  Jackson,

          Mississippi MSA; over 77% in the Brownsville, Texas MSA; and over

          67% in the McAllen, Texas MSA.  Jackson is the state capital and

          is located in central Mississippi where two  interstate highways

          intersect. The MSAs in Texas are adjacent to Mexico and consist of

          urban, resort, farm and ranch areas and include two Foreign Trade

          Zones.



          Marketing



              The Company coordinates the marketing strategy for each

          cellular system in which it has a majority interest.  The

          Company's cellular sales force consists of approximately 60 sales

          employees and approximately 200 independent agents.  Each sales

          employee and independent agent solicits cellular customers

          exclusively for the Company.  Company sales employees are

          


          
          compensated by salary and commission and independent sales agents

          are paid commissions.  The Company advertises its services through

          various means, including direct mail, billboard, magazine, radio,

          television and newspaper advertisements.



              The Company is a founding partner and participant in a

          national alliance of 15 leading mobile communications companies

          which is marketing a national brand of cellular service under the

          name MobiLink.  This cellular alliance offers a customer

          satisfaction guarantee and certain quality standards.



          Services, Customers and System Usage



              There are a number of different types of cellular telephones,

          all of which are currently compatible with cellular systems

          nationwide.  The Company sells a full range of vehicle-mounted,

          transportable, and hand-held portable cellular telephones.

          Features offered in the cellular telephones sold by the Company

          include hands-free calling, repeat dialing, horn alert and others.



              The Company's customers are able to choose from a variety of

          packaged pricing plans which are designed to fit different calling

          patterns.  The Company typically charges its customers separately

          for custom-calling features, air time in excess of the packaged

          amount, and toll calls.  Custom-calling features provided by the

          Company include call-forwarding, call-waiting, three-way calling

          and no-answer transfer.  The Company offers a voice message

          service in many of its markets.  This service, which functions

          like a sophisticated answering machine, allows customers to

          receive messages from callers when they are not available to take

          calls.



              Cellular customers come from a wide range of occupations.

          They typically include a large proportion of individuals who work

          outside of their office, such as employees in the construction,

          real estate, wholesale and retail distribution businesses, and

          professionals.  More customers are selecting portable and other

          transportable cellular telephones as these units become more

          compact and fully featured, as well as more attractively priced.

          It is anticipated that average revenue per customer will continue

          to decline as additional non-commercial customers who generate

          fewer local minutes of use are added as subscribers and as roaming

          revenues grow more slowly.



              An added service offered by the Company allows a customer to

          place or receive a call in a cellular service area away from the

          customer's home market area.  The Company has entered into

          "roaming agreements" with operators of other cellular systems

          covering virtually all systems in 
          

          
          
          the United States.  These agreements offer the Company's customers 
          
          the opportunity to roam in these systems.  These reciprocal 
          
          agreements automatically pre-register the customers of the Company's 
          
          system in the other carriers' systems.  Also, a customer of a 
          
          participating non-Company system traveling in a market operated by 
          
          the Company where this arrangement is in effect is able to 
          
          automatically make and receive calls on the Company's system.  The 
          
          charge to a non-Company customer for this service is typically at 
          
          premium rates, and is billed by the Company to the customer's home 
          
          system, which then bills the customer.  Occasionally, the Company 
          
          will enter into reciprocal agreements with other cellular carriers to 
          
          settle roaming usage at a rate different from such premium rates.  In

          some instances, based on competitive factors, the Company may

          charge a lower amount to its customers than the amount actually

          charged by another cellular carrier for roaming.  The Company

          anticipates that competitive factors may place downward pressures

          on charging premium roaming rates.  For additional information on

          roaming revenue, see"-Strategy."



              During 1993, the Company's cellular subsidiaries experienced

          strong subscriber growth in the fourth quarter, primarily due to

          increased holiday season sales.  According to the Cellular

          Telecommunications Industry Association, industry-wide cellular

          sales have been seasonally strong in the fourth quarter for the

          past several years.



              The following table summarizes, among other things,  certain

          information about the Company's customers and market penetration

          (without giving effect to the operations acquired in February

          1994):


          


          
          Notes:
              1. Represents the number of systems in which the Company owned
          at least a 50% interest and which it operated.  The revenues and
          expenses of these cellular markets are included in the Company's
          consolidated revenues and expenses.

              2. Represents the approximate number of revenue-generating
          cellular telephones served by the cellular systems referred to in
          footnote 1.

              3. Computed by dividing the number of customers at the end of
          the period by the total population of markets in service as
          estimated by Donnelly Marketing Information Services for the
          respective years.

              4. Represents the total number of systems that the Company
          operated, including systems in which it does not own a controlling
          interest.

              5. Represents the approximate number of revenue-generating
          cellular telephones served in all systems that the Company
          operated, including systems in which it does not own a controlling
          interest.

          The Company's Cellular Interests



               The table below sets forth certain information with respect to
          the interests in cellular systems that the Company owned or had the
          right to acquire pursuant to definitive agreements as of
          December 31, 1993:




          
          

          (1)  To the best of the Company's knowledge.

          (2)  Markets not operated by the Company.

          (3)  Represents a non-wireline interest.



          Certain Considerations Regarding Cellular Telephone Operations



              The cellular industry has a relatively limited operating

          history and there continues to be uncertainty regarding its

          future.  Among other factors, there is uncertainty regarding (i)

          the continued growth in the number of customers, (ii) the usage

          and pricing of cellular services, particularly as market

          penetration increases and lower-usage customers subscribe for

          service, (iii) the number of customers who will terminate service

          each month, and (iv) the impact of changes in technology,

          regulation and competition, any of which could have a material

          adverse effect on the Company.  See " - Regulation and

          Competition."



              Management believes that a significant portion of the

          aggregate market value of Century's common stock is represented by

          the current market value of its cellular interests.  There can be

          no assurance that the market value of its cellular interests will

          remain at its current level.  Management believes that decreases

          in the market value of such interests could materially decrease

          the trading price of Century common stock.



              The market value of cellular interests is frequently

          determined on the basis of the number of pops controlled by a

          cellular provider.  The population of a particular cellular

          market, however, does not necessarily bear a direct relationship

          to the number of subscribers or the revenues that may be realized

          from the operation of the related cellular system.  The future

          market value of the Company's cellular interests will depend on,

          among other things, the success of its cellular operations.



          Paging



              As part of the Company's strategy of focusing its resources in

          the cellular and telephone businesses, the Company's Florida

          paging operations were sold during 1991.  The Company continues to

          provide paging services to customers in Michigan and Louisiana in

          conjunction with the operation of its majority-owned cellular

          systems.  As of December 31, 1993, the Company had approximately

          9,500 pagers in service.




          Revenue



              The following table reflects the major revenue categories for

          the Company's mobile communications operations as a percentage of

          total mobile communications revenues in 1993, 1992 and 1991.



                                                 1993      1992      1991
                                                 _________________________
          Cellular access fees, toll revenues
              and equipment sales                 80.5%    78.6       72.4
          Cellular roaming                        14.5     14.3       16.4
          Paging services                          5.0      7.1       11.2
                                                 _________________________
                                                 100.0%   100.0      100.0
                                                 =========================

              For further information on these revenue categories, see"-

          Services, Customers and System Usage" and "- Paging."



          Regulation And Competition



              The FCC and various state public utility commissions regulate

          the licensing, construction, operation, interconnection

          arrangements, sale and acquisition of cellular telephone systems

          and certain state public utility commissions also regulate certain

          aspects of pricing by cellular operators.



              Cellular Licensing Process.  The FCC awarded only two licenses

          to provide cellular service in each market.  Each licensee is

          required to provide service to a designated portion of the area or

          population in its licensed area as a condition to maintaining that

          license.  Initially, one license was reserved for companies

          offering local telephone service in the market (the wireline

          carrier) and one license was available for firms unaffiliated with

          the local telephone company (the non-wireline carrier).  Since

          mid-1986, the FCC has permitted telephone companies or their

          affiliates to acquire control of non-wireline licenses in markets

          in which they do not hold interests in the wireline license.



              The completion of acquisitions involving the transfer of

          control of a cellular system requires prior FCC approval and, in

          certain cases, receipt of other federal and state regulatory

          approvals.  Acquisitions of minority interests generally do not

          require FCC approval.  Whenever FCC
          
                                      



          approval is required, any interested party may file a petition
         
          to dismiss or deny the application for approval of the proposed

          transfer.



              Initial operating licenses are granted for ten-year periods

          and are renewable upon application to the FCC for periods of ten

          years.  Licenses may be revoked and license renewal applications

          denied for cause.  There may be competition for licenses upon the

          expiration of the initial ten-year terms and there is no assurance

          that any license will be renewed, although the FCC has issued a

          decision that grants a renewal expectancy during the license

          renewal period to incumbent licensees that substantially comply

          with the terms and conditions of their cellular authorizations and

          the FCC's regulations.  The licenses for the MSA markets operated

          by the Company were initially granted between 1984 and 1987, and

          licenses for operated RSAs were initially granted between 1989 and

          1991.



              Five years after initial operating licenses are granted,

          unserved areas within markets previously granted to licensees may

          be applied for by both wireline and non-wireline entities and by

          third parties.  The FCC has rules that govern the procedures for

          filing and granting such applications and has established

          requirements for constructing and operating systems in such areas.

          The Company has not lost, and does not expect to lose, any

          significant market areas as a result of not providing service to

          such areas.  In addition to regulation by the FCC, cellular

          systems are subject to certain Federal Aviation Administration

          tower height regulations respecting the siting and construction of

          cellular transmitter towers and antennas.



              Competition between cellular providers in each market is

          conducted principally on the basis of services and enhancements

          offered, the technical quality and coverage of the system, quality

          and responsiveness of customer service, and price.  Competition

          may be intense.  For a listing of the Company's competitors in

          cellular markets operated by the Company, see "- The Company's

          Cellular Interests."  Under applicable law, the Company is

          required to permit the reselling of its services.  In certain

          larger markets and in certain market segments, competition from

          resellers may be significant.  There is also competition for

          agents.  Some of the Company's competitors have greater assets and

          resources than the Company.



              Developments Affecting Mobile Communications Competition.

          Continued and rapid technological advances in the communications

          field, coupled with legislative and regulatory uncertainty, make

          it impossible to (i) predict the extent of future competition to

          cellular systems,  (ii) determine which emerging technologies pose

          the most viable alternatives to the Company's cellular operations,

          or (iii) systematically list each development that may ultimately

          impact the 
          
          


          
          Company's cellular operations.  No assurance can be

          given that current or future technological advances, or

          legislative or regulatory changes, will not impact the Company's

          cellular operations.



              Several recent FCC initiatives have resulted in the allocation

          of additional radio spectrum or the issuance of experimental

          licenses for emerging mobile communications technologies that will

          or may be competitive with the Company's cellular and telephone

          operations, including personal communication services ("PCS").

          Due to PCS' next generation, high-capacity digital technology

          (which has been tested under experimental licenses since late

          1989), PCS may be able to offer wireless data, image and other

          advanced wireless services.  In late 1993, the FCC proposed rules

          for auctioning up to seven PCS licenses per market, two of which

          would entitle the licensees to use 30 megahertz ("MHz") of

          frequency band each, one of which would entitle the licensee to

          use 20 MHz, and four of which would entitle the licensees to use

          10 MHz each.  These rules would divide the United States into 540

          licensed markets, none of which would be co-terminus with current

          cellular markets.  Under these rules, the Company will be

          permitted to freely pursue PCS licenses outside its cellular

          markets, but will be limited to acquiring only one 10 MHz block in

          licensed areas where it controls more than a 20% interest in a

          cellular licensee and serves more than 10% of the population

          within the PCS licensed area.  Auctioning of certain PCS licenses

          is anticipated to commence in 1994.  Due to several pending

          petitions to reconsider these rules, it is possible that the final

          rules will be modified.



              In addition to PCS, users and potential users of cellular

          systems may find their communication needs satisfied by other

          current and developing technologies, several of which may enjoy

          potential operational and service advantages through their use of

          digital technology.  The FCC has recently authorized the licensees

          of certain specialized mobile radio service ("SMR") systems (which

          currently are generally used by taxicabs and tow truck operators)

          to configure their systems so as to operate in a manner similar to

          cellular systems.  The Company believes that SMR systems are

          operating in a majority of its cellular markets.  Certain well-

          established SMR providers have announced their intention to create

          a nationwide digital mobile communications system to compete with

          cellular systems, and in connection therewith have sought and

          obtained financial and other assistance from various other well-

          established telecommunication companies.  Other similar

          communication services which have the technical capability to

          handle mobile telephone calls may provide competition in certain

          markets, although these services currently lack the subscriber

          capacity of cellular systems.  One-way paging or beeper services

          that feature voice message and data display as well as tones may

          be adequate for potential subscribers who do not need to transmit

          back to the caller.  Other two-way mobile services may also be

          competitive with the Company's services.  For example, the second





          generation of cordless telephone technology ("CT-2") will permit

          the application of this technology to a public environment.



              The FCC has taken various actions to authorize mobile

          satellite systems in which transmissions from mobile units to

          satellites would augment or replace transmissions to land-based

          stations.  It is anticipated that the first operational satellite-

          based mobile communications system will serve primarily rural

          customers in North America.  However, other satellite-based

          systems are being studied and designed, including a worldwide-

          system backed by an international consortium, and no assurance can

          be given that such systems will not ultimately be successful in

          augmenting or replacing land-based cellular systems.



              As described further under "Telephone Operations - Regulation

          and Competition," in connection with the well-publicized

          convergence of telecommunications, cable, video, computer and

          other technologies, several large companies have recently

          announced plans to offer products that would significantly enhance

          current communications and data transmissions services and, in

          some instances, introduce new services.  Although much of the

          resulting competition is expected to center on wireline services,

          it is anticipated that these developments may also increase

          competition in the mobile communications industry.  Several

          wireless data and computer companies are currently developing and,

          in some instances, marketing small hand-held products that may

          ultimately provide an additional source of competition for

          cellular systems, and it is anticipated that this trend will

          continue.



              As also described further under "Telephone Operations -

          Regulation and Competition," several bills have been filed in the

          U.S. Congress that have the potential to significantly alter the

          telecommunications industry, including various bills that focus on

          the mobile communications industry.



              It is uncertain how PCS, SMR, CT-2, mobile satellites and

          other emerging technologies will ultimately affect the Company.

          However, PCS, SMR, CT-2 and mobile satellites are not anticipated

          to be significant sources of competition in the Company's markets

          in the near term.  Moreover, management believes that equipping

          its current cellular networks with digital enhancements and

          applying new microcellular technologies may permit its cellular

          systems to provide services comparable with the emerging

          technologies described above, although no assurances can be given

          that this will happen or that future technological advances or

          legislative or regulatory changes will not create additional

          sources of competition.



         
              Paging.  There is vigorous competition for paging customers in

          most of the areas served by the Company.  Some of the Company's

          competitors have greater assets and resources than the Company.

          The paging companies compete on the basis of price, the

          reliability and strength of their signals, the size of the area

          served and the customer service they provide.  In recent months,

          certain other companies have reduced prices on nationwide paging

          services, a development which is not expected to have a

          substantial impact on the Company's consolidated operations.



              The FCC has authorized the use of cellular frequencies to

          provide paging service, creating the potential for new

          competitors.  It is anticipated that all or substantially all of

          the developments described in the immediately preceding section

          will affect the Company's paging operations.  It is too early to

          predict the extent to which these developments may affect the

          Company.



                                        OTHER



              The Company has certain obligations based on federal, state

          and local laws relating to the protection of the environment.

          Costs of compliance through 1993 have not been material and the

          Company currently has no reason to believe that such costs will

          become material.



              For additional information concerning the business and

          properties of the Company, see notes 2, 6, 7 and 12 of Notes to

          Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 elsewhere

          herein.



          Item 2.   Properties.



              The Company's properties consist principally of (i) telephone

          lines, central office equipment, telephone instruments and related

          equipment, and land and building related to telephone operations

          and (ii) switching and cell site equipment related to cellular

          telephone operations.  As of December 31, 1993, the Company's

          gross property, plant and equipment of approximately $1.2 billion

          consisted of the following:





          Telephone:
              General support                                  7.3%
              Central office equipment                        24.0
              Information origination/termination equipment    3.1
              Cable and wire                                  43.8
              Construction in progress                         4.6
              Other                                             .9
                                                             _____ 
                                                              83.7
          Mobile Communications                                9.7
          Other                                                6.6
                                                             _____
                                                             100.0%
                                                             =====

              "General support" consists primarily of land, buildings,

          tools, furnishings, fixtures, motor vehicles and work equipment.

          "Central office equipment" consists primarily of switching

          equipment, circuit equipment, and related facilities.

          "Information origination/termination equipment" consists primarily

          of premise equipment (private branch exchanges and telephones) for

          official company use.  "Cable and wire" facilities consist

          primarily of buried cable and aerial cable, poles, wire, conduit

          and drops.  "Construction in progress" includes property of the

          foregoing categories that has not been placed in service because

          it is still under construction.  The properties of the Company's

          telephone subsidiaries are subject to mortgages securing the

          funded debt of such companies.  The Company owns substantially all

          of the central office buildings, local administrative buildings,

          warehouses, and storage facilities used in its telephone

          operations.  The Company leases most of the offices used in its

          cellular operations; certain of its transmitter sites are leased

          while others are owned by the Company.  For further information on

          the location and type of the Company's properties, see the

          descriptions of the Company's telephone and mobile communications

          operations in Item 1.



          Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.



              From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation

          incidental to its business, including administrative hearings of

          state public utility commissions relating primarily to rate

          making, tort actions relating to employee claims and occasional

          grievance hearings before labor regulatory agencies.  Currently,

          there are no material legal proceedings.



          Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security  Holders.



              Not applicable.
  



          Executive Officers of the Registrant



              Information concerning Executive Officers, set forth at Item

          10 in Part III hereof, is incorporated in Part I of this Report by

          reference.





                                       PART II





          Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related

                    Stockholder Matters.



              Century's common stock is listed on the New York Stock

          Exchange and is traded under the symbol CTL.  The following table

          sets forth the high and low sale prices, along with the quarterly

          dividends, for each of the quarters indicated:


                                          Sale prices
                                      __________________        Dividend per
                                      High           Low        common share
                                      ____           ___        ____________
          1992:
              First quarter        $  24-7/8         18-5/8          .0733
              Second quarter       $  25-3/8         18-3/8          .0733
              Third quarter        $  25             18-5/8          .0733
              Fourth quarter       $  28-7/8         22-7/8          .0733

          1993:
              First quarter        $  33-3/8         26              .0775
              Second quarter       $  33-1/8         28              .0775
              Third quarter        $  31-5/8         27-1/8          .0775
              Fourth quarter       $  30-3/8         23-1/4          .0775




              Common stock dividends during 1992 and 1993 were paid each

          quarter.  As of February 28, 1994, there were approximately 5,900

          stockholders of record of Century's common stock.



          Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.



              The following table presents certain selected consolidated

          financial data as of and for each of the years ended in the five-

          year period ended December 31, 1993.




          Selected Income Statement Data





          Selected Balance Sheet Data


              The following table presents certain selected consolidated

          operating data as of the end of each of the years in the five-year

          period ended December 31, 1993.




               See Items 1 and 2 in Part I and notes 4, 8 and 12 of Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8
          elsewhere herein for additional information.


          Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial

                    Condition and Results of Operations.



                                RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



               The 1993 net income of Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc.

          and subsidiaries (the "Company") increased to $69,004,000 from

          $44,305,000 during 1992 and $37,419,000 during 1991.  Income

          before the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles

          during 1992 was $59,973,000.



               Fully diluted earnings per share for 1993 increased to $1.32

          from $.91 during 1992 and $.79 during 1991.  Fully diluted

          earnings per share in 1992 before the cumulative effect of

          changes in accounting principles was $1.22.

                                      




               As of January 1, 1992, the Company adopted Statement of

          Financial Accounting Standards No. 106 ("SFAS 106"), "Employers'

          Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions," and

          Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 ("SFAS 109"),

          "Accounting for Income Taxes."  The cumulative effect of the

          changes in accounting principles related to SFAS 106 and SFAS 109

          reduced 1992 net income by $14,755,000 ($.30 per share) and

          $913,000 ($.01 per share), respectively.



               The Company is a regional diversified telecommunications

          company that is primarily engaged in providing traditional

          telephone services and cellular mobile telephone services.  The

          Company's 1993 operating income was $124,808,000, an increase of

          $15,180,000 (13.8%) over 1992 operating income of $109,628,000.

          During 1993 the operating income of the telephone operations and

          the mobile communications operations increased $11,230,000

          (10.8%) and $3,950,000 (66.3%), respectively, compared to the

          1992 results of operations.  The Company's net operating income

          during 1991 was $75,087,000.



          Year ended December 31,              1993       1992      1991
          ==================================================================
                                                (expressed in thousands,
                                                except per share amounts)
          Operating income (loss)
             Telephone                      $ 114,902   103,672    80,039
             Mobile Communications              9,906     5,956   (4,952)
          __________________________________________________________________
                                              124,808   109,628    75,087
          Interest expense                    (30,149)  (27,166)  (22,504)
          Earnings from unconsolidated
            cellular partnerships               6,626     1,692       697
          Gain on sales of assets               1,661     3,985         -
          Other income, net                     3,310     4,433     4,209
          Income tax expense                  (37,252)  (32,599)  (20,070)
          __________________________________________________________________
          Income before cumulative effect
            of changes in accounting 
            principles                         69,004    59,973    37,419
          Cumulative effect of changes in
             accounting principles                -     (15,668)      -
          __________________________________________________________________
          Net income                        $  69,004    44,305    37,419
          ==================================================================
          Fully diluted earnings per share:
             Income before cumulative
              effect of changes in 
              accounting principles         $    1.32      1.22       .79
             Cumulative effect of changes
              in accounting principles            -        (.31)      -
          __________________________________________________________________
          Fully diluted earnings per share  $    1.32       .91       .79
          ==================================================================


               The operating income of the telephone segment includes the

          operations, subsequent to each respective acquisition, of Century

          Telephone of San Marcos, Inc. ("San Marcos"), acquired 
          



          
          in April 1993; Century Telephone of Ohio, Inc. ("Ohio"), acquired in 
          
          April 1992; and two other local exchange telephone companies

          collectively with Ohio the "1992 Acquisitions") acquired during

          the first quarter of 1992.  See note 12 for additional

          information applicable to these acquisitions.



               The mobile communications operating income (loss) reflects

          the operations of the cellular partnerships in which the Company

          has a majority interest.  The minority interest partners' share

          of the income or loss of such partnerships is reflected in other

          income, net.  The Company's share of income or loss from the

          cellular partnerships in which it has less than a majority

          interest is reflected in earnings from unconsolidated cellular

          partnerships.  The operating income of the mobile communications

          segment during 1993 includes the operations of the Alexandria,

          Louisiana Metropolitan Statistical Area ("MSA") cellular system

          ("Alexandria"), which was acquired in December 1992.



               According to published sources, the Company has the second

          highest ratio of cellular subscribers to telephone access lines

          among the 20 largest telephone companies in the United States.

          Accordingly, the Company anticipates that its mobile

          communications operations will continue to increasingly influence

          the Company's overall operations as the cellular industry

          matures.  The following chart illustrates this trend:



          Year ended December 31,                    1993    1992   1991
          ==================================================================

          Telephone Operations:
               Revenues (% of total revenues)        80.4%   82.7   83.5
               Operating income (% of total
                 operating income)                   92.1%   94.6  106.6

          Mobile Communications Operations:
               Revenues (% of total revenues)        19.6%   17.3   16.5
               Operating income (% of total
                 operating income)                    7.9%    5.4   (6.6)
          ==================================================================




          TELEPHONE OPERATIONS

                                                1993      1992      1991
          ==================================================================
                                                (expressed in thousands)
          Revenues
               Local service               $   88,704    78,108    58,653
               Network access and
                  long distance               217,055   182,711   145,279
               Other                           42,726    36,691    31,864
          __________________________________________________________________
                                              348,485   297,510   235,796
          __________________________________________________________________
          Expenses
               Plant operations                80,578    66,878    52,546
               Customer operations             32,225    26,242    19,502
               Corporate and other             55,605    46,791    39,227
               Depreciation and
                  amortization                 65,175    53,927    44,482
          __________________________________________________________________
                                              233,583   193,838   155,757
          __________________________________________________________________
          Operating income                 $  114,902   103,672    80,039
          ==================================================================


               Telephone revenues increased $50,975,000 (17.1%) in 1993 and

          $61,714,000 (26.2%) in 1992.  Revenues applicable to San Marcos

          and Ohio accounted for $15,681,000 and $14,833,000, respectively,

          of the 1993 increase and revenues applicable to the 1992

          Acquisitions accounted for $34,891,000 of the 1992 increase.

          Amounts recorded as a result of revisions of prior years' revenue

          settlements were $8,380,000 (exclusive of Ohio), $8,181,000 and

          $8,206,000 in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.



          Local Revenues



               Local service revenues are derived from the provision of

          local exchange telephone services in the Company's franchised

          service areas.  During 1993 local service revenues increased

          $2,219,000 and $5,252,000 due to San Marcos and Ohio,

          respectively.  During 1992 such revenues increased $15,670,000

          due to the 1992 Acquisitions.  Internal access line growth during

          1993, 1992 and 1991 was 3.6%, 3.8% and 3.2%, respectively.



          Network Access and Long Distance Revenues



               Network access and long distance revenues increased

          $34,344,000 (18.8%) in 1993 and $37,432,000 (25.8%) in 1992 due

          to the following factors:




                                                    1993            1992
          ==================================================================
                                                  (expressed in thousands)

          San Marcos acquisition                 $  11,279              -

          1992 Acquisitions                          8,458         13,687

          Partial recovery of increased operating
               expenses through revenue pools in
               which the Company participates with
               other telephone companies and
               return on rate base                   7,326          9,931

          Increased recovery as a result of
               additional investment and phase-in
               of the Federal Communications
               Commission ("FCC") mandated
               Universal Service Fund                6,161          7,040

          Increased minutes of use                   3,444          3,607

          Other                                     (2,324)         3,167
          __________________________________________________________________
                                                 $  34,344         37,432
          ==================================================================


               Network access and long distance revenues primarily relate

          to services provided to interexchange carriers (long distance

          carriers) in connection with the completion of long distance

          telephone calls.  Substantially all of the Company's interstate

          network access revenues are received through pooling arrangements

          administered by the National Exchange Carrier Association

          ("NECA") based on cost separations studies and average schedule

          settlement agreements.  The NECA receives access charges billed

          by the Company and other participating local exchange carriers to

          interstate long distance carriers for their use of the local

          exchange network to complete long distance calls.  These charges

          to the long distance carriers are based on tariffed access rates

          filed with the FCC by the NECA on behalf of the Company and other

          participating local exchange telephone companies.  Long distance

          and intrastate network access revenues are based on access rates,

          cost separations studies or special settlement arrangements with

          intrastate long distance carriers.



               In December 1993 the eight-year phase-in of the FCC

          Universal Service Fund ("USF") was completed.  Revenues from the

          USF increased approximately $6,161,000 during 1993, of which

          approximately $3,200,000 was the effect of the phase-in.

          Revenues were unfavorably impacted in the amount of $1,000,000

          during 1993 by reductions (which will aggregate 
          




          approximately $3,500,000 annually upon final phase-in 1994) in 

          the level of certain settlements received from South Central 
          
          Bell by the Company's Louisiana subsidiaries.



          Other Revenues



               Other revenues include revenues related to nonregulated

          telecommunications equipment and services, billing and collection

          services for interexchange long distance carriers, network

          facilities leases and directories.  The increases in other

          revenues during 1993 and 1992 were primarily due to the 1992

          Acquisitions and, during 1993, to San Marcos.



          Expenses



               Plant operations expenses during 1993 and 1992 increased

          $13,700,000 (20.5%) and $14,332,000 (27.3%), respectively.

          Approximately $3,650,000 and $3,455,000 of the 1993 increase were

          due to San Marcos and Ohio, respectively.  Increases in salaries,

          wages and benefits during 1993 accounted for approximately

          $2,192,000. The remainder of the 1993 increase was due to

          increases in other general operating expenses.  Approximately

          $10,269,000 and $1,105,000 of the 1992 increase were due to the

          1992 Acquisitions and the SFAS 106 postretirement benefit costs,

          respectively.  The remainder of the 1992 increase was due to

          increases in salaries and wages and other general operating

          expenses.



               Customer operations, corporate expenses and other expenses

          increased $14,797,000 (20.3%) in 1993 and $14,304,000 (24.4%) in

          1992.  The operations of San Marcos and Ohio contributed

          $6,467,000 and $4,532,000, respectively, to the 1993 increase.

          The 1992 Acquisitions and the SFAS 106 postretirement benefit

          costs accounted for approximately $11,186,000 and $806,000,

          respectively, of the 1992 increase.  The remainder of the 1993

          and 1992 increases included increased operating costs, such as

          salaries and wages, employee benefits, insurance and operating

          taxes.



               Depreciation and amortization increased $11,248,000 (20.9%)

          and $9,445,000 (21.2%) in 1993 and 1992, respectively.

          Approximately $5,447,000 of the 1993 increase was due to San

          Marcos and Ohio.  The 1992 Acquisitions accounted for $6,939,000

          of the 1992 increase.  Depreciation expense included one-time

          depreciation charges in certain jurisdictions which aggregated

          $3,336,000 in 1993 (exclusive of San Marcos), $2,938,000 in 1992

          (exclusive of the 1992 Acquisitions) and $1,784,000 in 1991.  In

          addition, the Company obtained higher depreciation rates for

          certain subsidiaries during the last three years.  The first-year

          effects of the 




           higher rates were approximately $1,650,000 in 1993 (exclusive

           of San Marcos), $700,000 in 1992 (exclusive of the 1992

           Acquisitions) and $3,100,000 in 1991.  The remaining

          increases in depreciation and amortization are due to higher

          levels of plant in service.  The composite depreciation rate for

          telephone properties, including the one-time additional

          depreciation, was 7.1%, 6.6% and 6.7% for 1993, 1992 and 1991,

          respectively.



               See Other Matters for additional information.


          MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS

                                                1993      1992      1991

          ==================================================================
                                                (expressed in thousands)
          Revenues
             Cellular
                 Service                     $ 76,583    54,489    38,923
                 Equipment                      3,930     3,194     2,592
             Paging                             4,199     4,409     5,216
          __________________________________________________________________
                                               84,712    62,092    46,731
          __________________________________________________________________

          Expenses
             General, administrative
                 and customer service          23,872    19,685    18,144
             Sales and marketing               19,894    13,167    13,403
             Cost of sales and other
                 operating expenses            19,681    14,313    12,378
             Depreciation and amortization     11,359     8,971     7,758
          __________________________________________________________________
                                               74,806    56,136    51,683
          __________________________________________________________________
          Operating income (loss)            $  9,906     5,956   (4,952)
          ==================================================================


          Revenues



               Revenues from cellular operations during 1993 increased to

          $80,513,000 from $57,683,000 in 1992 and $41,515,000 in 1991.

          Service revenues include monthly service fees for providing

          access and airtime to customers, service fees for providing

          airtime to users roaming through the Company's service areas and

          toll revenue.



               Service revenues increased $22,094,000 (40.5%) in 1993 and

          $15,566,000 (40.0%) in 1992.  Increases in access and usage

          revenues, exclusive of Alexandria, accounted for $14,585,000 of

          the 1993 increase in service revenues, compared to $12,871,000

          during 1992.  The increases in access and usage revenues in both

          years were primarily attributable to increases in the number of

          cellular customers.  Roaming and toll revenues increased

          $4,120,000 in 1993, exclusive of Alexandria, after increasing

          $2,281,000 during 1992.  The remainder of the 1993 increase in

          cellular revenues was due substantially to the Alexandria

          acquisition.






               Cellular units in service increased to 116,484 as of

          December 31, 1993 from 73,084 as of December 31, 1992 (which

          included the December 1992 acquisition of Alexandria) and 51,083

          at December 31, 1991.



               The average monthly service revenue per subscriber declined

          to $71 in 1993 from $75 in 1992 and 1991, primarily due to the

          trend that a higher percentage of new subscribers tend to be

          lower usage customers.  The decline in average monthly service

          revenue per subscriber was also affected by the growth rate of

          cellular units in service exceeding the growth rate of roaming

          revenues.  The average monthly service revenue per subscriber may

          further decline as market penetration increases and additional

          lower usage customers are activated.  The Company will continue

          to attempt to stimulate cellular usage by promoting the

          availability of certain enhanced services and by increasing

          coverage areas through the construction of additional cell sites.



          Expenses



               General, administrative and customer service expenses

          increased $4,187,000 (21.3%) and $1,541,000 (8.5%) during 1993

          and 1992, respectively.  The increases were primarily due to

          higher billing and other costs due to the increased number of

          customers and, in 1993, to Alexandria.



               During 1993 mobile communications sales and marketing

          expenses increased $6,727,000 (51.1%) primarily due to an

          increase in commissions paid to agents for selling cellular

          services to the large volume of new customers.  The remaining

          increase during 1993 was primarily due to an increase in

          advertising costs and to Alexandria.  The Company implemented a

          new cellular sales commission structure during 1992 which,

          notwithstanding an increase in agent sales, contributed to the

          1.8% decrease in mobile communications sales and marketing

          expenses in 1992.



               The increases in cost of sales and other operating expenses

          in 1993 and 1992 were primarily due to growth in the business, to

          the development and operation of the Company's Rural Service Area

          ("RSA") cellular systems and, in 1993, to Alexandria.  Sixty-two

          cell sites were placed in service during 1993 (compared to 21

          during 1992 and 24 during 1991) in partnerships in which the

          Company has a majority interest.  In addition, as a result of the

          December 1992 acquisition of Alexandria, the Company acquired

          five additional cell sites.  The Company operated 158 cell sites

          at December 31, 1993 in partnerships in which it has a majority

          interest.





               Depreciation and amortization increased $2,388,000 (26.6%)

          in 1993 and $1,213,000 (15.6%) in 1992 primarily due to higher

          levels of cellular plant in service.



               See Other Matters for additional information.



          INTEREST EXPENSE



               Interest expense increased $2,983,000 (11.0%) during 1993

          and $4,662,000 (20.7%) during 1992.  Interest expense incurred

          during 1993 due to an increase in average debt outstanding was

          substantially offset by the effect of lower average interest

          rates.  Interest expense during 1992 increased primarily due to

          the issuance of $115,000,000 of 6% convertible debentures during

          the first quarter of 1992.  The debenture interest of

          approximately $6,200,000 during 1992 was partially offset by

          reduced interest expense due to lower average interest rates.



          EARNINGS FROM UNCONSOLIDATED CELLULAR PARTNERSHIPS



               Earnings from unconsolidated cellular partnerships increased

          $4,934,000 in 1993 and $995,000 in 1992.  The Company's share of

          income from the partnership interests acquired in the San Marcos

          acquisition contributed substantially to the 1993 increase.



          SALES OF ASSETS



               During 1993 the Company sold a minority investment in a

          telephone company which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $1,661,000

          ($1,080,000 after-tax).



               During 1992 the Company consummated the sales of two

          telephone subsidiaries which served approximately 2,000 access

          lines; its minority interests in an MSA cellular partnership and

          an RSA cellular partnership; and its 100% interest in an RSA

          cellular market.  The sales prices totaled $12,212,000 and the

          aggregate pre-tax gain was $3,985,000 ($2,630,000 after-tax).



          OTHER INCOME, NET



               Other income, net decreased $1,123,000 (25.3%) primarily

          because interest income earned during 1993 was less than interest

          income during 1992.





          INCOME TAX EXPENSE



               The effective income tax rate was 35.1%, 35.2% and 34.9% in

          1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  The additional federal income

          taxes incurred during 1993 as a result of the 1% increase in the

          statutory federal income tax rate in accordance with the

          provisions of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (the

          "Act") was more than offset by the tax benefit applicable to the

          deductibility of certain intangible assets also provided by the

          Act.



          CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES



               The Company adopted SFAS 106 as of January 1, 1992.  SFAS

          106 requires that the expected cost of providing postretirement

          health care and life insurance benefits be accrued during the

          years an employee renders service to the Company.  During 1991

          the Company had recognized $1,475,000 of postretirement benefits

          on the pay-as-you-go basis.  The unrecognized obligation existing

          at the date of initial application of SFAS 106 (the "Transition

          Obligation") was $27,390,000.  In accordance with the provisions

          of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 ("SFAS

          71"), "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of

          Regulation," the Company deferred approximately $3,450,000 of the

          Transition Obligation; such costs are being expensed in

          connection with recovery through the rate-making process.  The

          remaining $23,940,000, net of tax benefits which aggregated

          $9,185,000, was reported as the cumulative effect of a change in

          accounting principle and reduced 1992 fully diluted earnings per

          share by $.30.  The accrual of postretirement benefits during

          1992, net of the related toll revenue and 1992 pay-as-you-go

          costs, decreased income before income taxes and cumulative effect

          of changes in accounting principles for 1992 by $2,023,000.



               The Company also adopted SFAS 109 as of January 1, 1992,

          under which the accounting for income taxes is based on an asset

          and liability approach rather than the deferred method.  The

          cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle related

          to SFAS 109 decreased net income for 1992 by $913,000 ($.01 per

          fully diluted share).  In accordance with the provisions of SFAS

          71, the Company established a regulatory liability of

          approximately $47,000,000 relative to the excess deferred income

          taxes and the regulatory impact thereof.



          INFLATION



               The effects of increased costs are mitigated by the ability

          to recover costs applicable to the Company's regulated telephone

          operations through the rate-making process.  As operating




          expenses increase in the nonregulated areas, the Company, to the

          extent permitted by competition, recovers the costs by increasing

          prices for its services and equipment.



               While the regulatory process does not consider replacement

          cost of physical plant, the Company has historically been able to

          earn a return on any increased cost of its net investment when

          facilities are replaced.  Possible future regulatory changes may

          alter the Company's ability to recover increased costs in its

          regulated operations.



                           LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



               The Company relies on cash provided by operations to provide

          a substantial portion of its cash needs.  The Company's telephone

          operations have historically provided a stable source of cash

          flow which has helped the Company continue its program of capital

          improvements.  Cash provided by mobile communications operations

          has increased each year since that segment became cash-flow

          positive in 1991.



               Net cash provided by operating activities was $166,754,000,

          $146,324,000 and $92,884,000 in 1993, 1992 and 1991,

          respectively.  For additional information relative to the

          telephone operations and mobile communications operations of the

          Company, see Results of Operations.



               Although payments for property, plant and equipment during

          1993 increased by $64,172,000, net cash used in investing

          activities during 1993 was approximately the same as 1992

          primarily because the amount of cash used in acquisitions during

          1993 was approximately $80,083,000 less than in the previous

          year.  Net cash used in investing activities increased

          $147,910,000 in 1992, primarily due to the 1992 Acquisitions and

          to an increase of $44,335,000 in payments for property, plant and

          equipment.



               Cash provided by financing activities in 1993 was

          $23,247,000 less than in 1992 primarily because net borrowings,

          including long-term debt and notes payable, were $20,582,000 less

          than in 1992.  The $36,785,000 increase in notes payable

          outstanding at December 31, 1993 compared to December 31, 1992

          reflects the Company's utilization of borrowings under its short-

          term credit facilities to take advantage of declining short-term

          interest rates during 1993.  The Company intends to eventually

          refinance such short-term borrowings with long-term debt.

          Proceeds from the issuance of debt during 1992 ($100,655,000 more

          than during 1991) included 
          

          
          $115,000,000 from the issuance of 6% convertible debentures in 
          
          February 1992 to provide the major portion of the purchase price 
          
          of Ohio.



               In October 1993 the Company executed a merger agreement with

          Celutel, Inc., under which Century acquired Celutel for

          approximately $102,000,000 during the first quarter of 1994.

          Approximately $51,400,000 of the purchase price was paid in cash,

          with the remainder being paid through the issuance of 1,900,000

          shares of Century common stock.  In connection with the

          acquisition, Century refinanced approximately $41,700,000 of

          Celutel's debt.  Century funded the cash portion of the merger

          consideration and the debt prepayment from proceeds received from

          a committed bridge term loan.  It is currently anticipated that

          the bridge term loan will be repaid prior to September 30, 1994

          with proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, the terms and

          conditions of which have not yet been determined.  Based on a

          review of its financing alternatives, Century does not anticipate

          any problems in obtaining such financing.



               Budgeted capital expenditures for 1994 total $142,000,000

          for telephone operations, $50,000,000 for mobile communications

          operations (of which $10,000,000 will be funded by minority

          interest owners in cellular partnerships operated by the Company)

          and $4,000,000 for other operations.



               As of December 31, 1993, Century's telephone subsidiaries

          had available for use $84,000,000 of commitments for long-term

          financing from the Rural Electrification Administration ("REA")

          and the Company had $23,600,000 of undrawn committed bank lines

          of credit.  In addition, approximately $7,000,000 of uncommitted

          credit facilities were available to the Company at December 31,

          1993.  Applications for additional long-term financing for

          Century's telephone subsidiaries have been filed with the REA and

          are in various stages of processing.  The Company has experienced

          no significant problems in obtaining funds for capital

          expenditures or other purposes.



               Stockholders' equity as a percentage of total capitalization

          was 48.5% and 47.0% at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.



                              ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT



               The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued

          Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 112 ("SFAS 112"),

          "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits," in November

          1992.  SFAS 112 requires the adoption of accrual accounting for



           
          
          workers compensation, disability and other benefits provided

          after employment but before retirement by requiring accrual of

          the expected cost when it is probable that a benefit obligation

          has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.

          The Company will be required to adopt SFAS 112 in the first

          quarter of 1994.  Liabilities for postemployment benefits

          included in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31,

          1993 are not materially different than those required by SFAS

          112.



                                    OTHER MATTERS



               In December 1993 the eight-year phase-in of the USF was

          completed.  Revenues from the USF increased approximately

          $6,161,000 during 1993, of which approximately $3,200,000

          reflected the effect of the phase-in.  The Company anticipates

          that, subsequent to 1993, revenues from the USF will continue to

          increase in the near term, but at a lesser percentage rate than

          that associated with recent prior periods.  In addition, the

          Public Service Commission of Wisconsin ("PSCW") has ordered that

          the existing Wisconsin state support fund, from which certain of

          the Company's subsidiaries received approximately $3,575,000

          during 1993 and $3,755,000 during 1992, will be phased-out over

          one and one-half years beginning July 1, 1993.  Certain of the

          Company's subsidiaries affected by the order have filed requests

          with the PSCW to receive increased rates and/or compensation

          which could potentially offset some or all of the amounts that

          those subsidiaries have been receiving from the existing support

          fund.  All such additional revenue must be justified based on

          each subsidiary's financial need as demonstrated by an expedited

          rate case.  The Wisconsin State Telephone Association has, among

          other things, appealed the PSCW's planned phase-out of the

          support fund.  Also, the Louisiana Public Service Commission

          ("LPSC") is conducting an informal review of the earnings of all

          independent local exchange telephone companies in Louisiana.  It

          is possible that reviews by state regulatory authorities, such as

          the informal review being conducted by the LPSC, may result in

          refunds and/or future reductions in revenues.



               Revenues are being impacted by reductions (which will

          aggregate approximately $3,500,000 annually upon completion in

          the second quarter of 1994 of a one-year phase-in period) in the

          level of certain settlements received from South Central Bell by

          the Company's Louisiana subsidiaries.  For information on the

          effect of these reductions on the Company's 1993 operations, see

          Results of Operations.



               The telecommunications industry is currently undergoing

          various regulatory, competitive and technological changes,

          including the following.  First, the FCC and a limited number of

          state 
          

          

          public utility commissions have begun to reduce the

          regulatory oversight of the earnings and return rates of local

          exchange carriers ("LEC's").  Coincident with this movement

          toward reduced regulation is the introduction and encouragement

          of local exchange competition by the FCC and various state public

          utility commissions, along with the emergence of certain

          companies providing competitive access and other services that

          compete with LEC's services and the announcement by certain well-

          established interexchange carriers of their desire to enter the

          LEC business.  Second, several recent FCC initiatives have

          resulted in the allocation of additional frequency spectrum or

          the issuance of experimental licenses for mobile communications

          technologies that will or may be competitive with cellular,

          including personal communications services (for which the FCC

          intends to begin auctioning operating licenses in 1994) and

          mobile satellite services.  The FCC has also authorized certain

          specialized mobile radio service licensees to configure their

          systems so as to operate in a manner similar to cellular systems,

          and certain of these licensees recently announced their intention

          to create a nationwide mobile communications system to compete

          with cellular systems.  Third, in connection with the well-

          publicized convergence of telecommunications, cable, video,

          computer and other technologies, several large companies have

          recently announced plans to offer products that would

          significantly enhance current communications and data

          transmission services and, in some instances, introduce new two-

          way video, entertainment, data, consumer and other multimedia

          services.  Local exchange competition and competitive access are

          expected to initially affect large urban areas to a greater

          extent than rural, suburban and small urban areas such as those

          in which the Company's telephone operations are located.  The

          same expectation holds true for emerging competitive wireless

          technologies and the development of new multimedia services.

          Therefore, the Company does not believe these developments are

          likely to materially affect it in the near term.  The Company

          further believes that it may benefit from having the opportunity

          to observe the effects of these developments in large urban

          markets in the near term, thereby better preparing it for

          competition.  The Company will continue to monitor the ongoing

          changes in regulation, competition and technology and consider

          which developments provide the most favorable opportunities for

          the Company to pursue.



               The Company has certain obligations based on federal, state

          and local laws relating to the protection of the environment.

          Costs of compliance through 1993 have not been material and the

          Company currently has no reason to believe that such costs will

          become material.




          Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.





                                Report of Management
                                ____________________


          To the Shareholders of
          Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc.:

               Management has prepared and is responsible for the Company's
          consolidated financial statements.  The consolidated financial
          statements have been prepared in accordance with generally
          accepted accounting principles and necessarily include amounts
          determined using our best judgments and estimates with
          consideration given to materiality.

               The Company maintains internal control systems and related
          policies and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance
          that the accounting records accurately reflect business
          transactions and that the transactions are in accordance with
          management's authorization.  The design, monitoring and revision
          of the systems of internal control involve, among other things,
          our judgment with respect to the relative cost and expected
          benefits of specific control measures.  Additionally, the Company
          maintains an internal auditing function which independently
          evaluates the effectiveness of internal controls,  policies and
          procedures and formally reports on the adequacy and effectiveness
          thereof.

               The Company's consolidated financial statements have been
          audited by KPMG Peat Marwick, independent certified public
          accountants, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the
          fairness of the consolidated financial statements.  Their audit
          was conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing
          standards, which includes the consideration of the Company's
          internal controls to the extent necessary to form an independent
          opinion on the consolidated financial statements prepared by
          management.

               The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed of
          directors who are not officers or employees of the Company.  The
          Committee meets periodically with the independent certified
          public accountants, internal auditors and management.  This
          Committee considers the audit scope and discusses internal
          control, financial and reporting matters.  Both the independent
          and internal auditors have free access to the Committee.



          R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.
          Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



 


                            Independent Auditors' Report
                            ____________________________

          The Board of Directors
          Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc.:

          We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Century
          Telephone Enterprises, Inc. and subsidiaries as listed in Item
          14a(i).  In connection with our audits of the consolidated
          financial statements, we also have audited the financial
          statement schedules as listed in Item 14a(ii).  These
          consolidated financial statements and financial statement
          schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management.
          Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
          financial statements and financial statement schedules based on
          our audits.

          We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
          auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and
          perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
          the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An
          audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
          the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
          audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
          significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
          the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that
          our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

          In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to
          above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
          position of Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. and subsidiaries
          as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the results of their
          operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
          three-year period ended December 31, 1993, in conformity with
          generally accepted accounting principles.  Also in our opinion,
          the related financial statement schedules, when considered in
          relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
          a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the
          information set forth therein.

          As discussed in notes 4 and 8 to the consolidated financial
          statements, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting
          Standards Board's Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
          No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," and Statement of
          Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting
          for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," in 1992.


          KPMG PEAT MARWICK

          Shreveport, Louisiana
          February 4, 1994





                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                          Consolidated Statements of Income

                                                 Year ended December 31,
          ==================================================================
                                                1993       1992      1991
          __________________________________________________________________
                                                 (expressed in thousands,
                                                except per share amounts)
          REVENUES
               Telephone                      $348,485   297,510   235,796
               Mobile Communications
                 Cellular                       80,513    57,683    41,515
                 Paging                          4,199     4,409     5,216
          __________________________________________________________________
                   Total revenues              433,197   359,602   282,527
          __________________________________________________________________
          EXPENSES
               Cost of sales and operating
                 expenses                      231,855   187,076   155,200
               Depreciation and
                 amortization                   76,534    62,898    52,240
          __________________________________________________________________
                   Total expenses              308,389   249,974   207,440
          __________________________________________________________________
          OPERATING INCOME                     124,808   109,628    75,087
          __________________________________________________________________
          OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
               Interest expense                (30,149)  (27,166)  (22,504)
               Earnings from unconsolidated
                 cellular partnerships           6,626     1,692       697
               Gain on sales of assets           1,661     3,985         -
               Other income, net                 3,310     4,433     4,209
          __________________________________________________________________
                   Total other income 
                     (expense)                 (18,552)  (17,056)  (17,598)
          __________________________________________________________________
          INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND
            CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES
            IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES           106,256    92,572    57,489
          INCOME TAXES                          37,252    32,599    20,070
          __________________________________________________________________
          INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF
            CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES    69,004    59,973    37,419
          CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN
            ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES                    -   (15,668)        -
          __________________________________________________________________
          NET INCOME                           $69,004    44,305    37,419
          ==================================================================
          PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE :
            Income before cumulative effect of
             changes in accounting principles  $  1.35      1.23       .79
            Cumulative effect of changes in
             accounting principles                   -      (.32)        -
          __________________________________________________________________
          PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE           $  1.35       .91       .79
          ==================================================================
          FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE :
            Income before cumulative effect of
             changes in accounting principles  $  1.32      1.22       .79
            Cumulative effect of changes in
             accounting principles                   -      (.31)        -
          __________________________________________________________________
          FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE     $  1.32       .91       .79
          ==================================================================
          DIVIDENDS PER COMMON SHARE           $  .310      .293      .287
          ==================================================================


          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.






                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                             Consolidated Balance Sheets


                                                           December 31,
          ===================================================================
                                                         1993        1992
          ___________________________________________________________________
                                                     (expressed in thousands)
          ASSETS

          CURRENT ASSETS
             Cash and cash equivalents                $   9,777      9,771
             Accounts receivable
               Customers, less allowance for
                 doubtful accounts of $1,473,000
                 and $960,000                            34,438     28,436
               Other                                     21,771     14,111
             Materials and supplies, at cost              4,418      4,512
             Other                                        2,068      3,226
          ___________________________________________________________________
               Total current assets                      72,472     60,056
          ___________________________________________________________________
          PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
             Telephone, at original cost                979,449    871,383
             Accumulated depreciation                  (288,479)  (280,242)
          ___________________________________________________________________
                                                        690,970    591,141
          ___________________________________________________________________
             Mobile Communications, at cost             113,252     71,926
             Accumulated depreciation                   (27,736)   (27,613)
          ___________________________________________________________________
                                                         85,516     44,313
          ___________________________________________________________________
             Other, at cost                              77,737     61,110
             Accumulated depreciation                   (26,447)   (20,686)
          ___________________________________________________________________
                                                         51,290     40,424
          ___________________________________________________________________
               Net property, plant and equipment        827,776    675,878
          ___________________________________________________________________
          INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS
             Excess cost of net assets acquired,
              less accumulated amortization
              of $29,253,000 and $21,975,000            297,158    217,688
             Other investments                           98,142     67,478
             Deferred charges                            23,842     19,387
          ___________________________________________________________________
               Total investments and other assets       419,142    304,553
          ___________________________________________________________________
          TOTAL ASSETS                               $1,319,390  1,040,487
          ===================================================================
          
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                             Consolidated Balance Sheets
                                    (continued)

                                                            December 31,
          ===================================================================
                                                         1993         1992
          ___________________________________________________________________

                                                      (expressed in thousands)

          LIABILITIES AND EQUITY

          CURRENT LIABILITIES
             Current maturities of long-term debt     $  14,233      9,709
             Notes payable to banks                      69,200     32,415
             Accounts payable                            49,506     34,605
             Accrued expenses and other current 
              liabilities                              
               Taxes                                      9,327     10,343
               Interest                                   6,476      6,412
               Other                                     21,152     17,012
             Advance billings and customer deposits       9,312     10,169
          ___________________________________________________________________
               Total current liabilities                179,206    120,665
          ___________________________________________________________________
          LONG-TERM DEBT                                460,933    391,944
          ___________________________________________________________________
          DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER LIABILITIES
             Deferred income taxes                       60,122     39,064
             Deferred investment tax credits             10,431     11,833
             Other                                       94,930     91,532
          ___________________________________________________________________
               Total deferred credits and other
                 liabilities                            165,483    142,429
          ___________________________________________________________________
          STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
             Common stock, $1.00 par value, authorized
              100,000,000 shares, issued and outstanding
              51,294,705 and 48,896,876 shares           51,295     48,897
             Paid-in capital                            262,294    191,522
             Retained earnings                          208,945    155,676
             Employee Stock Ownership Plan commitment    (9,220)   (11,100)
             Preferred stock - non-redeemable               454        454
          ___________________________________________________________________
               Total stockholders' equity               513,768    385,449
          ___________________________________________________________________
          TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY               $1,319,390  1,040,487
          ===================================================================

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

                                                    Year ended December 31,
          ====================================================================
                                                     1993      1992     1991
          ____________________________________________________________________
                                                    (expressed in thousands)

          OPERATING ACTIVITIES
             Net income                             $69,004   44,305   37,419
             Adjustments to reconcile net income 
              to net cash provided by operating 
              activities:
               Depreciation and amortization        86,175    70,762   57,306
               Cumulative effect of changes in 
                accounting principles                  -      15,668      -
               Equity in income of cellular 
                partnerships                        (7,592)   (2,087)    (984)
               Deferred income taxes                 6,781    (1,427)    (335)
               Gain on sales of assets              (1,661)   (3,985)     -
               Changes in current assets and 
                current liabilities:                         
                  Increase in accounts receivable   (7,026)   (2,307)  (6,440)
                  Increase in accounts payable      11,024    11,694    4,581
                  Decrease in other current assets 
                   and other current liabilities, 
                   net                                 659    10,549       32
               Other, net                            9,390     3,152    1,305
          ____________________________________________________________________
                  Net cash provided by operating 
                   activities                      166,754   146,324   92,884
          ____________________________________________________________________
          INVESTING ACTIVITIES
             Acquisitions, net of cash acquired    (54,916) (134,999)  (4,600)
             Payments for property, plant and 
              equipment                           (204,229) (140,057) (95,722)
             Investments in unconsolidated 
              cellular partnerships                 (3,605)   (2,161)  (9,098)
             Proceeds from sales of assets             -       5,049     -
             Purchase of life insurance investment  (7,670)   (6,160)  (6,080)
             Other, net                              3,948     7,166   (7,752)
          ____________________________________________________________________
                  Net cash used in investing 
                   activities                     (266,472) (271,162)(123,252)
          ____________________________________________________________________
          FINANCING ACTIVITIES
             Proceeds from issuance of 
              long-term debt                        82,347   157,087   56,432
             Payments of long-term debt             (9,764)  (44,552) (48,685)
             Notes payable, net                     36,785    17,415    6,000
             Proceeds from issuance of common 
              stock                                  3,529     8,776    6,388
             Cash dividends paid                   (15,735)  (14,119) (13,388)
             Other, net                              2,562    (1,636)   2,668
          ____________________________________________________________________
                  Net cash provided by 
                   financing activities             99,724   122,971    9,415
          ____________________________________________________________________
          NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND
            CASH EQUIVALENTS                             6    (1,867) (20,953)
          ____________________________________________________________________
          CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING
            OF YEAR                                  9,771    11,638   32,591
          ____________________________________________________________________
          CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR  $9,777     9,771   11,638
          ====================================================================

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity

          




                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.

                     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                  December 31, 1993





          (1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES



          Principles of Consolidation - The consolidated financial

          statements of Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. and

          subsidiaries (the "Company") include the accounts of Century

          Telephone Enterprises, Inc. ("Century") and its majority-owned

          subsidiaries and cellular partnerships.  The Company's regulated

          operations are subject to the provisions of Statement of

          Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 ("SFAS 71"), "Accounting

          for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  Unaffiliated

          parties' interests in cellular partnerships which have been

          consolidated are included in other liabilities at December 31,

          1993 and 1992 in the amounts of $10,494,000 and $6,530,000,

          respectively.



               Investments in cellular partnerships where the Company does

          not have a majority partnership interest are accounted for using

          the equity method of accounting.  The Company's share of income

          from these partnerships was $7,592,000, $2,087,000 and $984,000

          in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively, and is included in earnings

          from unconsolidated cellular partnerships.



          Revenue Recognition - Revenues are recognized when earned.

          Certain of Century's telephone subsidiaries participate in

          revenue pools with other telephone companies for interstate

          revenue and for certain intrastate revenue.  Such pools are

          funded by toll revenue and/or access charges within state

          jurisdictions and by access charges in the interstate market.

          Revenue earned through the various pooling processes is initially

          recorded based on estimates.  The Company recorded adjustments,

          based upon settlements of prior years' revenues for certain

          subsidiaries, which increased revenues by $9,152,000, $8,181,000

          and $8,206,000 in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.



          Excess Cost of Net Assets Acquired - The excess cost over net

          assets acquired of substantially all acquisitions accounted for

          as purchases (goodwill) is being amortized over 40 years.

          Amortization of $6,215,000, $4,955,000 and $2,886,000 for 1993,

          1992 and 1991, respectively, is included in depreciation and

          amortization.  Amortization of goodwill attributable to




          unconsolidated investments in cellular partnerships was $966,000,

          $395,000 and $287,000 for 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively, and

          is included as a reduction in earnings from unconsolidated

          cellular partnerships.  The carrying value of goodwill is

          reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in

          circumstances indicate that such carrying value may not be

          recoverable by assessing the recoverability of such carrying

          value through projected undiscounted future results.



          Other Investments - The Company's other investments consist of

          the following:


          December 31,                               1993          1992
          ==================================================================
                                                   (expressed in thousands)
          Cash surrender value of life
             insurance, partially pledged         $ 38,642         30,446
          Investments in unconsolidated
             cellular partnerships                  41,983         23,895
          Investments in marketable
             equity securities, at cost              8,478          7,008
          Other                                      9,039          6,129
          __________________________________________________________________
                                                  $ 98,142         67,478
          ==================================================================

          Affiliated Transactions - Certain service subsidiaries of Century

          provide installation and maintenance services, materials and

          supplies, and managerial, technical and accounting services to

          subsidiaries.  In addition, Century provides and bills management

          services to all subsidiaries and in certain instances makes

          interest-bearing advances to finance construction of plant and

          purchases of equipment.  These purchases are recorded in the

          telephone subsidiaries' accounts at their cost to the extent

          permitted by regulatory authorities.  Intercompany profits on

          service subsidiaries' sales to regulated affiliates are limited

          to a reasonable return on investment and have not been

          eliminated.  Intercompany profits on service subsidiaries' sales

          to nonregulated affiliates have been eliminated.



          Property, Plant and Equipment - Telephone plant is stated

          substantially at original cost of construction.



               Normal retirements of telephone property are charged against

          accumulated depreciation, along with the costs of removal less

          salvage, with no gain or loss recognized.  Renewals and

          betterments of plant and equipment are capitalized while repairs,

          as well as renewals of minor items, are charged to operating

          expense.






               Depreciation of telephone properties is provided on the

          straight-line method, using class or overall composite rates

          acceptable to the regulatory authorities.  Included in 1993, 1992

          and 1991 depreciation expense were additional one-time

          depreciation charges of $3,621,000, $3,854,000 and $1,784,000,

          respectively.  The composite depreciation rate for telephone

          properties was 7.1%, 6.6% and 6.7% for 1993, 1992 and 1991,

          respectively.



               When non-telephone property is sold or retired, a gain or

          loss is recognized.  Depreciation is provided on the straight-

          line method over estimated service lives ranging from three to

          thirty years.



               Depreciation expense was $77,999,000, $64,340,000 and

          $53,197,000 in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.



          Income Taxes - Century files a consolidated federal income tax

          return with its subsidiaries.



               In February 1992 the Financial Accounting Standards Board

          ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.

          109 ("SFAS 109"), "Accounting For Income Taxes."  SFAS 109

          requires the use of a method under which deferred tax assets and

          liabilities are established for the future tax consequences

          attributable to differences between the financial statement

          carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective

          tax bases.



               Effective January 1, 1992, the Company adopted SFAS 109 and

          reported an unfavorable $913,000 cumulative effect of the change

          in the method of accounting for income taxes in the 1992

          consolidated statement of income.  Due to the reduction in

          corporate federal income tax rates as a result of the Tax Reform

          Act of 1986, there existed excess deferred income taxes.

          Pursuant to SFAS 71, a regulatory liability in the amount of

          approximately $47,000,000 and a corresponding reduction in net

          deferred income taxes payable were recorded in 1992 relative to

          the excess deferred income taxes and the regulatory impact

          thereof.  The regulatory liability, net of the related tax impact

          (approximately $20,300,000 at adoption), is being amortized as a

          reduction of federal income tax expense over the estimated

          remaining lives of the assets which generated the deferred taxes.




               Investment tax credits related to telephone plant have been

          deferred and amortized as a reduction of federal income tax

          expense over the estimated useful lives of the assets giving rise

          to the credits.  In accordance with SFAS 109, unamortized

          deferred investment tax credits are treated as temporary

          differences.



          Earnings Per Share - Primary earnings per share amounts are

          determined on the basis of the weighted average number of common

          shares and common stock equivalents outstanding during the year.

          The number of shares used in computing primary earnings per share

          was 51,206,000 in 1993, 48,500,000 in 1992 and 47,305,000 in

          1991.



               Fully diluted earnings per share amounts give further effect

          to convertible securities, primarily the debentures, which are

          not common stock equivalents.  The number of shares used in

          computing fully diluted earnings per share before the cumulative

          effect of changes in accounting principles was 55,892,000 in

          1993, 52,814,000 in 1992 and 47,432,000 in 1991.  For the

          computation of fully diluted earnings per share for 1992, the

          debentures have been excluded as their inclusion would be anti-

          dilutive.  The number of shares used in computing fully diluted

          earnings per share was 55,892,000, 48,653,000 and 47,432,000 in

          1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.



          Cash Equivalents - The Company considers short-term investments

          with a maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be

          cash equivalents.



          Reclassifications - Certain amounts previously reported for prior

          years have been reclassified to conform with the 1993

          presentation.



          (2)  LONG-TERM DEBT

          December 31,                               1993            1992
          ==================================================================
                                                   (expressed in thousands)
          Century
             6.0% convertible debentures, due 2007   $115,000     115,000
             9.8% senior notes                             -        4,813
             9.4% senior notes, due in installments 
                  through 2004                         69,600      71,200
            10.8% notes, due in installments 
                  through 2006                          1,245       1,529
             Notes payable to banks
                  (at money market rates - 3.9%)       81,500      30,000
             8.4% Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
                  commitment, due in installments 
                  through 2000                          9,220      11,100
          __________________________________________________________________
                      Total Century                   276,565     233,642
          __________________________________________________________________
          Subsidiaries
             First mortgage debt
               5.9% notes, payable to agencies of 
                  the United States government and 
                  cooperative lending associations, 
                  due in installments through 2026    158,998     126,670
               7.2% bonds, due in installments 
                  through 2002                         11,699      14,505
             Other debt
               9.0% notes, due in installments 
                  through 2020                          8,633       8,334
               7.6% capital lease obligations, due 
                  in installments through 1997          4,271       3,502
               Notes payable to bank (at money 
                  market rates - 4.1%), due 1995       15,000      15,000
          __________________________________________________________________
                      Total subsidiaries              198,601     168,011
          __________________________________________________________________
          Total long-term debt                        475,166     401,653
          __________________________________________________________________
          Less current maturities                      14,233       9,709
          __________________________________________________________________
          Long-term debt, excluding current 
            maturities                               $460,933     391,944
          ==================================================================


               Except for the 6% convertible debentures, each interest rate

          shown in the preceding table is a weighted average interest rate

          as of December 31, 1993.



               The approximate annual debt maturities (including sinking

          fund requirements) for the five years subsequent to December 31,

          1993 are as follows:  1994 - $14,233,000; 1995 - $77,757,000;

          1996 - $45,611,000; 1997 - $17,182,000; and 1998 - $16,077,000.



               In February 1992 Century issued $115,000,000 of 6%

          convertible debentures.  Interest is payable semiannually in

          August and February.  The debentures are convertible into common

          stock at a conversion price of $25.33 per share and will mature

          on February 1, 2007 unless previously converted or redeemed.  The

          debentures may be redeemed by Century on or after February 1,

          1995.  Certain redemptions through a sinking fund are required

          from 2002 through 2006.  Under certain circumstances the

          debentures are redeemable at the option of the holder.  See note

          12 for information applicable to the use of the proceeds.




               The Company's loan agreements contain various restrictions,

          among which are limitations regarding issuance of additional

          debt, payment of cash dividends on common and preferred stock,

          reacquisition of the Company's capital stock and other matters.

          All of the Company's year-end consolidated retained earnings was

          available for the payment of cash dividends to stockholders.



               The transfer of funds from consolidated subsidiaries to

          Century is also restricted by various loan agreements.

          Subsidiaries which have loans from government agencies and

          cooperative lending associations, or have issued first mortgage

          bonds, generally may not loan or advance any funds to Century,

          but may pay dividends if certain financial ratios are met.  Loan

          agreements of subsidiaries with other major lenders provide

          restrictions as to the payment of dividends, but do not formally

          limit loans and advances to Century.  At December 31, 1993,

          restricted net assets of subsidiaries were $126,528,000 and

          subsidiaries' retained earnings in excess of amounts restricted

          by debt covenants were $286,340,000.



               Substantially all of the telephone property, plant and

          equipment is pledged to secure the long-term debt of

          subsidiaries.



               At December 31, 1993, Century had outstanding $30,500,000

          under a $50,000,000 line of credit (two-year revolver,

          convertible to a five-year term loan) with interest at the rate

          chosen by the Company based on a number of interest rate options.

          In addition, Century had $51,000,000 outstanding under a

          $55,000,000 line of credit (three-year revolving credit facility)

          with similar interest rate options.



               Century's telephone subsidiaries had approximately

          $84,000,000 in commitments for long-term financing from the Rural

          Electrification Administration available at December 31, 1993.

          In addition to the $23,500,000 available under the two lines of

          credit mentioned above, approximately $7,100,000 of additional

          borrowings, some of which would be classified as current

          liabilities, were available at December 31, 1993 to the Company

          through lines of credit with various banks.



               Interest paid by the Company was $30,085,000, $24,035,000

          and $23,407,000 during 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

          Interest capitalized by the Company during 1993, 1992 and 1991

          was $76,000, $547,000 and $91,000, respectively.




          ESOP Commitment - The Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") is

          partially funded by loans guaranteed by Century.  Each loan is to

          be repaid over a 10-year period with level principal payments

          throughout its term.  The weighted average interest rate of the

          loans is 8.4% per annum. The unpaid balances of the loans are

          included in long-term debt.  An equivalent amount, representing

          unearned employee compensation, is reflected as a deduction in

          stockholders' equity.  Both the debt and the amount in

          stockholders' equity are reduced in equal amounts as the ESOP

          repays the loans.



          (3) STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY



          Common Stock - At December 31, 1993, unissued shares of Century's

          common stock were reserved as follows:


          =================================================================
                Conversion of convertible debentures       4,540,000
                Stock option plans                         2,958,000
                Employee stock purchase plan                 506,000
                Dividend reinvestment plan                   409,000
                Conversion of convertible preferred stock    122,000
                Other employee benefit plans               1,243,000
          _________________________________________________________________
                                                           9,778,000
          =================================================================

               As amended in 1991, Article III of Century's Articles of

          Incorporation eliminates prospectively the ability of holders to

          qualify for ten votes per share by providing that only voting

          shares beneficially owned continuously by the same person since

          May 30, 1987 will entitle the holder thereof to ten votes per

          share.  All other shares are entitled to one vote per share.



          Preferred Stock - As of December 31, 1993, Century had authorized

          2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, redeemable or non-

          redeemable.  All outstanding non-redeemable preferred stock has a

          liquidation price equivalent to its par value of $25 per share

          and is cumulative as to dividends; each series has voting rights.

          At December 31, 1993 and 1992, there were 18,162 total shares of

          non-redeemable preferred stock outstanding that were convertible

          to a total of approximately 122,000 common shares.




          Stock Split - In November 1992 Century's Board of Directors

          declared a three-for-two common stock split effected as a 50%

          stock dividend in December 1992.  Per share data for periods

          prior to December 1992 which are included in this report have

          been restated to reflect this stock split.  An amount equal to

          the par value of the additional common shares issued pursuant to

          the stock split was reflected as a transfer from paid-in-capital

          to common stock on the consolidated financial statements in 1992.



          Shareholders' Rights Plan - In 1986 the Board of Directors

          declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right for

          each common share outstanding or that shall become outstanding

          prior to November 26, 1996.  With certain exceptions, if a person

          or group acquires ownership of 15% or more of Century's common

          shares or commences a tender or exchange offer which upon

          consummation would result in ownership of 30% or more of the

          common shares, each right held by shareholders, other than such

          person or group, may be exercised to buy at the then-current

          exercise price of the right (currently $85) the number of shares

          of Series AA Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Century

          having a market value equal to two times the exercise price.  The

          rights, which do not have voting rights, expire on November 27,

          1996 and may be redeemed by Century at a price of $.05 per right

          at any time before they become exercisable.  If, at any time the

          rights are exercisable, Century is a party to a merger, reverse

          merger or other business combination or certain other

          transactions occur, each right will entitle its holder to

          purchase at the exercise price of the right a number of shares of

          common stock of the surviving company having a market value of

          two times the exercise price of the right.  At December 31, 1993,

          519,000 shares of Series AA Junior Participating Preferred Stock

          were reserved for issuance under the Rights Plan.



          (4) INCOME TAXES



               As discussed in note 1, the Company adopted SFAS 109 as of

          January 1, 1992.  The cumulative effect of this change in

          accounting for income taxes resulted in a $913,000 decrease in

          net income and was included in cumulative effect of changes in

          accounting principles in the consolidated statement of income for

          the year ended December 31, 1992.




               Total income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended

          December 31, 1993 and 1992 was allocated as follows:



                                                     1993           1992
          =================================================================
                                                   (expressed in thousands)

          Income before cumulative effect of 
             changes in accounting principles      $ 37,252        32,599
          Cumulative effect of changes in 
             accounting principles                        -        (8,272)
          ________________________________________________________________
          Net tax expense in the consolidated 
             statement of income                     37,252        24,327
          Stockholders' equity, primarily for 
             compensation expense for tax 
             purposes in excess of amounts 
             recognized for financial reporting 
             purposes                                  (800)       (2,885)
          _________________________________________________________________
                                                   $ 36,452        21,442
          =================================================================


               Income tax expense attributable to income before cumulative

          effect of changes in accounting principles is composed of the

          following:





          Year ended December 31,                1993     1992      1991
          =================================================================
                                                (expressed in thousands)
          Federal
             Current                          $ 26,409   29,100    16,227
             Deferred                            6,133   (1,742)     (335)
          State
             Current                             4,062    4,926     4,178
             Deferred                              648      315         -
          _________________________________________________________________
                                              $ 37,252   32,599    20,070
          =================================================================


               The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to

          significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax

          liabilities at December 31, 1993 and 1992 were as follows:




          December 31,                                  1993        1992
          =================================================================
                                                        (expressed in
                                                          thousands)
          Deferred tax assets:
             Postretirement benefit cost            $  10,809     10,194
             Deferred compensation                      2,522      2,246
             Regulatory liability                      12,011     14,705
             Deferred investment tax credits            3,465      3,685
             Other employee benefits                    3,842      2,228
             Other                                        630      4,817
          _________________________________________________________________
               Total gross deferred tax assets         33,279     37,875
               Less valuation allowance                     -          -
          _________________________________________________________________
               Net deferred tax assets                 33,279     37,875
          _________________________________________________________________
          Deferred tax liabilities:
             Property, plant and equipment, primarily
               due to depreciation differences        (84,159)   (73,598)
             Deferred intercompany profits             (3,236)    (2,929)
             Other                                     (6,006)      (412)
          _________________________________________________________________
               Total gross deferred tax liabilities   (93,401)   (76,939)
          _________________________________________________________________
          Net deferred tax liability                $ (60,122)   (39,064)
          =================================================================


               A $20,910,000 deferred tax asset and a valuation allowance

          of a like amount reported at December 31, 1992 have been netted

          during 1993 based on a refined purchase price allocation.



               For the year ended December 31, 1991, deferred tax expense

          resulted from timing differences in the recognition of revenue

          and expense for tax and financial accounting purposes.  The

          sources of these timing differences and the tax effects of each

          were as follows:



          Year ended December 31,                                 1991
          =================================================================
                                                             (expressed
                                                            in thousands)

          Excess tax depreciation over book depreciation        $ 1,636
          Employee benefits                                        (949)
          Removal costs                                             552
          Amortization of investment tax credits                 (2,225)
          Amortization of excess deferred federal income taxes   (1,147)
          Other                                                   1,798
          _________________________________________________________________
                                                                $  (335)
          =================================================================

               The following is a reconciliation from the statutory federal

          income tax rate to the Company's effective income tax rate:






          Year ended December 31,               1993      1992      1991
          =================================================================
                                               (expressed as a percentage
                                                   of pre-tax income)

          Statutory federal income tax rate     35.0%     34.0      34.0
          State income taxes, net of federal 
             income tax benefit                  2.9       3.7       4.8
          Amortization of nondeductible 
             excess cost of net assets 
             acquired                            1.2       2.0       1.7
          Amortization of investment 
             tax credits                        (2.0)     (2.3)     (3.9)
          Amortization of excess deferred 
             federal income taxes               (1.8)     (2.6)     (2.0)
          Other, net                             (.2)       .4        .3
          _________________________________________________________________
          Effective income tax rate             35.1%     35.2      34.9
          =================================================================

               Income taxes paid by the Company were $37,092,000,

          $30,518,000 and $19,962,000 during 1993, 1992 and 1991,

          respectively.



          (5) STOCK OPTION AND INCENTIVE PROGRAMS



               Century's 1990 Incentive Compensation Program (the "1990

          Program") allows the Board of Directors, through the Compensation

          Committee, to grant incentives to employees in any one or a

          combination of the following forms:  incentive stock options and

          non-qualified stock options; stock awards; restricted stock;

          performance shares; and cash awards.  During 1990, 836,904 stock

          options were granted under the terms of the 1990 Program with an

          average option price of $21.58 per share.  During 1992, 960,639

          stock options were granted with an option price of $27.67 per

          share.  Century has reserved 1,873,000 shares of common stock

          which may be issued under the 1990 Program.



               One-seventh of the options granted in 1990 were exercisable

          on the date of grant.  An additional one-seventh become

          exercisable on each of the first six anniversary dates of the

          date of grant.  The dates on which some or all of the last two-

          sevenths become exercisable are accelerated if specified average

          market prices of Century's common stock are attained on one or

          more of the first four anniversary dates of the date of grant.

          The options granted in 1992 became exercisable in June 1993.  The

          options expire ten years after the date of grant.



               The Company's 1988 Incentive Compensation Program (the "1988

          Program") allows the Board, through the Compensation Committee,

          to grant incentives to employees in any one or a combination of

          the following forms:  incentive stock options and non-qualified

          stock options; stock appreciation rights; stock awards;

          restricted stock; performance shares; and cash awards.



          Century has reserved 1,085,000 shares of common stock which may

          be issued under the 1988 Program.  The options under the 1988 

          Program expire ten years after the date of grant.



               Stock option transactions during 1991, 1992 and 1993 were as

          follows:


                                                       Number of Options
                                                       _________________
                                                       1990          1988
                                                      Program      Program
          =================================================================
          Balance as of December 31, 1990             836,904    1,391,007
             Exercised (average option price 
                per share: $8.85)                           -     (239,283)
          _________________________________________________________________
          Balance as of December 31, 1991             836,904    1,151,724
             Exercised (average option price 
                per share: $8.97)                           -     (516,398)
             Granted (option price per share:  
                $27.67)                               960,639            -
          _________________________________________________________________
          Balance as of December 31, 1992           1,797,543      635,326
             Exercised (average option price 
                per share: $20.42
                and $9.32, respectively)               (2,658)     (48,462)
          _________________________________________________________________
          Balance as of December 31, 1993           1,794,885      586,864
          =================================================================

               At December 31, 1993, 1,499,104 and 586,864 shares were

          issuable under exercisable options granted under the 1990 Program

          and the 1988 Program, respectively.  Option prices range from

          $8.85 to $27.67.



          (6) SALES OF ASSETS



               During 1993 the Company sold a minority investment in a

          telephone company which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $1,661,000

          ($1,080,000 after-tax).



               During 1992 the Company sold two telephone subsidiaries

          which served approximately 2,000 access lines; its minority

          interest in a Metropolitan Statistical Area ("MSA") cellular

          partnership and its minority interest in a Rural Service Area

          ("RSA") cellular partnership; and its 100% interest in an RSA

          cellular market.  The sales prices totaled $12,212,000, and the

          transactions resulted in an aggregate pre-tax gain of $3,985,000

          ($2,630,000 after-tax).



          (7) BUSINESS SEGMENTS



               The Company currently operates in two principal segments -

          traditional telephone services and mobile communications

          services.



               The Company's telephone customers are located in rural,

          suburban and small urban communities in 14 states.  Approximately

          82% of the Company's telephone access lines are in




          Wisconsin, Ohio, Louisiana, Michigan and Arkansas.  The Company's
          
          mobile communications customers are located primarily in

          Louisiana and Michigan.



               Other accounts receivable are primarily amounts due from

          various long distance carriers, principally AT&T.



          Year ended December 31,              1993      1992      1991
          =================================================================
                                               (expressed in thousands)
          Telephone Operations

          Revenues
             Local service                  $  88,704    78,108    58,653
             Network access, long 
               distance and other             259,781   219,402   177,143
          _________________________________________________________________
                                              348,485   297,510   235,796
          _________________________________________________________________

          Expenses
             Cost of sales and operating 
               expenses                       168,408   139,911   111,275
             Depreciation and amortization     65,175    53,927    44,482
          _________________________________________________________________

                                              233,583   193,838   155,757
          _________________________________________________________________

               Operating income             $ 114,902   103,672    80,039
          =================================================================
          Capital expenditures              $ 131,180   108,974    73,913
          Identifiable assets              $1,027,390   843,356   616,992
          =================================================================

          Mobile Communications Operations

          Revenues
             Cellular                        $ 80,513    57,683    41,515
             Paging                             4,199     4,409     5,216
          _________________________________________________________________
                                               84,712    62,092    46,731
          _________________________________________________________________
          Expenses
             Cost of sales and operating 
               expenses                        63,447    47,165    43,925
             Depreciation and amortization     11,359     8,971     7,758
          _________________________________________________________________
                                               74,806    56,136    51,683
          _________________________________________________________________
               Operating income (loss)       $  9,906     5,956    (4,952)
          _________________________________________________________________
          Capital expenditures               $ 56,092    10,904    12,702
          Identifiable assets                $240,634   148,485   116,293
          =================================================================


               The effect of the change in accounting principle related to

          accounting for postretirement benefits reduced 1992 operating

          income of the telephone operations and mobile communications

          operations by $1,773,000 and $250,000, respectively.




          (8) POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS



               The Company sponsors a defined benefit health care plan (the

          "Retiree Plan") that provides postretirement medical, life and

          dental benefits to substantially all retired full-time employees,

          exclusive of the bargaining unit employees of Century Telephone

          of Ohio, Inc. ("Ohio").



               The acquisition of Ohio was consummated on April 1, 1992.

          The employees of Ohio who are covered under a collective

          bargaining agreement and who meet certain eligibility

          requirements are provided postretirement medical and life

          insurance benefits upon retirement under the provisions of a

          separate plan (the "Ohio Plan" and, together with the Retiree

          Plan, the "Benefit Plans").



               The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting

          Standards No. 106 ("SFAS 106"), "Employers' Accounting for

          Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," as of January 1,

          1992 and elected immediate recognition of the transition

          obligation.  In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 71 the

          Company deferred $3,450,000 of the $27,390,000 transition

          obligation as a regulatory asset; such costs are being expensed

          in connection with recovery through the rate-making process.  The

          remaining $23,940,000, net of tax benefits which aggregated

          $9,185,000, was reported as the cumulative effect of a change in

          accounting principles.  The effects of adopting SFAS 106 on net

          income and on income before cumulative effect of changes in

          accounting principles for the year ended December 31, 1992 were

          decreases of $16,009,000 and $1,254,000, respectively.

          Postretirement benefit costs of approximately $1,475,000 for the

          year ended December 31, 1991, which were recorded on a pay-as-

          you-go basis, were not restated.



               Net periodic postretirement benefit cost under the Benefit

          Plans for 1993 and 1992 included the following components:





          Year ended December 31,                   1993             1992
          =================================================================
                                                   (expressed in thousands)

          Service cost                             $ 1,640          1,040
          Interest cost                              3,008          2,521
          Amortization of unrecognized 
            actuarial losses                           365              -
          Amortization of unrecognized 
            prior service cost                          86              -
          _________________________________________________________________
          Net periodic postretirement 
            benefit cost                           $ 5,099          3,561
          =================================================================

               The following table sets forth the amounts recognized as

          liabilities for postretirement benefits in the Company's

          consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 1993 and 1992.



          December 31,                              1993             1992
          =================================================================
                                                   (expressed in thousands)
          Accumulated postretirement benefit
             obligation:
               Retirees and retirees' dependents  $ 20,451         15,796
               Fully eligible active plan 
                 participants                            -            537
               Other active plan participants       24,980         16,991
          _________________________________________________________________
          Accumulated postretirement
             benefit obligation                     45,431         33,324
          Plan assets                                    -              -
          Unrecognized prior service cost           (1,177)             -
          Unrecognized net loss                     (6,302)             -
          _________________________________________________________________
          Accrued postretirement benefit
             costs included in other liabilities  $ 37,952         33,324
          =================================================================


               For measurement purposes, an 8% health care cost rate was

          assumed for 1993 through 1996; the rate was assumed to decrease

          to 7% thereafter.  If the assumed health care cost trend rate had

          been increased by one percentage point in each year, the

          accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31,

          1993 would have increased $5,219,000 and the net periodic

          postretirement benefit cost for the year ended December 31, 1993

          would have increased $756,000.



               The discount rate used in determining the accumulated

          postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 1993 was 7%.

          The average discount rate used in 1992 was 8.85%.




          (9) PENSION PLANS



               Century sponsors an Outside Directors' Retirement Plan and a

          Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan to provide directors and

          officers, respectively, with supplemental retirement and

          disability benefits.  In addition, the bargaining unit employees

          of Ohio, a wholly-owned subsidiary which was acquired April 1,

          1992, are provided benefits under a defined benefit pension plan.

          At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the combined accumulated benefit

          obligation of the plans, substantially all of which was vested,

          aggregated $16,321,000 and $15,167,000, respectively.  The

          projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets was

          $7,390,000 and $7,229,000, of which $3,371,000 and $3,704,000 was

          accrued as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  The net

          periodic pension cost for 1993, 1992 and 1991 was $1,057,000,

          $930,000 and $965,000, respectively.  Discount rates ranged from

          7.0% - 7.25% for 1993 and from 7.0% - 8.3.% for 1992.



               Century sponsors an Employee Stock Bonus Plan ("ESBP") and

          an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP").  These plans cover

          most employees with one year of service with the Company and are

          funded by Company contributions determined annually by the Board

          of Directors.



               The Company recorded contributions related to the ESBP in

          the amount of $1,800,000, $1,120,000 and $540,000 during 1993,

          1992 and 1991, respectively.  At December 31, 1993, the ESBP

          owned 4,454,403 shares of Century common stock.



               The ESOP held 1,882,935 common shares of Century and had

          outstanding debt of $9,220,000 at December 31, 1993.  Interest

          incurred by the ESOP on its debt was $895,000, $1,052,000 and

          $1,205,000 in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  As the Company

          makes annual contributions to the ESOP, these contributions,

          along with dividends earned on shares held by the ESOP, are used

          to repay the debt.  The Company contributed $2,596,000,

          $2,427,000 and $2,728,000 during 1993, 1992 and 1991,

          respectively, to the ESOP.  Dividends on ESOP shares used for

          debt service by the ESOP were $580,000, $560,000 and $554,000 in

          1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.



          (10) FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS




          Cash and Cash Equivalents, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable

          and Notes Payable to Banks - The carrying amount approximates the

          fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.



          Other Investments - The fair value of the Company's investments

          in marketable equity securities, based on quoted market prices,

          was $11,444,000 and $7,230,000 at December 31, 1993 and 1992,

          respectively.  The carrying amount of the cash surrender value of

          life insurance approximates the fair value.



          Long-Term Debt - The fair value ($502,826,000 and $399,783,000 at

          December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively) of the Company's long-

          term debt  is estimated by discounting the scheduled payment

          streams to present value based upon rates currently offered to

          the Company for debt of similar remaining maturities.



          (11) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



               Construction expenditures and investments in vehicles,

          buildings and other work equipment during 1994 are estimated to

          be $142,000,000 for telephone operations, $50,000,000 for mobile

          communications operations (of which $10,000,000 will be funded by

          minority interest owners in cellular partnerships operated by the

          Company) and $4,000,000 for other operations.



               The Company is involved in various claims and legal actions

          arising in the ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of

          management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not

          have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated

          financial position or results of operations.

          (12) ACQUISITIONS



               On April 8, 1993, the Company acquired San Marcos Telephone

          Company, Inc. ("SMTC") in a stock and cash transaction and SM

          Telecorp, Inc., an affiliate of SMTC, for cash.  Subsequent to

          the acquisitions, the Company changed the names of San Marcos

          Telephone Company, Inc. and the principal operating subsidiary of

          SM Telecorp, Inc. to Century Telephone of San Marcos, Inc. and

          Century Telecommunications, Inc., respectively.  The total

          acquisition price for both companies approximated $100,000,000,

          the stock portion (approximately $67,000,000) of which was

          represented by approximately 2,151,000 shares of Century's common

          stock.  As a result of the acquisitions, which were accounted for

          as purchases, the



                 

          Company acquired approximately 22,500 telephone

          access lines in and around San Marcos, Texas, along with a 35%

          ownership interest in the Austin, Texas MSA wireline cellular

          market and a 9.6% interest in the Texas RSA #16 wireline cellular

          market.  Approximately $87,000,000 of cost in excess of net

          assets acquired was recorded as a result of the acquisitions.



               On April 1, 1992 the Company acquired Central Telephone

          Company of Ohio ("Central") for $120,000,000 and changed

          Central's name to Century Telephone of Ohio, Inc. ("Ohio").  Ohio

          is a local exchange telephone company with approximately 68,100

          access lines located in suburbs of Cleveland, Ohio.  The net

          proceeds from the issuance of debentures were used to fund the

          major portion of the acquisition of Ohio.  The acquisition was

          accounted for as a purchase and approximately $80,000,000 of cost

          in excess of net assets acquired was recorded.



               During the first quarter of 1992, the Company purchased

          Ooltewah-Collegedale Telephone Company ("Ooltewah") and Chatham

          Telephone Co., Inc. ("Chatham").  Ooltewah provides service to

          6,200 customers in suburbs of Chattanooga, Tennessee.  Chatham

          owns a minority interest in a cellular partnership operated by

          the Company and serves 1,500 telephone customers in north

          Louisiana.  In December 1992 the Company acquired 100% of the

          Alexandria, Louisiana MSA wireline cellular market

          ("Alexandria").



               The purchase prices of Ooltewah, Chatham and Alexandria

          aggregated approximately $37,000,000, of which approximately

          $21,475,000 was paid through the issuance of 978,115 shares of

          Century's common stock.



               The following pro forma information represents the

          consolidated results of operations of the Company as if each 1993

          and 1992 acquisition had been combined with the Company as of

          January 1 of each respective period.


          Year ended December 31,                 1993             1992
          ===============================================================
                                                (expressed in thousands,
                                               except per share amounts)
                                                      (unaudited)
          Revenues                              $438,418         395,033
          Income before cumulative effect of 
             changes in accounting principles    $69,122          58,324
          Net income                             $69,122          42,656
          Fully diluted earnings per share 
             before cumulative effect of 
             changes in accounting principles    $  1.31            1.12
          Fully diluted earnings per share       $  1.31             .85
          ===============================================================





               The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of

          the operating results that would have occured if each 1993 and

          1992 acquisition had been consummated as of January 1 of each

          respective period, nor is it necessarily indicative of future

          operating results.  The actual results of operations of an

          acquired company are included in the Company's consolidated

          financial statements only from the date of acquisition.



          (13) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (UNAUDITED)



               In September 1993 the Company signed a merger agreement

          whereby it will acquire a local exchange telephone company in

          Michigan which serves approximately 2,400 access lines and which

          owns a minority interest of approximately 11% in a cellular

          partnership operated by the Company.  This transaction is

          expected to be completed in the first quarter of 1994.



               In October 1993 the Company executed a merger agreement with

          Celutel, Inc. under which Century acquired Celutel for

          approximately $102,000,000 during the first quarter of 1994.

          Approximately $51,400,000 of the purchase price was paid in cash,

          with the remainder being paid through the issuance of 1,900,000

          shares of Century common stock.  In connection with the

          acquisition, Century refinanced approximately $41,700,000 of

          Celutel's debt.  The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase

          and approximately $138,000,000 of cost in excess of net assets

          acquired was recorded as a result of the acquisition. Celutel

          provides cellular service to approximately 28,000 customers in

          five non-wireline provider systems in MSAs in Mississippi and

          Texas.




                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                Consolidated Quarterly Income Information (unaudited)



             Fully diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 1993
          reflect a decrease of $.04 per share (compared to the fourth
          quarter of 1992) related to cellular commissions incurred as a
          result of the significant increase in the number of cellular
          subscribers activated during December 1993; such decrease was
          offset by non-recurring favorable income tax adjustments of $.04
          per share.

             Fully diluted earnings per share before cumulative effect of
          changes in accounting principles for the fourth quarter of 1992
          reflect a $.06 per share impact of favorable adjustments to
          telephone revenues and a $.04 per share impact from gains on the
          sales of assets.

             Fully diluted earnings per share before cumulative effect of
          changes in accounting principles for 1992 have been adjusted to
          reflect the December 1992 stock split.  See note 3 of Notes to
          Consolidated Financial Statements.

             Certain amounts previously reported for 1992 have been
          reclassified to conform with 1993 presentation.






          Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on

                    Accounting and Financial Disclosure.



              None.



                                      PART III



          Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.



          Executive Officers



              The name, age and office(s) held by each of the Registrant's

          executive officers are shown below.  Each of the executive

          officers listed below serves at the pleasure of the Board of

          Directors, except Mr. Williams who has entered into an employment

          agreement with the Registrant effective through May 1996 and from

          year to year thereafter subject to the right of Mr. Williams or

          the Company to terminate the employment agreement in accordance

          with the terms of such agreement.





          Name                     Age     Office(s) held with Century
          ____                     ___     ___________________________

          Clarke M. Williams       72      Chairman of the Board
                                            of Directors

          Glen F. Post, III        41      Vice Chairman of the
                                            Board of Directors, President
                                            and Chief Executive Officer

          R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.    42      Senior Vice President and Chief
                                            Financial Officer

          W. Bruce Hanks           39      President - Telecommunications
                                            Services

          Harvey P. Perry          49      Senior Vice President, General
                                            Counsel and Secretary

          Jim D. Reppond           52      President - Telephone Group


              Each of the Registrant's executive officers has served as an

          officer of the Registrant or one or more of its subsidiaries in

          varying capacities for more than the past 5 years.




              The balance of the information required by Item 10 is

          incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy

          statement relating to its 1994 annual meeting of stockholders (the

          "Proxy Statement"), which Proxy Statement will be filed pursuant

          to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the last fiscal

          year.



          Item 11.  Executive Compensation.



              The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by

          reference to the Proxy Statement.



          Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  and

                    Management.



              The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by

          reference to the Proxy Statement.



          Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.



              The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by

          reference to the Proxy Statement.


                                       PART IV



          Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on

                    Form 8-K.



                a.  Financial Statements



                    (i)  Consolidated Financial Statements:



                         Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated

                           Financial Statements and Financial Statement 
                           
                           Schedules



                         Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years

                           Ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991



                         Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1993 and




                         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years

                           Ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991




                         Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for

                           the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991



                         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



                         Consolidated Quarterly Income Information

                           (unaudited)



                    (ii) Schedules:*



                         III Condensed Financial Information of Registrant



                          V  Property, Plant and Equipment



                         VI  Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization of

                               Property, Plant and Equipment



                         IX  Short-Term Borrowings



                          X  Supplementary Income Statement Information



                          *  Those Schedules not listed above are omitted as

                               not applicable or not required.



                b.  Report on Form 8-K.

                    The following Current Report on Form 8-K was filed

                      during the fourth quarter of 1993:



                    October 8, 1993
                    _______________


                       Item 5. Other Events - Execution of definitive

                       agreement and plan of merger pursuant to which

                       Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. proposes to

                       acquire Celutel, Inc.



                c.  Exhibits:




                   3(i)     Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of

                            Registrant, dated December 15, 1988

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to

                            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

                            year ended December 31, 1988), as amended by the

                            Articles of Amendment dated May 2, 1989

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to

                            Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated

                            May 5, 1989), by the Articles of Amendment dated

                            May 17, 1990 (incorporated by reference to

                            Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant's Post-Effective

                            Amendment No. 2 on Form S-3 dated December 21,

                            1990, Registration No. 33-17114) and by the

                            Articles of Amendment dated May 30, 1991

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of

                            Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated

                            June 12, 1991).



                   3(ii)    Registrant's Bylaws, as amended through February

                            22, 1994, included elsewhere herein.



                   4.1      Loan Agreement, dated January 3, 1990, between

                            Registrant and National Bank of Detroit, First

                            National Bank of Commerce and Bank One, Texas,

                            National Association (incorporated by reference

                            to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Annual Report on

                            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989)

                            and amendment thereto dated May 15, 1992

                            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to

                            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

                            year ended December 31, 1992) and the second

                            amendment thereto dated March 31,1993

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.1 to

                            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for

                            the quarter ended March 31, 1993).



                   4.2      Note Purchase Agreement, dated September 1, 1989,

                            between Registrant, Teachers Insurance and

                            Annuity Association of America and the Lincoln

                            National Life Insurance Company (incorporated by

                            reference to Exhibit 4.23 to Registrant's

                            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter

                            ended September 30, 1989).



                   4.3      Agreement, dated November 27, 1977, among

                            Registrant, The Travelers Insurance Company and

                            The Travelers Indemnity Company, and form of

                            Warrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 4

                            and 5 to 
                            
                            

                            
                            
                            
                            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K

                            for the year ended December 31, 1977).



                   4.10     Form of Indenture dated May 1, 1940 among Century

                            Telephone of Wisconsin, Inc. (formerly La Crosse

                            Telephone Corporation) and the First National

                            Bank of Chicago and William K. Stevens

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to

                            Registration No. 2-48478).



                   4.11     Supplemental Indenture No. 12 (incorporated by

                            reference to Exhibit 5.12 to Registration No. 2-

                            62172) and Supplemental Indentures 13 and 14

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 5.11 to

                            Registration No. 2-68731), each of which are

                            supplemental indentures to the Form of Indenture

                            dated May 1, 1940 listed above as Exhibit 4.10.



                   4.12     Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of

                            November 17, 1986 between Century Telephone

                            Enterprises, Inc. and the Rights Agent named

                            therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit

                            4.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K

                            dated December 20, 1988), the Amendment thereto

                            dated March 26, 1990 (incorporated by reference

                            to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report

                            on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,

                            1990) and the Second Amendment thereto dated

                            February 23, 1993 (incorporated by reference to

                            Exhibit 4.12 to Registrant's Annual Report on

                            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992).



                   4.16     Note Purchase Agreement, dated May 6, 1986, among

                            Registrant, Teachers Insurance and Annuity

                            Association of America, Aetna Life Insurance

                            Company, the Aetna Casualty and Surety Company

                            and Lincoln National Pension Insurance Company

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.23 to

                            Registration No. 33-5836), Amendatory Agreement

                            dated November 1, 1986 (incorporated by

                            reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant's Annual

                            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December

                            31, 1986), amendment thereto dated November 1,

                            1987 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2

                            to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for

                            the year ended December 31, 1987) and

                            Modification Letter dated September 1, 1989

                            (incorporated by 
                            
                            


                            
                            
                            reference to Exhibit 19.6 to Registrant's 
                            
                            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for

                            the quarter ended September 30, 1989).



                   4.21 *   The Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Stock Bonus

                            Plan, PAYSOP and Trust, as amended and restated

                            September 10, 1987 and  amendment thereto dated

                            February 29, 1988 (incorporated by reference to

                            Exhibit 4.21 to Registrant's Annual Report on

                            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987),

                            amendments thereto dated March 21, 1991 and

                            April 15, 1991, (incorporated by reference to

                            Exhibit 4.21 to Registrant's Annual Report on

                            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991),

                            amendment thereto dated March 31, 1992

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.21 to

                            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

                            year ended December 31, 1992) and amendments

                            thereto dated June 1, 1993 and June 10, 1993,

                            included elsewhere herein.



                   4.22     Form of common stock certificate of the Registrant

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to

                            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for

                            the quarter ended June 30, 1993).



                   4.23     Indenture, dated February 1, 1992, between

                            Registrant and First American Bank and Trust of

                            Louisiana (incorporated by reference to Exhibit

                            4.23 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K

                            for the year ended December 31, 1991).



                   4.24     Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated February

                            7, 1992 between Registrant and NationsBank of

                            Texas, N.A. (incorporated by reference to

                            Exhibit 4.24 to Registrant's Annual Report on

                            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991),

                            amendment thereto dated April 8, 1993

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.2 to

                            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for

                            the quarter ended March 31, 1993) and amendment

                            thereto dated July 9, 1993, included elsewhere

                            herein.



                   4.25     Credit Agreement, dated February 9, 1994 between

                            Registrant, NationsBank of Texas, N.A., Bank

                            One, Texas, N.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia, First

                            National Bank of Commerce and Texas Commerce

                            Bank National Association, included elsewhere

                            herein.




                   10.1 *   Employment Agreement, dated May 24, 1993, by and

                            between Clarke M. Williams and Registrant

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.1 to

                            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for

                            the quarter ended June 30, 1993).



                   10.2 *   Form of employment agreement that the registrant

                            has entered into with each Executive Officer

                            other than Mr. Williams (incorporated by

                            reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Annual

                            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December

                            31, 1990).



                   10.3 *   Registrant's Outside Directors' Retirement Plan,

                            dated November 19, 1984 (incorporated by

                            reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form

                            10-K for the year ended December 31, 1985),

                            amendment thereto dated February 21, 1989

                            (incorporated by reference to Registrant's

                            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended

                            December 31, 1988) and amendment thereto dated

                            May 17, 1991 (incorporated by reference to

                            Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's Annual Report on

                            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991).



                   10.4 *   Registrant's Amended and Restated Supplemental

                            Executive Retirement Plan, as amended and

                            restated May 17, 1991 (incorporated by reference

                            to Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's Annual Report on

                            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991)

                            and amendment thereto dated February 24, 1993

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to

                            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

                            year ended December 31, 1992).



                   10.5 *   Registrant's 1983 Restricted Stock Plan, dated

                            February 21, 1984 (incorporated by reference to

                            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

                            year ended December 31, 1985).



                   10.6 *   Registrant's Key Employee Incentive Compensation

                            Plan, dated January 1, 1984 (incorporated by

                            reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form

                            10-K for the year ended December 31, 1985).





                   10.7 *   The Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Dollars &

                            Sense Plan and Trust, as amended and restated

                            April 1, 1992 (incorporated by reference to

                            Exhibit 10.7 to Registrant's Annual Report on

                            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992)

                            and amendments thereto dated as of January 1,

                            1993, April 1, 1993, April 9, 1993 and July 1,

                            1993, included elsewhere herein.



                   10.8 *   Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Employee Stock

                            Ownership Plan and Trust, dated March 20, 1987

                            (incorporated by reference to Registrant's

                            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended

                            December 31, 1986), amendment thereto dated

                            February 29, 1988 (incorporated by reference to

                            Exhibit 10.9 to Registrant's Annual Report on

                            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987),

                            amendments thereto dated March 21, 1991 and

                            April 15, 1991 (incorporated by reference to

                            Exhibit 10.8 to Registrant's Annual Report on

                            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991),

                            amendments thereto dated March 31, 1992

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to

                            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

                            year ended December 31, 1992) and amendments

                            thereto dated June 1, 1993 and June 10, 1993,

                            included elsewhere herein.



                   10.9 *   Registrant's 1988 Incentive Compensation Program as

                            amended and restated August 22, 1989

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.8 to

                            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for

                            the quarter ended September 30, 1989).



                   10.10 *  Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in

                            1988 by the Registrant, pursuant to 1988

                            Incentive Compensation Program, with certain of

                            its officers (incorporated by reference to

                            Exhibit 10.10 to Registrant's Annual Report on

                            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988)

                            and amendment thereto (incorporated by reference

                            to Exhibit 4.6 to Registrant's Registration No.

                            33-31314).



                   10.11 *  Registrant's 1990 Incentive Compensation

                            Program, dated March 15, 1990 (incorporated by

                            reference to Exhibit 19.1 to Registrant's

                            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter

                            ended June 30, 1990).




                   10.12 *  Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in

                            1990 by the Registrant, pursuant to 1990

                            Incentive Compensation Program, with certain of

                            its officers (incorporated by reference to

                            Exhibit 19.3 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on

                            Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1990).



                   10.13 *  Disability Retirement Agreement, dated July

                            17, 1990, between Clarke M. Williams, Jr. and

                            Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc.

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.2 to

                            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for

                            the quarter ended June 30, 1990).



                   10.15    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September

                            24, 1992, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto,

                            by and among Registrant, San Marcos Telephone

                            Company, Incorporated, SM Telecorp, Inc., SMTC

                            Acquisition Corp. and SMT Acquisition Corp.

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 of

                            Registrant's Registration on Form S-4 dated

                            February 3, 1993, Registration No. 33-57838).



                   10.16 *  Registrant's Amended and Restated Salary

                            Continuation (Disability) Plan for Officers,

                            dated November 26, 1991 (incorporated by

                            reference to Exhibit 10.16 of Registrant's

                            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended

                            December 31, 1991).



                   10.17 *  Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in

                            1992 by the Registrant, pursuant to 1990

                            Incentive Compensation Program, with certain of

                            its officers and employees (incorporated by

                            reference to Exhibit 10.17 to Registrant's

                            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended

                            December 31, 1992).



                   10.18 *  Form of Performance Share Agreement Under the

                            1990 Incentive Compensation Program, entered

                            into in 1993 with certain of its officers and

                            employees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit

                            28.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form

                            10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1993).





                   10.19 *  Form of Restricted Stock Agreement and

                            Performance Share Agreement Under the 1988

                            Incentive Compensation Program, entered into in

                            1993 with certain of its officers and employees

                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 28.2 to

                            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for

                            the quarter ended March 31, 1993).



                   10.20    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 8, 1993,

                            as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated

                            January 5, 1994 by and among Registrant, Celutel

                            Acquisition Corp., Celutel, Inc. and the

                            Principal Stockholders of Celutel, Inc.

                            (incorporated by reference to Appendix I of

                            Registrant's Prospectus forming a part of its

                            Registration Statement No. 33-50791 filed

                            January 12, 1994 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5)).



                   11       Computations of Earnings Per Share, included

                            elsewhere herein.



                   21       Subsidiaries of the Registrant, included elsewhere

                            herein.



                   23       Independent Auditors' Consent, included elsewhere

                            herein.



                    *  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.






                                     SIGNATURES


              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
          this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
          thereunto duly authorized.

                                    CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES,INC.



          Date:  March 16, 1994    By:  /s/ Clarke M. Williams
                                        Clarke M. Williams
                                      Chairman of the Board

              Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
          of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
          persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
          the date indicated.


          /s/ Clarke M. Williams    Chairman of the Board
          Clarke M. Williams         of Directors           March 16, 1994



                                    Vice Chairman of the
                                     Board of Directors,
          /s/ Glen F. Post, III      President, and Chief
          Glen F. Post, III          Executive Officer      March 16, 1994



                                    Senior Vice President
          /s/ R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.  and Chief Financial
          R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.      Officer                March 16, 1994



                                    Senior Vice President,
          /s/ Harvey P. Perry        Secretary, General
          Harvey P. Perry            Counsel and Director   March 16, 1994




          /s/ Jim D. Reppond        President - Telephone
          Jim D. Reppond             Group and Director     March 16, 1994





                                     Signatures
                                     (Continued)




          /s/ W. Bruce Hanks        President - Telecommunications
          W. Bruce Hanks             Services and Director  March 16, 1994



          /s/ Murray H. Greer       Controller (Principal
          Murray H. Greer            Accounting Officer)    March 16, 1994



          /s/ William R. Boles, Jr.       Director
          William R. Boles, Jr.                             March 16, 1994



          /s/ Ernest Butler, Jr.          Director
          Ernest Butler, Jr.                                March 16, 1994



          /s/ Calvin Czeschin             Director
          Calvin Czeschin                                   March 16, 1994



          /s/ James B. Gardner            Director
          James B. Gardner                                  March 16, 1994



          /s/ R. L. Hargrove, Jr.         Director
          R. L. Hargrove, Jr.                               March 16, 1994



          /s/ Johnny Hebert               Director
          Johnny Hebert                                     March 16, 1994



          /s/ F. Earl Hogan               Director
          F. Earl Hogan                                     March 16, 1994







                                     Signatures
                                     (Continued)




          /s/ Tom S. Lovett               Director
          Tom S. Lovett                                     March 16, 1994



          /s/ C. G. Melville              Director
          C. G. Melville                                    March 16, 1994








            SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                  (Parent Company)

                                STATEMENTS OF INCOME





 
            SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                     (continued)

                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                  (Parent Company)

                                   BALANCE SHEETS



                                                            December 31,
          _____________________________________________________________________
                                                        1993            1992
          _____________________________________________________________________
                                                      (expressed in thousands)

          ASSETS


          CURRENT ASSETS
               Cash and cash equivalents                $ 5,547        2,570
               Receivables from subsidiaries             53,638       46,967
               Other receivables                          7,330        1,168
               Prepayments and other                        857          343
          _____________________________________________________________________
                  Total current assets                   67,372       51,048
          _____________________________________________________________________
          
          PROPERTY, PLANT
            AND EQUIPMENT
               Property and equipment                     1,192        1,119
               Accumulated depreciation                    (772)        (681)
          _____________________________________________________________________
                  Net property, plant and equipment         420          438
          _____________________________________________________________________
          
          INVESTMENTS AND
            OTHER ASSETS
               Investments in subsidiaries (at equity)  771,062      579,579
               Receivables from subsidiaries            130,568      124,215
               Other investments, at cost                22,368        3,117
               Deferred charges                           3,788        3,920
          _____________________________________________________________________
                  Total investments and other assets    927,786      710,831
          _____________________________________________________________________
          
          TOTAL ASSETS                                  $995,578     762,317
          =====================================================================





            SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                     (continued)

                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                  (Parent Company)

                                   BALANCE SHEETS
                                     (continued)

                                                             December 31,
          ____________________________________________________________________
                                                           1993       1992
          ____________________________________________________________________
                                                      (expressed in thousands)

          LIABILITIES AND EQUITY


          CURRENT LIABILITIES
               Current maturities of long-term debt       $ 4,450     4,027
               Notes payable to banks                      69,000    32,000
               Payables to subsidiaries                    93,540    91,469
               Accrued interest                             5,431     5,098
               Other accrued liabilities                    3,656     3,500
          ____________________________________________________________________
                    Total current liabilities             176,077   136,094
          ____________________________________________________________________
          

          LONG-TERM DEBT                                  272,115   229,615
          ____________________________________________________________________
          

          PAYABLES TO SUBSIDIARIES                         25,696     3,919
          ____________________________________________________________________
          

          DEFERRED CREDITS AND
            OTHER LIABILITIES                               7,922     7,240
          ____________________________________________________________________
           

          STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
               Common stock, $1.00 par value, 
                 authorized 100,000,000 shares, issued 
                 and outstanding 51,294,705 and 
                 48,896,876 shares                         51,295    48,897
               Paid-in capital                            262,294   191,522
               Retained earnings                          208,945   155,676
               Employee Stock Ownership Plan commitment    (9,220)  (11,100)
               Preferred stock - non-redeemable               454       454
          ____________________________________________________________________
                    Total stockholders' equity            513,768   385,449
          ____________________________________________________________________
          
          TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                   $995,578   762,317
          ====================================================================



            SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                     (continued)

                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                  (Parent Company)

                              STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS






            SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                     (continued)

                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                  (Parent Company)

               NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT


          (A) LONG-TERM DEBT

              The approximate annual debt maturities (including sinking
          fund requirements) for the five years subsequent to December 31,
          1993 are as follows:

                                    1994 -  $  4,450,000
                                    1995 -  $ 55,481,000
                                    1996 -  $ 37,566,000
                                    1997 -  $  7,014,000
                                    1998 -  $  9,817,000

          (B) GUARANTEES

              As of December 31, 1993, Century has guaranteed a promissory
          note for a subsidiary of $2,889,000, as well as the applicable
          interest and premium.  Century has also guaranteed $1,085,000 in
          Industrial Development Revenue Bonds originally issued by a
          subsidiary; such bonds were assumed by the purchaser of the
          subsidiary's assets.

          (C) DIVIDENDS FROM SUBSIDIARIES

              Dividends paid to Century by consolidated subsidiaries were
          $908,000, $12,030,000 and $28,612,000 during 1993, 1992 and 1991,
          respectively.

          (D) INCOME TAXES AND INTEREST PAID

              Income taxes paid by Century (including amounts reimbursed
          from subsidiaries) were $31,500,000, $26,500,000 and $16,000,000
          during 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

              Interest paid by Century was $20,870,000, $15,676,000 and
          $15,379,000 during 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

          (E) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

              Century adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
          No. 106 ("SFAS 106"), "Employer's Accounting for Postretirement
          Benefits Other than Pensions" and Statement of Financial
          Accounting Standards No. 109 ("SFAS 109"), "Accounting for Income
          Taxes", as of January 1, 1992.

          (F) SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

              Century issued common stock in connection with certain
          acquisitions during 1993, 1992 and 1991.  The value at time of
          issuance of such common stock was approximately $67,000,000,
          $21,475,000 and $5,355,000, respectively.  These amounts
          represent the non-cash portion of the purchase prices for the
          acquisitions and are not included on the Statement of Cash Flows.




                CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     SCHEDULE V - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                        For the year ended December 31, 1993






                CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     SCHEDULE V - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                     (continued)

                        For the year ended December 31, 1992


          (1) Includes $110,667,000 of assets at the date of acquisition of
              purchased subsidiaries, net of $5,064,000 of assets at the
              date of disposition of subsidiaries sold.

          For additional information see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated 
          Financial Statements included in Item 8 elsewhere herein.

                


                
                CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     SCHEDULE V - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                     (continued)

                        For the year ended December 31, 1991



          (1) Includes $2,032,000 of assets related to the Florida paging
              operations which were sold in 1991.

          For additional information see note 1 of Notes to
          Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 elsewhere
          herein.





                 CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

          SCHEDULE VI - ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION OF PROPERTY,
                        PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                        For the year ended December 31, 1993


          Depreciation and amortization charged to income -
            Depreciation, as above                                       $77,999
            Amortization of cost of investment in subsidiaries 
              in excess of net assets acquired                             7,512
            Amortization of extraordinary retirements                        664
                                                                          ______
                                                                         $86,175
                                                                          ======

          (1) Includes $16,771,000 of accumulated depreciation and 
              amortization at the date of acquisition of purchased 
              subsidiaries.

          (2) Includes $6,277,000 of accumulated depreciation related 
              to equipment removed from service to be refurbished and/or 
              held for future use.

          (3) Includes $1,447,000 of accumulated depreciation and 
              amortization at the date of acquisition of purchased 
              subsidiaries.






                CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

          SCHEDULE VI - ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION OF PROPERTY,
                        PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                     (continued)

                        For the year ended December 31, 1992



          Depreciation and amortization charged to income -
            Depreciation, as above                                     $64,340
            Amortization of cost of investment in subsidiaries 
              in excess of net assets acquired                           5,396
            Amortization of extraordinary retirements                    1,026
                                                                       _______
                                                                       $70,762
                                                                       =======


          (1) Includes $43,154,000 of accumulated depreciation and 
              amortization at the date of acquisition of purchased 
              subsidiaries, net of $1,855,000 of accumulated depreciation 
              and amortization at the date of disposition of subsidiaries 
              sold.





                CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

          SCHEDULE VI - ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION OF PROPERTY,
                        PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                                     (continued)

                        For the year ended December 31, 1991



          Depreciation and amortization charged to income -
            Depreciation, as above                                     $53,197
            Amortization of cost of investment in subsidiaries 
              in excess of net assets acquired                           3,173
            Amortization of extraordinary retirements                      936
                                                                       _______
                                                                       $57,306
                                                                       =======

          (1) Includes $1,300,000 of accumulated depreciation and 
              amortization related to the Florida paging operations 
              which were sold in 1991.





                CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                         SCHEDULE IX - SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

                For the years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991



          Note 1
          ______
            Notes payable to banks represent various promissory notes and 
            revolving credit notes.

          Note 2
          ______
            Notes payable to banks represent borrowings under promissory 
            notes and a money market revolving credit note.

          (a) Maximum amount outstanding at any month-end during the period.

          (b) Average amount outstanding during the period is computed by 
              dividing the total weighted daily balance outstanding by 360.

          (c) Average interest rate for the year is computed by dividing 
              short-term interest expense by the average short-term debt 
              outstanding.




                CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

               SCHEDULE X - SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION



                                               Year ended December 31,
          _________________________________________________________________
                                              1993       1992        1991
          _________________________________________________________________

                                               (expressed in thousands)


          Maintenance and repairs         $ 64,401     52,820      43,561
          =================================================================

          Taxes, other than payroll 
            and income taxes:
             Property taxes               $ 11,629      9,805       6,906
             Gross receipts taxes            4,570      4,473       3,326
             All other operating taxes       2,525      1,455       1,263
          _________________________________________________________________
          Taxes charged to costs and 
            expenses                      $ 18,724     15,733      11,495
          =================================================================
          Advertising costs               $  4,148      3,459       2,771
          =================================================================


          All other requirements of this schedule are either immaterial or
          disclosed in the consolidated financial statements or related
          notes.




                         CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.

                                  INDEX TO EXHIBITS

                                  December 31, 1993

          Exhibit
          Number
          _______

          3(i)     Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
                   Registrant, dated December 15, 1988 (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Annual Report
                   on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988), as
                   amended by the Articles of Amendment dated May 2, 1989
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
                   Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 5,
                   1989), by the Articles of Amendment dated May 17, 1990
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
                   Registrant's Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 on Form S-3
                   dated December 21, 1990, Registration No. 33-17114) and
                   by the Articles of Amendment dated May 30, 1991
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of
                   Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 12,
                   1991).

          3(ii)    Registrant's Bylaws, as amended through February 22,
                   1994, included herein.

          4.1      Loan Agreement, dated January 3, 1990, between
                   Registrant and National Bank of Detroit, First National
                   Bank of Commerce and Bank One, Texas, National
                   Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1989) and amendment thereto dated May
                   15, 1992 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1992) and the second amendment
                   thereto dated March 31,1993 (incorporated by reference
                   to Exhibit 19.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                   10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1993).

          4.2      Note Purchase Agreement, dated September 1, 1989,
                   between Registrant, Teachers Insurance and Annuity
                   Association of America and the Lincoln National Life
                   Insurance Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   4.23 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                   the quarter ended September 30, 1989).

          4.3      Agreement, dated November 27, 1977, among Registrant,
                   The Travelers Insurance Company and The Travelers
                   Indemnity Company, and form of Warrant (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibits 4 and 5 to Registrant's Annual
                   Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                   1977).

          4.10     Form of Indenture dated May 1, 1940 among Century
                   Telephone of Wisconsin, Inc. (formerly La Crosse
                   Telephone  Corporation) and the First National Bank of
                   Chicago and William K. Stevens (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 4.12 to Registration No. 2-48478).

          4.11     Supplemental Indenture No. 12 (incorporated by reference
                   to Exhibit 5.12 to Registration No. 2-62172) and
                   Supplemental Indentures 13 and 14 (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 5.11 to Registration No. 2-68731),
                   each of which are supplemental indentures to the Form of
                   Indenture dated May 1, 1940 listed above as Exhibit
                   4.10.

          4.12     Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of
                   November 17, 1986 between Century Telephone Enterprises,
                   Inc. and the Rights Agent named therein (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Current Report
                   on Form 8-K dated December 20, 1988), the Amendment
                   thereto dated March 26, 1990 (incorporated by reference
                   to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                   10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1990) and the
                   Second Amendment thereto dated February 23, 1993
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1992).

          4.16     Note Purchase Agreement, dated May 6, 1986, among
                   Registrant, Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association
                   of America, Aetna Life Insurance Company, the Aetna
                   Casualty and Surety Company and Lincoln National Pension
                   Insurance Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   4.23 to Registration No. 33-5836), Amendatory Agreement
                   dated November 1, 1986 (incorporated by reference to
                   Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                   for the year ended December 31, 1986), amendment thereto
                   dated November 1, 1987 (incorporated by reference to
                   Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                   for the year ended December 31, 1987) and Modification
                   Letter dated September 1, 1989 (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 19.6 to Registrant's Quarterly
                   Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                   1989).

          4.21     The Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Stock Bonus
                   Plan, PAYSOP and Trust, as amended and restated
                   September 10, 1987 and amendment thereto dated February
                   29, 1988 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.21 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1987), amendments thereto dated March
                   21, 1991 and April 15, 1991, (incorporated by reference
                   to Exhibit 4.21 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                   10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991), amendment
                   thereto dated March 31, 1992 (incorporated by reference
                   to Exhibit 4.21 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                   10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992) and
                   amendments thereto dated June 1, 1993 and June 10, 1993,
                   included herein.

           4.22    Form of common stock certificate of the Registrant
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
                   Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                   quarter ended June 30, 1993).

          4.23     Indenture, dated February 1, 1992, between Registrant
                   and First American Bank and Trust of Louisiana
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.23 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1991).

          4.24     Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated February 7,
                   1992 between Registrant and NationsBank of Texas, N.A.
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.24 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1991), amendment thereto dated April
                   8, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.2 to
                   Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                   quarter ended March 31, 1993) and amendment thereto
                   dated July 9, 1993, included herein.

          4.25     Credit Agreement, dated February 9, 1994 between
                   Registrant, NationsBank of Texas, N.A., Bank One, Texas,
                   N.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia, First National Bank of
                   Commerce and Texas Commerce Bank National Association,
                   included herein.

          10.1     Employment Agreement, dated May 24, 1993, by and between
                   Clarke M. Williams and Registrant (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 19.1 to Registrant's Quarterly
                   Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                   1993).

          10.2     Form of employment agreement that the registrant has
                   entered into with each Executive Officer other than Mr.
                   Williams (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1990).

          10.3     Registrant's Outside Directors' Retirement Plan, dated
                   November 19, 1984 (incorporated by reference to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1985), amendment thereto dated
                   February 21, 1989 (incorporated by reference to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1988) and amendment thereto dated May
                   17, 1991 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1991).

          10.4     Registrant's Amended and Restated Supplemental Executive
                   Retirement Plan, as amended and restated May 17, 1991
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1991) and amendment thereto dated
                   February 24, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   10.4 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                   year ended December 31, 1992).

          10.5     Registrant's 1983 Restricted Stock Plan, dated February
                   21, 1984 (incorporated by reference to Registrant's
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
                   31, 1985).

          10.6     Registrant's Key Employee Incentive Compensation Plan,
                   dated January 1, 1984 (incorporated by reference to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1985).

          10.7     The Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Dollars & Sense
                   Plan and Trust, as amended and restated April 1, 1992
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1992) and amendments thereto dated as
                   of January 1, 1993, April 1, 1993, April 9, 1993 and
                   July 1, 1993, included herein.

          10.8     Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Employee Stock
                   Ownership Plan and Trust, dated March 20, 1987
                   (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report
                   on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986),
                   amendment thereto dated February 29, 1988 (incorporated
                   by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Registrant's Annual
                   Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                   1987), amendments thereto dated March 21, 1991 and April
                   15, 1991 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1991), amendments thereto dated March
                   31, 1992 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1992) and amendments thereto dated
                   June 1, 1993 and June 10, 1993, included herein.

          10.9     Registrant's 1988 Incentive Compensation Program as
                   amended and restated August 22, 1989 (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 19.8 to Registrant's Quarterly
                   Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                   1989).

          10.10    Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in 1988 by
                   the Registrant, pursuant to 1988 Incentive Compensation
                   Program, with certain of its officers (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Registrant's Annual Report
                   on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988) and
                   amendment thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   4.6 to Registrant's Registration No. 33-31314).

          10.11    Registrant's 1990 Incentive Compensation Program, dated
                   March 15, 1990 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   19.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                   the  quarter ended June 30, 1990).

          10.12    Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in 1990 by
                   the Registrant, pursuant to 1990 Incentive Compensation
                   Program, with certain of its officers (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 19.3 to Registrant's Quarterly
                   Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                   1990).

          10.13    Disability Retirement Agreement, dated July 17, 1990,
                   between Clarke M. Williams, Jr. and Century Telephone
                   Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   19.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                   the quarter ended June 30, 1990).

          10.15    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 24,
                   1992, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, by and
                   among Registrant, San Marcos Telephone Company,
                   Incorporated, SM Telecorp, Inc., SMTC Acquisition Corp.
                   and SMT Acquisition Corp. (incorporated by reference to
                   Exhibit 2 of Registrant's Registration on Form S-4 dated
                   February 3, 1993, Registration No. 33-57838).

          10.16    Registrant's Amended and Restated Salary Continuation
                   (Disability) Plan for Officers, dated November 26, 1991
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1991).

          10.17    Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in 1992 by
                   the Registrant, pursuant to 1990 Incentive Compensation
                   Program, with certain of its officers and employees
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1992).

          10.18    Form of Performance Share Agreement Under the 1990
                   Incentive Compensation Program, entered into in 1993
                   with certain of its officers and employees (incorporated
                   by reference to Exhibit 28.1 to Registrant's Quarterly
                   Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                   1993).

          10.19    Form of Restricted Stock Agreement and Performance Share
                   Agreement Under the 1988 Incentive Compensation Program,
                   entered into in 1993 with certain of its officers and
                   employees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 28.2 to
                   Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                   quarter ended March 31, 1993).

          10.20    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 8, 1993, as
                   amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated January 5, 1994
                   by and among Registrant, Celutel Acquisition Corp.,
                   Celutel, Inc. and the Principal Stockholders of Celutel,
                   Inc. (incorporated by reference to Appendix I of
                   Registrant's Prospectus forming a part of its
                   Registration Statement No. 33-50791 filed January 12,
                   1994 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5)).

          11       Computations of Earnings Per Share, included herein.

          21       Subsidiaries of the Registrant, included herein.

          23       Independent Auditors' Consent, included herein.

                 

