
10-K
FORM 10-K FYE 12/31/94


                                  UNITED STATES
                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C.  20549

                                    FORM 10-K

            [ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

                                        or

         [    ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file number 1-7784

                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.

          A Louisiana Corporation                I.R.S. Employer Identification
                                                         No. 72-0651161


                 100 Century Park Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203

                         Telephone number (318) 388-9500

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Common Stock,
    par value $1.00

    Exchange on which registered:  New York Stock Exchange

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
    required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                                                               Yes [X]  No [   ]

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
    Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
    contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
    Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]

    As of February 28, 1995, the aggregate market value of voting stock held
    by non-affiliates (affiliates being for these purposes only directors
    and executive officers) was approximately $1.8 billion.

    As of February 28, 1995, there were 58,204,027 shares of common stock
    outstanding.

                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

    Portions of the Proxy Statement prepared in connection with the 1995
    annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated in Part III of this
    Report.







                                      PART I



    Item 1.  Business



       General.  Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. ("Century") is a regional

    diversified telecommunications company that is primarily engaged in

    providing traditional telephone services and cellular telephone

    communications services.  For the year ended December 31, 1994, telephone

    operations and mobile communications operations (substantially all of

    which are comprised of the Company's cellular telephone operations)

    provided 72% and 28%, respectively, of the consolidated revenues of

    Century and its subsidiaries (the "Company").  All of the Company's

    operations are conducted within the continental United States.



       At December 31, 1994 the Company's telephone subsidiaries operated over

    454,000 telephone access lines, primarily in rural, suburban and small

    urban areas in 14 states, with the largest customer bases located in

    Wisconsin, Louisiana, Michigan and Ohio.  According to published sources,

    the Company is the fifteenth largest local exchange telephone company in

    the United States based on the number of access lines served.



       Whenever used herein with respect to the Company, the term "pops" means

    the population of licensed cellular telephone markets (based on

    independent third-party population estimates) multiplied by the Company's

    proportionate equity interests in the licensed operators thereof.  The

    term "MSA" means a Metropolitan Statistical Area for which the Federal

    Communications Commission (the "FCC") has granted a cellular operating

    license.  The term "RSA" means a Rural Service Area for which the FCC has

    granted a cellular operating license.  The term "wireline license" refers

    to the cellular operating license initially reserved by the FCC for

    companies providing local telephone service in the licensed market and the

    term "non-wireline license" refers to the license initially reserved for

    licensees unaffiliated with such local telephone companies.



       At December 31, 1994 the Company, through its cellular operations,

    owned approximately 7.1 million pops (which includes approximately 300,000

    pops the Company either sold during the first quarter of 1995 or which are

    subject to sale pursuant to definitive agreements) in 28 MSAs, primarily

    concentrated in Michigan, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas, and 31 RSAs,

    most of which are in Michigan, Louisiana and Arkansas.  The Company is the

    majority owner and operator in 19 of the MSAs and 12 of the RSAs, which

    collectively represent 5.5 million pops, and has minority interests in the

    other MSAs and RSAs, which collectively represent 1.6 million pops.  Of

    the Company's 7.1 million pops, approximately 76% are attributable to the

    Company's MSA interests, with the balance attributable to its RSA

    interests.  According to data derived from published sources, at December

    31, 1994 the Company was the seventeenth largest cellular telephone

    company in the United States based on the Company's owned pops.  At

    December 31, 1994, the Company's majority-owned and operated cellular

    systems had more than 211,000 cellular subscribers.  Except for five MSAs,

    all of the cellular systems operated by the Company are operated under

    wireline licenses.



       Recent Acquisitions and Dispositions.  In February 1994 the Company

    acquired Celutel, Inc. ("Celutel"), which currently provides cellular

    mobile telephone services to approximately 35,000 customers in three MSA

    non-wireline cellular markets in Mississippi and two MSA non-wireline

    cellular markets in Texas which have a combined population of 1.5 million.

    Celutel's share of these pops is approximately 1.2 million.  In March 1994

    Century acquired a local exchange telephone company in Michigan which

    currently serves approximately 2,600 telephone access lines and which owns

    a 13% interest in a cellular partnership which has been operated by the

    Company for several years.  In November 1994 the Company exchanged its

    Minnesota RSA 6 non-wireline cellular system for a 100% interest in the

    Pine Bluff, Arkansas MSA wireline cellular system plus $10.5 million cash.

    The Pine Bluff MSA has a population of approximately 85,000.  In January

    1995 Century acquired Tele-Max, Inc. and its affiliates.  In connection

    with this acquisition, Century acquired approximately 5,300 telephone

    access lines in a suburban community north of Dallas, Texas and a one-half

    of one percent interest in the Dallas MSA wireline cellular system (which

    represents approximately 20,000 pops).  In connection with its exercise of

    first refusal purchase rights during 1994, the Company increased its

    ownership in markets in which it already holds interests by approximately

    35,000 pops.



       In accordance with its strategy of clustering its telephone and

    cellular businesses, Century sold its paging operations in October 1994.

    In addition, during late 1994 the Company entered into definitive

    agreements to sell its ownership interests in several RSAs located

    primarily in western states and two MSAs located in the midwest, which in

    the aggregate represent approximately 300,000 pops.  Certain of these

    transactions were consumated during the first quarter of 1995.



       The Company is continually evaluating the possibility of acquiring

    additional telephone access lines and cellular interests in exchange for

    cash, securities or both.  Although the Company's primary focus will

    continue to be on acquiring telephone and cellular interests that are

    proximate to its properties or that serve a customer base large enough for

    the Company to operate efficiently, other communications interests may

    also be acquired.



       Other.  The Company also provides long distance, operator and

    interactive services in certain local and regional markets, as well as

    certain printing and related services, and has recently entered the

    competitive access business.  During 1994 the Company's newly-formed

    competitive access subsidiary obtained franchises and rights-of-way to

    build a fiber optic network which will allow the Company to offer voice,

    data and certain video services in Fort Worth and Arlington, Texas, along

    with a portion of downtown Dallas.  Century expects to begin offering

    these services in the second quarter of 1995.  The Company's competitive

    access subsidiary has also obtained a franchise to provide similar

    services in Austin, Texas and is currently attempting to obtain rights-of-

    way in this market.  The results of all of these other operations are

    recorded for financial reporting purposes in "Other income and expense".




       As of December 31, 1994, the Company employed approximately 3,000

    persons, of which approximately 200 employees located in Ohio are covered

    by a three-year collective bargaining agreement between the Company and

    the Communications Workers of America.  The agreement lapses on March 30,

    1997.



       Century was incorporated under Louisiana law in 1968 to serve as a

    holding company for several telephone companies acquired over the previous

    15 to 20 years.  Century's principal executive offices are located at 100

    Century Park Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203 and its telephone number is

    (318) 388-9500.



                               TELEPHONE OPERATIONS



       The Company is the fifteenth largest local exchange telephone company

    in the United States, based on the more than 454,000 access lines it

    served at December 31, 1994.  Currently, the Company operates over 500

    central office and remote switching centers in its telephone operating

    areas.  Over the past decade, Century has installed digital switching

    platforms throughout much of its switching network.  At December 31, 1994,

    95% of Century's total access lines were digitally switched.  Through its

    operating telephone subsidiaries, Century provides services to

    predominately rural, suburban and small urban markets in 14 states.  The

    table below sets forth certain information with respect to Century's

    access lines as of December 31, 1994:




          As indicated in the following table, Century has experienced growth

    in its telephone operations over the past several years, a substantial

    portion of which was attributable to acquisitions of other telephone

    companies and to the expansion of services:

                                      Year Ended or As of December 31,
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   1994       1993        1992       1991
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          (Dollars in thousands)

    Access lines                 454,963     434,691     397,300    314,819

       % Residential                  79%         80          81         81

       % Business                     21%         20          19         19

    Operating revenues         $ 389,438     348,485     297,510    235,796

    Capital expenditures       $ 152,336     131,180     108,974     73,913



       Future growth in telephone operations is expected to be derived from

    (i) acquiring additional telephone companies, (ii) providing service to

    new customers, (iii) upgrading existing customers to higher grades of

    service, (iv) increasing network usage and (v) providing additional

    services made possible by advances in technology and changes in

    regulation.  For information on developing competitive trends, see "-

    Regulation and Competition."



    Services



       The Company's telephone subsidiaries derive revenue from providing (i)

    local telephone services, (ii) network access and long distance services

    and (iii) other related services.  The following table reflects the

    percentage of telephone operating revenues derived from these respective

    services:


       Local service revenues are generated by the provision of local exchange

    telephone services in the Company's franchised service areas.





       Network access and long distance revenues primarily relate to services

    provided by the Company to interexchange carriers (long distance carriers)

    in connection with the use of the Company's facilities to originate and

    complete interstate and intrastate long distance telephone calls.

    Substantially all of the Company's interstate network access revenues are

    derived through pooling arrangements administered by the National Exchange

    Carrier Association ("NECA").  NECA receives access charges billed by the

    Company and other participating local exchange carriers ("LECs") to

    interstate long distance carriers and other LEC customers for use of the

    participating LECs' local exchange networks to complete long distance

    calls and subsequently distributes these revenues to such LECs based on

    cost separation studies or average schedule settlement agreements.  The

    charges billed to the long distance carriers and other LEC customers are

    based on tariffed access rates filed with the FCC by NECA on behalf of the

    Company and other participating LECs.  Interstate revenues as a percentage

    of telephone operating revenues amounted to 33.7%, 32.1% and 31.4% in

    1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.



       Certain of the Company's intrastate network access revenues are derived

    through access charges billed by the Company directly to intrastate long

    distance carriers and other LEC customers.  Such intrastate network access

    charges are based on access tariffs which are subject to state regulatory

    commission approval.  Additionally, certain of the Company's intrastate

    network access revenues, along with intrastate long distance revenues, are

    derived through state pooling arrangements and are determined based on

    cost separation studies or special settlement arrangements.



       The installation of digital switches and related software continues to

    be an important component of the Company's growth strategy because it

    allows the Company to offer new services (such as call forwarding,

    conference calling, caller identification, selective call ringing and call

    waiting) and to thereby increase utilization of existing access lines.  In

    1994 the Company continued to expand its list of premium services offered

    in certain service areas and aggressively marketed these services.  In

    addition, with digital switching the Company has been able to construct

    centralized electronic monitoring facilities that allow employees to

    detect operating malfunctions in digital switches and, in many cases, to

    correct the malfunctions without a site visit by the Company's personnel,

    thereby reducing maintenance costs.



       The Company is installing fiber optic cable in certain areas in which

    it operates and has provided alternative routing of telephone service over

    fiber optic cable networks in several of its strategic operating areas.

    At December 31, 1994, the Company had approximately 1,360 miles of fiber

    optic cable in place.



       Other revenues include revenues related to (i) leasing, selling,

    installing, maintaining and repairing customer premise telecommunications

    equipment and wiring, (ii) providing billing and collection services for

    interexchange carriers, (iii) leasing network facilities and (iv)

    participating in the publication of local directories.  Certain large

    telecommunications companies for which the Company currently provides

    billing and



    collection services have indicated their desire to reduce

    their billing and collection expenses, which may lead to reduced future

    billing and collection revenues.



       For further information on the regulation of the Company's revenues,

    see "-Regulation and Competition."



    Federal Financing Programs



           Certain of the Company's telephone subsidiaries receive long-term

    financing from the Rural Utilities Service ("RUS") (formerly the Rural

    Electrification Administration or REA), the Rural Telephone Bank ("RTB")

    and the Federal Financing Bank ("FFB").  The RUS has made long-term loans

    to telephone companies since 1949 for the purpose of improving telephone

    service in rural areas.  The RUS continues to make new loans at interest

    rates that range from 5% to 7% based on borrower qualifications and the

    cost of money to the United States government.  The RTB, established in

    1971, makes long-term loans at interest rates based on its average cost of

    funds as determined by statutory formula (such rates ranged from 6.05% to

    6.35% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1994), and in some cases

    makes loans concurrently with RUS loans.  In addition, the RUS guarantees

    certain loans made to telephone companies by the FFB or other qualified

    lenders.  A significant portion of the Company's telephone plant is

    pledged or mortgaged to secure obligations of the Company's telephone

    subsidiaries to the RUS, RTB and FFB.  The amount of common stock

    dividends that may be paid by the Company's telephone subsidiaries is

    limited by certain financial requirements set forth in the financing

    agreements.



       Certain of the Company's telephone subsidiaries have made applications

    for additional loans from the RUS and intend to make further applications

    as needs arise.  There is no assurance that these applications will be

    accepted or that the terms or interest rates of any future loan

    commitments will remain favorable.  Federal budget proposals which could

    significantly reduce or eliminate the availability of new loan commitments

    under the RUS and RTB programs were considered in recent years and are

    expected to continue to be considered.  If the Company's telephone

    subsidiaries are unable to borrow additional funds through the RUS and RTB

    programs and are forced to borrow from conventional lenders at market

    rates, the Company's cost of new loans might increase.



       For additional information regarding the Company's financing, see the

    Company's consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 herein.



    Regulation and Competition



       Traditionally, LECs have operated as regulated monopolies.

    Consequently, the majority of the Company's telephone operations are

    regulated extensively by various state regulatory agencies (generally

    called public



    service commissions or public utility commissions) and by the FCC.  As

    discussed in greater detail below, various aspects of federal and state

    regulation have recently been subject to extensive modification and re-

    examination, which has generally relaxed the regulation of LECs.  As

    further discussed below, several legislative and regulatory initiatives

    and technological changes have allowed competition in traditionally

    monopolistic segments of the industry.  Although Century anticipates that

    these trends towards relaxed regulation and increased competition will

    continue, the form and degree of future regulation and competition is

    unknown.



       State Regulation.  The local service rates and intrastate access

    charges of substantially all of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are

    regulated by state regulatory commissions that traditionally have

    regulated pricing through "rate of return" regulation that focuses on

    authorized levels of earnings by LECs.  Most of these commissions also (i)

    regulate the purchase and sale of LECs, (ii) prescribe depreciation rates

    and certain accounting procedures and (iii) regulate various other

    matters, including certain service standards and operating procedures.  In

    certain states, construction and/or financing plans are also subject to

    regulatory approval.



       In recent years, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Louisiana and other state

    legislatures and regulatory commissions have either begun to relax the

    regulation of LECs or have announced their intention to review such

    regulation, and it is expected that this trend will continue.  This

    relaxed regulatory oversight of certain of the Company's telephone

    operations may allow the Company to offer new and competitive services

    faster than under the traditional regulatory process.  Coincident with

    these efforts is the introduction of competition into traditionally

    monopolistic segments of the industry.  For a discussion of legislative,

    regulatory and technological changes that have introduced competition into

    the local exchange industry, see "-Developments Affecting Competition."



       Substantially all of the state regulatory commissions have statutory

    authority, the specific limits of which vary, to initiate and conduct

    earnings reviews of the LECs that they regulate.  As part of the movement

    towards deregulation, several states are moving away from traditional rate

    of return regulation towards price cap regulation and incentive regulation

    (which are similar to the FCC regulations discussed below), and are

    actively encouraging larger LECs to adopt these newer forms of price

    regulation.  The continuation of this trend may lead to fewer earnings

    reviews in the future.  Currently, however, most of the Company's LECs

    continue to be regulated under rate of return regulation.  After

    initiating an informal earnings review during 1993 of all independent LECs

    in Louisiana, the Louisiana Public Service Commission ("LPSC") recently

    docketed a formal earnings review of such carriers.  In addition, the

    Public Service Commission of Wisconsin ("PSCW") is examining transactions

    in which Century and its service subsidiaries provided various services

    and materials to the Company's Wisconsin LECs.  There is no assurance that

    these reviews (or any other future review in these or other states) will

    not lead to future revenue reductions or customer refunds.  Moreover, in

    light of the movement away from traditional rate of return regulation, no

    assurance can be given that the Company's LECs will continue to earn the

    same rate of return that they achieved in recent years.



       FCC Regulation.  The FCC regulates the interstate services provided by

    the Company's telephone subsidiaries primarily by regulating the

    interstate access charges that are billed to interexchange carriers and

    other LEC customers by the Company for use of its local network in

    connection with the origination and termination of interstate telephone

    calls.  Additionally, the FCC has prescribed certain rules and regulations

    for telephone companies, including regulations regarding the use of radio

    frequencies; a uniform system of accounts; and rules regarding the

    separation of costs between jurisdictions and, ultimately, between

    services.



       Effective January 1, 1991 the FCC adopted price-cap regulation relating

    to interstate access rates for the Regional Bell Operating Companies

    ("RBOCs") and GTE.  An annual opportunity to elect price-cap regulation is

    available for other LECs.  Under price-cap regulation, limits imposed on a

    company's interstate rates will be adjusted periodically to reflect

    inflation, productivity improvement and changes in certain non-

    controllable costs.  In May 1993 the FCC adopted an optional incentive

    regulatory plan for LECs not subject to price-cap regulation.  A LEC

    electing the optional incentive regulatory plan would, among other things,

    file tariffs based primarily on historical costs and not be allowed to

    participate in the relevant NECA pooling arrangements.  The Company has

    not elected price-cap regulation or the incentive regulatory plan, but

    will continue to evaluate its options on a periodic basis.  Consequently,

    the Company's telephone subsidiaries' authorized interstate access rate of

    return is 11.25%, which is the authorized rate established by the FCC for

    LECs not governed by price-cap regulation or the optional incentive

    regulatory plan.



       High-Cost Support Funds, Revenue Pools and Related Matters.  A

    significant number of the Company's telephone subsidiaries recover a

    portion of their costs under federal and state cost recovery mechanisms

    that traditionally have allowed LECs serving small communities and rural

    areas to provide access to telecommunications services reasonably

    comparable to those available in urban areas and at reasonably comparable

    prices.



       The FCC and certain state regulatory commissions have recently explored

    or implemented initiatives to reduce, or at least review, the funding of

    certain of these cost recovery mechanisms.  In 1993 the eight-year phase-

    in of the FCC's Universal Service Fund ("USF") was completed.  In December

    1993 the FCC adopted interim provisions which place certain limitations,

    including a cap, on the USF growth rate during 1994 and 1995.  The Company

    anticipates that revenues from the USF under these interim provisions will

    continue to increase in the near term, but at a lesser percentage rate

    than that associated with recent prior periods.  Since adopting these

    interim measures, the FCC has instituted proceedings to study the

    effectiveness of its high-cost assistance programs.  In addition, certain

    bills recently considered by Congress (which are further discussed below)

    have sought review of federal high-cost assistance programs.  Accordingly,

    there is no assurance that cost recovery through these programs will

    remain at current levels.



       Some of the Company's telephone subsidiaries operate in states where

    traditional cost recovery mechanisms, including rate structures, are under

    evaluation or have been modified.  There can be no assurance that these

    states will continue to provide for cost recovery at current levels.



       As the customer bases of the Company's LECs grow, the revenues

    determined under the FCC's cost separation studies may decrease as a

    result of such growth.  Under a graduated scale used in such studies, LECs

    serving between 50,000 and 20,000 customers, between 20,000 and 10,000

    customers, and less than 10,000 customers receive increasingly higher

    weightings which result in higher interstate access revenues.



       Most of the Company's LECs concur with the common line and traffic

    sensitive tariffs filed by NECA and participate in the access revenue

    pools administered by NECA for interstate services.  All of the long

    distance and intrastate network access revenues of the Company's LECs are

    based on access charges, cost separation studies or special settlement

    arrangements.  See "-Services."



       Certain long distance carriers continue to request that certain of the

    Company's LECs reduce intrastate access tariffed rates.  In March 1994 a

    major long distance carrier filed a petition with the LPSC requesting that

    the LPSC investigate and lower the rates for intrastate access charges

    billed to long distance carriers by certain LECs, including the Company's

    LECs that operate in Louisiana.  There is no assurance that these requests

    will not result in decreased intrastate access revenues.



       Developments Affecting Competition.  The communications industry is

    currently undergoing fundamental changes which may have a significant

    impact on the future operations and financial performance of

    telecommunications companies.  Primarily as a result of legislative and

    regulatory initiatives and technological changes, competition has been

    introduced and encouraged in certain sectors of the telephone industry,

    including interstate and intrastate toll, special and switched access

    services, pay phones, customer premise equipment and, most recently, local

    service.  As a result, the number of companies offering competitive

    services has increased.  As discussed below, far-reaching federal

    legislation is currently being considered which could pre-empt current

    initiatives of the FCC, state legislatures and state regulatory

    commissions to promote competition, all of which are likely to continue if

    federal legislation is delayed or defeated.



       In 1994 the United States House of Representatives passed two

    telecommunications bills that proposed to substantially alter the

    regulatory framework of the telecommunications industry by, among other

    things, promoting local exchange competition and removing certain barriers

    of entry to several lines of telecommunications businesses.  No companion

    bill passed in the United States Senate.  Legislation is expected to be

    considered in 1995 that may promote competition and deregulation to a

    greater degree than the bills that passed the House in 1994.  Draft bills

    currently pending before the Senate would, among other things, (i)

    obligate LECs, upon request, to negotiate interconnection agreements

    permitting competitors to use the LECs' facilities, (ii) authorize a joint

    board to study and make recommendations regarding federal universal
                     
    service


    systems, (iii) mandate states to remove all regulations that

    prohibit any entity from providing telecommunications services and to

    eliminate any rate-of-return regulations relating to common carriers in

    markets where the FCC determines that local networks are open and

    competitive, (iv) permit common carriers to provide video programming in

    their existing markets, and (v) remove, under certain circumstances,

    restrictions that prevent the RBOCs from providing long distance and other

    services.  There is no assurance that any such bills will be enacted, or

    that the terms of any legislation ultimately enacted will not differ

    materially from those outlined above.  While it is currently impossible to

    assess the ultimate effect of these and related initiatives, there can be

    no assurance that they will not materially affect the Company's

    operations.



       Certain states have taken legislative and/or regulatory steps to

    introduce competition into the local exchange business.  Since January 1,

    1995, customers in one upstate New York market have been permitted to

    choose their local telephone service provider pursuant to a plan approved

    in late 1994 by the New York Public Service Commission.  Cable companies

    are also providing, or preparing to provide, telephone service in a

    limited number of other markets under plans approved by state regulators.

    In 1994 Wisconsin, a state in which the Company operates, enacted

    legislation which, among other things, requires the PSCW to authorize

    cable television operators to provide local exchange service in larger

    markets, including one of the Company's markets.  Although no cable

    television operator has requested authorization to provide local exchange

    service in the Company's market, the Company anticipates that such a

    request will be forthcoming.  The Company anticipates that an increasing

    number of states will, to some degree, allow local service competition

    with LECs.  Largely as a result of these trends towards liberalized

    regulation, several well-established interexchange carriers and cable

    television companies have accelerated their development of networks and

    facilities designed to provide local exchange services, principally in

    larger cities.



       In 1992 the FCC took a step toward introducing competition in the local

    exchange access business by ordering that competitive access providers,

    interexchange carriers and others have the right to directly interconnect

    facilities to the central offices of certain larger (Tier One) telephone

    companies (which do not include the Company's LECs) for the provision of

    interstate special transport access services.  Although this 1992 order

    was overturned by a federal appellate court in mid-1994, the FCC has

    requested Tier One LECs to file tariffs for a less intrusive form of co-

    location.  Effective February 1994, the FCC ordered Tier One LECs to allow

    competing carriers to interconnect to their local exchange networks for

    the purpose of providing switched access transport services.  The intent

    of these orders and other related FCC decisions is to allow interstate

    access competition with LECs and provide LECs with limited pricing

    flexibility to enable LECs to better respond to the resulting competition.

    Principally as a result of these and other regulatory actions, competition

    from competitive access providers and others has increased and is expected

    to continue to increase.  Competitive access providers, which originally

    were formed in the 1980's to provide redundancy services, now provide

    access competition with LECs in most larger urban areas, principally by

    targeting large business customers.  One competitive access provider has

    been granted co-carrier status to provide local telephone service in New

    York City, and similar requests are expected to be made in other states.

    Although there has


    been activity by competitive access providers in certain of the
 
    Company's operating areas, such activity has thus far not

    significantly affected the Company.  The Company expects to increasingly

    face competition from competitive access providers in its operating areas

    located near larger urban areas and may face similar competition in its

    other operating areas.



       In addition to receiving services directly from competitive access

    providers, interexchange carriers and other users of toll service may seek

    other means to bypass LECs' switching services and local distribution

    facilities, particularly if services are not strategically priced.  There

    are several ways which users of toll service may bypass the Company's

    switching services.  First, users may construct, modify or lease

    facilities to transmit their traffic directly to an interexchange carrier.

    Cable television companies, in particular, may be able to modify their

    networks to partially or completely bypass the Company's local network.

    Second, certain interexchange carriers provide services which allow users

    to divert their traffic from LECs' usage-sensitive services to their flat-

    rate services.  Third, users may choose to use mobile communications

    services to bypass LECs' switching services.  Within the past two years,

    each of the three largest interexchange carriers in the United States has

    acquired or sought to acquire interests in mobile communications

    companies, presumably in part to obtain bypass capabilities.  Although

    certain of the Company's telephone subsidiaries have experienced a loss of

    traffic to such bypass, the impact of such loss on revenues has not been

    significant.  The Company and the LEC industry are seeking to address

    bypass principally by adopting flexible pricing of access services where

    appropriate and to the extent permitted by regulatory agencies.  No

    assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome of these efforts.



       Currently, cellular communications services complement traditional LEC

    services.  However, as the mobile communications industry matures, the

    Company anticipates that existing and emerging mobile communications

    technologies will increasingly compete with traditional LEC services.

    Technological and regulatory developments in cellular telephone, personal

    communications services, digital microwave, coaxial cable, fiber optics and

    other wired and wireless technologies are expected to further permit the

    development of alternatives to traditional landline services.  For further

    information on certain of these developments, see "Mobile Communications

    Operations - Regulation and Competition."



       In connection with the well-publicized convergence of

    telecommunications, cable, video, computer and entertainment businesses,

    several large companies have announced plans to offer products that would

    significantly enhance current communications and data transmission services

    and, in some instances, introduce new two-way video, entertainment, data,

    consumer and other multimedia services.  In particular, several large cable

    television companies have announced plans that, if successfully

    implemented, could provide significant competition with LECs' traditional

    services.  Other companies with wireline experience (including electric

    utilities) are expected to explore opportunities in this market, along with

    wireless companies and other emerging technology companies.  Although the

    development of new multimedia services is expected to initially have a

    greater effect on larger urban areas, no assurance can be given as to how

    the offering of these products or



    services by others will affect the Company.  For information on the

    effects of these developments on the Company's cellular operations,

    see "Mobile Communications Operations - Regulation and Competition."



       To the extent that the telephone industry is increasingly opened to

    competition by federal or state initiatives, the size and resources of each

    respective competitor may increasingly influence its prospects.  Many

    companies currently providing or planning to provide competitive

    telecommunication services have greater assets and resources than the

    Company, and several are not subject to the same regulatory constraints as

    the Company.  Moreover, several of these companies have formed joint

    ventures or alliances to better prepare themselves for competition.



       The Company anticipates that the traditional operations of LECs will be

    increasingly impacted by continued technological developments as well as

    legislative and regulatory initiatives affecting the ability of LECs to

    provide new services and the capability of cable television companies,

    interexchange carriers, competitive access providers and others to provide

    competitive LEC services.  The Company intends to actively monitor these

    developments, to observe the effect of emerging competitive trends in

    initial test markets (which are expected to be large urban areas) and to

    continue to evaluate new business opportunities that may arise out of

    future technological, legislative and regulatory developments.  Although

    competition relating to services traditionally provided solely by LECs is

    expected to initially affect large urban areas to a greater extent than

    rural, suburban and small urban areas such as those in which the Company

    operates, there is no assurance that these developments will not have an

    adverse effect on the Company in the future.



                         MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS



       According to data derived from published sources, at December 31, 1994

    the Company was the seventeenth largest cellular telephone company in the

    United States based on the Company's owned pops.  The number of pops owned

    by a cellular operator does not represent the number of users of cellular

    service and is not necessarily indicative of the number of potential

    subscribers.  Rather, this term is frequently used as a basis for

    comparing the size of cellular system operators.  At December 31, 1994,

    the Company owned approximately 7.1 million pops (which includes

    approximately 300,000 pops the Company either sold during the first

    quarter of 1995 or which are subject to sale pursuant to definitive

    agreements), of which approximately 5.4 million (76%) were applicable to

    MSAs and approximately 1.7 million (24%) were RSA pops.



    Cellular Industry



       The cellular telephone industry has been in existence for just over ten

    years in the United States.  Although the industry is relatively new, it

    has grown significantly during this period.  According to the Cellular

    Telecommunications Industry Association, in February 1995 there were

    estimated to be over 25 million cellular

           

    customers across the United States.  Cellular service is now available

    in substantially all areas of the United States.



       Cellular mobile telephone technology was developed in response to

    certain limitations of conventional mobile telephone systems.  Compared to

    such conventional systems, cellular mobile telephone service is capable of

    high-quality, high-capacity communications to and from vehicle-mounted and

    hand-held radio telephones.  While conventional mobile systems limit the

    number of people who can utilize the service simultaneously, cellular

    systems, if properly designed and equipped, are capable of handling

    thousands of calls at any given time and are capable of providing service

    to tens of thousands of subscribers in a market.



       In a cellular telephone system, the licensed service area is subdivided

    into geographic areas, or cells.  Each cell has its own transmitter and

    receiver that communicates by radio signal with cellular telephones located

    within the cell.  Each cell is connected by a telephone circuit or

    microwave to a Mobile Switching Center ("MSC"), which in turn is connected

    to the worldwide telephone network.



       Communications within a cellular system are controlled by the MSC

    through a transfer process as a cellular telephone user moves from one cell

    to another.  In this process, when the signal strength of a call declines

    to a predetermined level, the MSC determines if the signal strength from an

    adjacent cell is greater and, if so, transfers the call to the adjacent

    cell.  Software which facilitates the transfer between adjacent cells of

    different cellular systems using equipment of different manufacturers has

    been implemented by the Company in certain markets.



       Cellular telephone systems have higher subscriber capacity than

    conventional mobile telephone systems because of the substantial frequency

    spectrum allocated to these systems by the FCC and because frequencies can

    be reused throughout the system.  Frequency reuse is possible because the

    transmission power of cell site equipment and mobile units is relatively

    low.  Therefore, signals on the same channel will not interfere with each

    other if they are transmitted in cells that are sufficiently far apart.

    Reuse multiplies the capacity of channels available to the system operator

    and thereby increases the telephone calling capacity.



       Until recently, substantially all radio transmissions of cellular

    systems were conducted on an analog basis.  Technological developments

    involving the application of digital radio technology may offer certain

    advantages over analog technologies, including expanding the capacity of

    mobile communications systems, improving voice clarity, permitting the

    introduction of new services, and otherwise making such systems more

    efficient, more accessible, more private and eventually less expensive.

    Providers of certain services competitive with cellular are currently

    incorporating digital technology into their operations, and are expected to

    continue to do so in the future.  See "-Regulation and Competition-

    Developments Affecting Mobile Communications Competition."



       In recent years certain cellular carriers have begun to install digital

    cellular voice transmission facilities in certain larger markets.  During

    1993 and 1994 the Company upgraded certain portions of its cellular systems

    to be capable of providing digital service in the future; the Company

    currently plans to implement digital service in certain markets during 1995

    using the TDMA digital standard.  The Company will continue to monitor the

    development and implementation of this technology to determine when it will

    become beneficial for the Company to install digital voice transmission

    facilities in other markets.  See "-Regulation and Competition-Developments

    Affecting Mobile Communications Competition."



    Strategy



       The Company's business development strategy for its cellular telephone

    operations is to secure operating control of service areas that are

    geographically clustered.  Clustered cellular systems aid the Company's

    marketing efforts and provide various operating and service advantages.

    Approximately 53% of the Company's pops in markets operated by the Company

    are in a single, contiguous cluster of eight MSAs and six RSAs in Michigan;

    another 21% are in a cluster of five MSAs and seven RSAs in northern and

    central Louisiana, southern Arkansas and eastern Texas.  See "-The

    Company's Cellular Interests."



       Another component of the Company's strategy for cellular operations

    includes capturing revenues from roaming service.  Roaming service revenues

    are derived from calls made in one cellular service area by subscribers

    from other service areas.  Roaming service is made possible by technical

    standards requiring that cellular telephones be functionally compatible

    with the cellular systems in all United States market areas.  The Company

    charges premium rates (compared to rates charged to the Company's

    customers) for roaming service provided to most non-Company customers.  The

    Company's Michigan cellular properties include a significant portion of the

    interstate highway corridor between Chicago and Detroit; its Louisiana

    properties include an east-west interstate highway and a north-south

    interstate highway which intersect in its Louisiana cellular service area;

    and its Mississippi properties include two east-west interstate highways,

    one of which intersects with a north-south interstate highway in Jackson,

    Mississippi.



    Marketing



           The Company coordinates the marketing strategy for each cellular

     system which it operates.  The Company's cellular sales force consists of

    approximately 250 independent agents, which generate a significant majority

    of the Company's new subscribers, and approximately 120 sales employees.

    Each sales employee and independent agent solicits cellular customers

    exclusively for the Company.  Company sales employees are compensated by

    salary and commission and independent sales agents are paid commissions.

    The Company advertises its services through various means, including direct

    mail, billboard, magazine, radio, television and newspaper advertisements.



       During 1994 AT&T completed its acquisition of McCaw, the largest

    cellular provider in the United States.  Subject to certain regulatory

    limitations, it is anticipated that AT&T will market McCaw's service under

    the AT&T brand name.  During 1994 several other large cellular providers

    formed joint ventures to pool their cellular operating and marketing

    resources.



    Services, Customers and System Usage



       There are a number of different types of cellular telephones, all of

    which are currently compatible with cellular systems nationwide.  The

    Company sells a full range of vehicle-mounted, transportable, and hand-held

    portable cellular telephones.  Features offered in the cellular telephones

    sold by the Company include hands-free calling, repeat dialing, horn alert

    and others.



       The Company's customers are able to choose from a variety of packaged

    pricing plans which are designed to fit different calling patterns.  The

    Company typically charges its customers separately for custom-calling

    features, air time in excess of the packaged amount, and toll calls.

    Custom-calling features provided by the Company include call-forwarding,

    call-waiting, three-way calling and no-answer transfer.  The Company offers

    a voice message service in many of its markets.  This service, which

    functions like a sophisticated answering machine, allows customers to

    receive messages from callers when they are not available to take calls.



       Cellular customers come from a wide range of occupations.  They

    typically include a large proportion of individuals who work outside of

    their office, such as employees in the construction, real estate, wholesale

    and retail distribution businesses, and professionals.  More customers are

    selecting portable and other transportable cellular telephones as these

    units become more compact and fully featured, as well as more attractively

    priced.  It is anticipated that average revenue per customer will continue

    to decline as additional non-commercial customers who generate fewer local

    minutes of use are added as subscribers and as competitive pressures

    intensify and place downward pressure on rates.  See "-Regulation and

    Competition."



       Most cellular systems allow a customer to place or receive a call in a

    cellular service area away from the customer's home market area.  The

    Company has entered into "roaming agreements" with operators of other

    cellular systems covering virtually all systems in the United States; such

    agreements offer the Company's customers the opportunity to roam in these

    systems.  These reciprocal agreements automatically pre-register the

    customers of the Company's system in the other carriers' systems.  Also, a

    customer of a participating non-Company system traveling in a market

    operated by the Company where this arrangement is in effect is able to

    automatically make calls on the Company's system.  The charge to a non-

    Company customer for this service is typically at premium rates, and is

    billed by the Company to the customer's home system, which then bills the

    customer.  Occasionally, the Company will enter into reciprocal agreements

    with other cellular carriers to settle roaming usage at a rate different

    from such premium rates.  In some instances, based on competitive factors,

    the Company may charge a lower amount to its customers than the amount

    actually charged by another cellular




    carrier for roaming.  The Company anticipates that competitive factors

    and industry consolidation may place downward pressures on charging

    premium roaming rates.  For additional information on roaming revenue,
 
    see "-Strategy."



       The Company is a founding partner and participant in a national alliance

    of certain leading wireline cellular operating companies which plans to

    design, develop and implement a virtual national cellular network under the

    name MobiLink.  This cellular alliance intends to offer, among other

    things, a customer satisfaction guarantee and certain quality standards.



       During 1993 and 1994, the Company's cellular subsidiaries experienced

    strong subscriber growth in the fourth quarter, primarily due to increased

    holiday season sales.  According to the Cellular Telecommunications

    Industry Association, industry-wide cellular sales have been seasonally

    strong in the fourth calendar quarter for the past several years.



       The following table summarizes, among other things, certain information

    about the Company's customers and market penetration:



    The Company's Cellular Interests



          The Company obtained the right to provide cellular service through

    (i) the FCC's licensing process described below, under which it received

    interests in wireline licenses, and (ii) its acquisition program, under

    which it has acquired interests in both wireline and non-wireline

    licenses.  The table below sets forth certain information with respect to

    the interests in cellular systems that the Company owned as of December

    31, 1994:




       The preceding table does not include approximately 20,000 pops which

    the Company acquired in January 1995 upon acquisition of a one-half of one

    percent interest in the licensed operator of the Dallas, Texas MSA

    wireline cellular system.


    Revenue


       The following table reflects the major revenue categories for the

    Company's mobile communications operations as a percentage of mobile

    communications operating revenues in 1994, 1993 and 1992.


    Note 1:  The Company's paging operations were sold in October 1994.



       For further information on these revenue categories, see "-Services,

    Customers and System Usage."



    Regulation And Competition



           As discussed further below, the FCC and various state public utility

    commissions regulate, among other things, the licensing, construction,

    operation, interconnection arrangements, sale and acquisition of cellular

    telephone systems.



           Cellular Licensing Process.  During the 1980's and early 1990's, the

    FCC awarded two licenses to provide cellular service in each market.  Each

    licensee is required to provide service to a designated portion of the area

    or population in its licensed area as a condition to maintaining that

    license.  Initially, one license was reserved for companies offering local

    telephone service in the market (the wireline carrier) and one license was

    available for firms unaffiliated with the local telephone company (the non-

    wireline carrier).  Since mid-1986, the FCC has permitted telephone

    companies or their affiliates to acquire control of non-wireline licenses

    in markets in which they do not hold interests in the wireline license.



       The completion of acquisitions involving the transfer of control of a

    cellular system requires prior FCC approval and, in certain cases, receipt

    of other federal and state regulatory approvals.  Acquisitions of minority

    interests generally do not require FCC approval.  Whenever FCC approval is

    required, any interested party may file a petition to dismiss or deny the

    application for approval of the proposed transfer.


                                      
       Initial operating licenses are granted for ten-year periods and are

    renewable upon application to the FCC for periods of ten years.  Licenses

    may be revoked and license renewal applications denied for cause.  There

    may be competition for licenses upon the expiration of the initial ten-year

    terms and there is no assurance that any license will be renewed, although

    the FCC has issued a decision that grants a renewal expectancy during the

    license renewal period to incumbent licensees that substantially comply

    with the terms and conditions of their cellular authorizations and the

    FCC's regulations.  The licenses for the MSA markets operated by the

    Company were initially granted between 1984 and 1987, and licenses for

    operated RSAs were initially granted between 1989 and 1991.  The Company

    intends to file renewal applications for its licenses which will otherwise

    expire in 1995.



       Five years after initial operating licenses are granted, unserved areas

    within markets previously granted to licensees may be applied for by any

    qualified party.  The FCC has rules that govern the procedures for filing

    and granting such applications and has established requirements for

    constructing and operating systems in such areas.  The Company has not

    lost, and does not expect to lose, any significant market areas as a result

    of not providing service to such areas.  In addition to regulation by the

    FCC, cellular systems are subject to certain Federal Aviation

    Administration tower height regulations respecting the siting and

    construction of cellular transmitter towers and antennas.



       Cellular operators are also subject to state and local regulation in

    some instances.  Although the FCC has pre-empted the states from exercising

    jurisdiction in the areas of licensing, technical standards and market

    structure, certain states require cellular operators to be certified.  In

    addition, some state authorities regulate certain aspects of a cellular

    operator's business, including certain aspects of pricing, the resale of

    long distance service to its customers, the technical arrangements and

    charges for interconnection with the landline network, and the transfer of

    interests in cellular systems.  The LPSC has petitioned the FCC for

    continued regulation of cellular operators; the FCC is expected to rule on

    the petition in the second quarter of 1995.  The siting and construction of

    the cellular facilities may also be subject to state or local zoning, land

    use and other local regulations.



         Competition between cellular providers in each market is conducted

    principally on the basis of services and enhancements offered, the

    technical quality and coverage of the system, quality and responsiveness of

    customer service, and price.  Competition may be intense.  For a listing of

    the Company's competitors in cellular markets operated by the Company, see

    "- The Company's Cellular Interests."  Under applicable law, the Company is

    required to permit the reselling of its services.  In certain larger

    markets and in certain market segments, competition from resellers may be

    significant.  There is also substantial competition for agents.  Some of

    the Company's competitors have greater assets and resources than the

    Company.




         Developments Affecting Mobile Communications Competition.  Continued

    and rapid technological advances in the communications field, coupled with

    legislative and regulatory uncertainty, make it impossible to (i) predict

    the extent of future competition to cellular systems,  (ii) determine which

    emerging technologies pose the most viable alternatives to the Company's

    cellular operations, or (iii) list each development that may ultimately

    impact the Company's cellular operations.  No assurance can be given that

    current or future technological advances, or legislative or regulatory

    changes, will not impact the Company's cellular operations.



       Several recent FCC initiatives have resulted in the allocation of

    additional radio spectrum or the issuance of experimental licenses for

    emerging mobile communications technologies that will or may be competitive

    with the Company's cellular and telephone operations, including personal

    communication services ("PCS").  Although there is no universally

    recognized definition of PCS, the term is generally used to refer to

    wireless services to be provided by licensees operating in the 1850 MHz to

    1990 MHz radio frequency band using microcells and high-capacity digital

    technology.  When offered commercially, PCS technology currently under

    development may permit PCS operators to offer wireless data, image and

    multimedia services.  The extent to which PCS will offer services that are

    complementary or competitive with cellular services is uncertain, and is

    expected to be influenced by continuing developments in PCS and cellular

    technologies and by FCC regulation.



       The FCC has adopted rules to auction up to six PCS licenses per market.

    Under these rules, two 30 MHz frequency blocks will be awarded for each of

    the 51 Rand McNally Major Trading Areas ("MTAs"), while one 30 MHz and

    three 10 MHz frequency blocks will be awarded for each of the 493 Rand

    McNally Basic Trading Areas ("BTAs").  Subject to certain exceptions, the

    Company will be permitted to freely pursue PCS licenses outside its

    cellular markets, but will be limited to acquiring only one 10 MHz block in

    licensed areas where it controls more than a 20% interest in a cellular

    licensee and serves more than 10% of the population within the PCS licensed

    area.  The Company did not participate in the FCC's auction of the MTA

    licenses.  If attractive opportunities arise, the Company may participate

    in the FCC's auctions of BTA licenses to be held in 1995.  PCS service may

    be commercially available in certain areas as early as 1996.



       In addition to PCS, users and potential users of cellular systems may

    find their communication needs satisfied by other current and developing

    technologies, several of which may enjoy potential operational and service

    advantages through their use of digital technology.  The FCC has recently

    authorized the licensees of certain specialized mobile radio service

    ("SMR") systems (which historically have generally been used by taxicabs

    and tow truck operators) to configure their systems so as to operate in a

    manner similar to cellular systems.  The Company believes that SMR systems

    are operating in a majority of its cellular markets.  Certain well-

    established SMR providers have announced their intention to create a

    nationwide digital mobile communications system to compete with cellular

    systems.  Other similar communication services which have the technical

    capability to handle mobile telephone calls may provide competition in

    certain markets, although these services currently lack the subscriber

    capacity of cellular systems.  One-way paging or beeper services that



    feature voice message and data display as well as tones may be adequate for

    potential subscribers who do not need to communicate with the caller.

    Other two-way mobile services may also be competitive with the Company's

    services.  For example, the second generation of cordless telephone

    technology ("CT-2") will permit the application of this technology to a

    public environment.  During 1994 the FCC auctioned additional spectrum

    suitable for two-way paging and other wireless data services, which is

    expected to lead to increased development of these services.



       The FCC has taken various actions to authorize mobile satellite systems

    in which transmissions from mobile units to satellites would supplement or

    replace transmissions to land-based stations.  Such satellite-based systems

    are being studied and designed, including international systems, and no

    assurance can be given that such systems will not ultimately be successful

    in supplementing or replacing cellular systems which communicate directly

    to land-based stations.



       As described further under "Telephone Operations - Regulation and

    Competition," in connection with the well-publicized convergence of

    telecommunications, cable, video, computer and entertainment businesses,

    several large companies have recently announced plans to offer products

    that would significantly enhance current communications and data

    transmissions services and, in some instances, introduce new services.

    Although much of the resulting competition is expected to center on

    wireline services, it is anticipated that these developments may also

    increase competition in the mobile communications industry.  Several

    companies are currently developing and marketing small hand-held devices

    that provide digital wireless data transmission services that compete with

    similar analog services currently being provided by cellular companies.



       As discussed further under "Telephone Operations - Regulation and

    Competition," recently several bills have been filed in the U.S. Congress

    that have the potential to significantly alter the telecommunications

    industry, including bills that focus on the mobile communications industry.



       Recently, several large cellular providers have merged with other

    companies or formed joint ventures.  The resulting entities will have

    substantially greater assets and resources than the Company.  These joint

    ventures and others have also pooled their resources to bid on PCS

    licenses.  For more information, see "-Marketing."



       Although it is uncertain how PCS, SMR, CT-2, mobile satellites and other

    emerging technologies will ultimately affect the Company, they are not

    anticipated to be significant sources of competition in the Company's

    markets in the near term.  Moreover, management believes that equipping its

    current cellular networks with digital enhancements and applying new

    microcellular technologies should permit its cellular systems to provide

    services comparable with the emerging technologies described above,

    although no assurances can be given that this will happen or that future

    technological advances or legislative or regulatory changes will not create

    additional sources of competition.




    Certain Considerations Regarding Cellular Telephone Operations



        The cellular industry has a relatively limited operating history and

    there continues to be uncertainty regarding its future.  Among other

    factors, there is uncertainty regarding (i) the continued growth in the

    number of customers, (ii) the usage and pricing of cellular services,

    particularly as market penetration increases and lower-usage customers

    subscribe for service, (iii) the number of customers who will terminate

    service each month, and (iv) the impact of changes in technology,

    regulation and competition, any of which could have a material adverse

    effect on the Company.  See "- Regulation and Competition."



       The market value of cellular interests is frequently determined on the

    basis of the number of pops owned by a cellular provider.  The population

    of a particular cellular market, however, does not necessarily bear a

    direct relationship to the number of subscribers or the revenues that may

    be realized from the operation of the related cellular system.  The future

    market value of the Company's cellular interests will depend on, among

    other things, the success of its cellular operations.



                                      OTHER



         The Company has certain obligations based on federal, state and local

    laws relating to the protection of the environment.  Costs of compliance

    through 1994 have not been material and the Company currently has no reason

    to believe that such costs will become material.



         For additional information concerning the business and properties of

    the Company, see notes 2, 3, 13, 16 and 17 of Notes to Consolidated

    Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 elsewhere herein.



    Item 2.   Properties.



         The Company's properties consist principally of (i) telephone lines,

    central office equipment, telephone instruments and related equipment, and

    land and building related to telephone operations and (ii) switching and

    cell site equipment related to cellular telephone operations.  As of

    December 31, 1994, the Company's gross property, plant and equipment of

    approximately $1.3 billion consisted of the following:


    Telephone:

         Cable and wire....................................   44.1%
         Central office equipment..........................   23.7
         General support...................................    7.0
         Information origination/termination equipment.....    1.6
         Construction in progress..........................    5.1
         Other.............................................     .4
                                                             ------    
                                                              81.9
    Mobile Communications ................................    11.6
    Other.................................................     6.5
                                                             ------          
                                                             100.0%
                                                             ======     


                               
         "Cable and wire" facilities consist primarily of buried cable and

    aerial cable, poles, wire, conduit and drops.  "Central office equipment"

    consists primarily of switching equipment, circuit equipment and related

    facilities.  "General support" consists primarily of land, buildings,

    tools, furnishings, fixtures, motor vehicles and work equipment.

    "Information origination/termination equipment" consists primarily of

    premise equipment (private branch exchanges and telephones) for official

    company use.  "Construction in progress" includes property of the foregoing

    categories that has not been placed in service because it is still under

    construction.  The properties of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are

    subject to mortgages securing the funded debt of such companies.  The

    Company owns substantially all of the central office buildings, local

    administrative buildings, warehouses, and storage facilities used in its

    telephone operations.  The Company leases most of the offices used in its

    cellular operations; certain of its transmitter sites are leased while

    others are owned by the Company.  For further information on the location

    and type of the Company's properties, see the descriptions of the Company's

    telephone and mobile communications operations in Item 1.



    Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.



       From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation incidental to

    its business, including administrative hearings of state public utility

    commissions relating primarily to rate making, actions relating to employee

    claims, occasional grievance hearings before labor regulatory agencies and

    miscellaneous third party tort actions.  Currently, there are no material

    legal proceedings.



    Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.



             Not applicable.



    Executive Officers of the Registrant



         Information concerning Executive Officers, set forth at Item 10 in

    Part III hereof, is incorporated in Part I of this Report by reference.




                                     PART II



    Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder

    Matters.



         Century's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is

    traded under the symbol CTL.  The following table sets forth the high and

    low sale prices, along with the quarterly dividends, for each of the

    quarters indicated:


         Common stock dividends during 1993 and 1994 were paid each quarter.

    As of February 28, 1995, there were approximately 7,000 stockholders of

    record of Century's common stock.



    Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.



         The following table presents certain selected consolidated financial

    data as of and for each of the years ended in the five-year period ended

    December 31, 1994:



            The following table presents certain selected consolidated operating

    data as of the end of each of the years in the five-year period ended


    December 31, 1994:


       See Items 1 and 2 in Part I and notes 1, 9, 16 and 20 of Notes to

    Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 elsewhere herein for

    additional information.





    Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and

             Results of Operations



                              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


    OVERVIEW

       The 1994 net income of Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. and

    subsidiaries (the "Company") increased 45.3% to $100.2 million from

    $69.0 million during 1993.  Income before the cumulative effect of changes

    in accounting principles during 1992 was $60.0 million.


       Fully diluted earnings per share for 1994 increased 36.4% to $1.80 from

    $1.32 during 1993.  Fully diluted earnings per share in 1992 before the

    cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles was $1.22.  The

    average number of fully diluted shares outstanding increased 4.0% and 5.8%

    in 1994 and 1993, respectively, as a result of shares issued in connection

    with acquisitions and the Company's dividend reinvestment, incentive and

    benefit plans.


       The Company is a regional diversified telecommunications company that

    is primarily engaged in providing traditional telephone services and

    cellular mobile telephone services.  The Company's 1994 operating income

    was $169.4 million, an increase of $44.6 million (35.8%) over 1993

    operating income of $124.8 million.  During 1994 the operating income of

    the Company's telephone segment and its mobile communications segment

    increased $23.1 million (20.1%) and $21.5 million (217.4%), respectively,

    compared to 1993. The Company's operating income during 1992 was $109.6

    million.




       The operating income of the telephone segment includes the operations,

    subsequent to each respective acquisition, of Century Telephone of Ohio,

    Inc. ("Ohio"), acquired in April 1992, and Century Telephone of San

    Marcos, Inc. ("San Marcos"), acquired in April 1993.  See Note 16 of Notes

    to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information applicable

    to these acquisitions.


       The Company's mobile communications operations reflect the operations

    of the cellular entities in which the Company has a majority interest.

    The minority interest owners' share of the income or loss of such entities

    is reflected as an expense in "Other income and expense."  The operating

    income of the mobile communications segment includes (i) the operations of

    the Alexandria, Louisiana Metropolitan Statistical Area ("MSA") cellular

    system ("Alexandria") subsequent to its acquisition in December 1992, (ii)

    the operations of Celutel, Inc. ("Celutel") subsequent to its acquisition

    in February 1994, and (iii) the Company's paging operations prior to their

    sale in October 1994.  See Notes 16 and 17 of Notes to Consolidated

    Financial Statements for additional information.



       According to data derived from published sources, as of December 31,

    1993 the Company had the second highest ratio of owned cellular pops (the

    population of licensed cellular telephone markets multiplied by the

    Company's proportionate equity interests in the licensed operators

    thereof) to telephone access lines among the 20 largest telephone

    companies (based on access lines) in the United States.  Accordingly, the

    Company anticipates that its mobile communications operations will

    continue to increasingly influence the Company's overall operations as the

    cellular industry matures.  Contributions to operating revenues and

    operating income by the Company's telephone and mobile communications

    operations for each of the three years ended December 31, 1994 were as

    follows:


       The Company's share of earnings or loss from the cellular entities in

    which it has less than a majority interest is accounted for using the

    equity method and is reflected in "Income from unconsolidated cellular

    entities."  The Company's share of income from such entities increased to

    $15.7 million in 1994 from $6.6 million in 1993 and $1.7 million in 1992.



       As of January 1, 1992, the Company adopted Statement of Financial

    Accounting Standards No. 106 ("SFAS 106"), "Employers' Accounting for

    Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," and Statement of Financial

    Accounting Standards No. 109 ("SFAS 109"), "Accounting for Income Taxes."

    The cumulative effect of the changes in accounting principles related to

    SFAS 106 and SFAS 109 reduced 1992 net income by $14.8 million ($.30 per

    fully diluted share) and $913,000 ($.01 per fully diluted share),

    respectively.



    TELEPHONE OPERATIONS


       The Company's telephone operations are conducted in rural, suburban and

    small urban communities in 14 states.  Approximately 82% of the Company's

    telephone access lines are in Wisconsin, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio and

    Arkansas.



    Local Service Revenues



       Local service revenues are derived from the provision of local exchange

    telephone services in the Company's franchised service areas.  The $11.3

    million increase in such revenues in 1994 included $4.5 million due to the

    increase in the number of customer access lines, $3.8 million from

    increased rates for basic services and $1.2 million due to acquisitions.

    Acquisitions contributed $7.5 million to the 1993 increase of $10.6

    million; $2.7 million of the increase was due to the increase in access

    lines.  The remaining increases in 1994 and 1993 were primarily due to the

    provision of custom calling features.  Internal access line growth during

    1994, 1993 and 1992 was 4.1%, 3.6% and 3.8%, respectively.



    Network Access and Long Distance Revenues



       Network access and long distance revenues primarily relate to services

    provided to interexchange carriers (long distance carriers) in connection

    with the completion of long distance telephone calls.  Substantially all

    of the Company's interstate network access revenues are received through

    pooling arrangements administered by the National Exchange Carrier

    Association ("NECA") based on cost separation studies and average schedule

    settlement agreements.  The NECA receives access charges billed by the

    Company and other participating local exchange carriers ("LECs") to

    interstate long distance carriers and other LEC customers for their use of

    the local exchange network to complete long distance calls.  These charges

    to the long distance carriers and other LEC customers are based on

    tariffed access rates filed with the Federal Communications Commission

    ("FCC")




    by the NECA on behalf of the Company and other participating LECs.  Long

    distance and intrastate network access revenues are based on access rates,

    cost separation studies or special settlement arrangements with intrastate

    long distance carriers.



       Network access and long distance revenues increased $26.7 million

    (12.3%) in 1994 and $34.3 million (18.8%) in 1993 due to the following

    factors:


       Other, net in the preceding table reflects reductions of $2.3 million

    and $1.0 million in 1994 and 1993, respectively, in certain settlements

    received from a large local exchange operating company by the Company's

    Louisiana subsidiaries.  Also included in other, net in 1994 is a $1.9

    million reduction in intrastate high cost assistance revenues as a result

    of the phase-out of the Wisconsin state support fund, the loss of which

    was offset by an increase in local rates in the same jurisdictions.



    Other Revenues



       Other revenues include revenues related to (i) leasing, selling,

    installing, maintaining and repairing customer premise telecommunications

    equipment and wiring, (ii) providing billing and collection services for

    interexchange carriers, (iii) leasing network facilities and (iv)

    participating in the publication of local directories.  The increase in

    other revenues during 1994 was primarily due to a $1.2 million increase in

    directory advertising revenues and a $1.1 million increase in billing and

    collection revenues.  The 1993 increase was primarily due to acquisitions.

    Certain large telecommuni-cations companies for which the Company

    currently provides billing and collection services have indicated their

    desire to reduce their billing and collection expenses which may lead to

    reduced future billing and collection revenues.




    Operating Expenses



       Plant operations expenses during 1994 and 1993 increased $3.5 million

    (4.4%) and $13.7 million (20.5%), respectively.  Operating expenses

    attributable to acquisitions accounted for $2.3 million of the 1994

    increase.  A $1.2 million increase in salaries, wages and benefits during

    1994 was partially offset by a $531,000 reduction in postemployment

    benefit expense.  Approximately $7.1 million of the 1993 increase was due

    to operating expenses attributable to acquisitions.  Increases in

    salaries, wages and benefits during 1993 accounted for approximately $2.2

    million. The remainder of the 1993 increase was due to increases in other

    general operating expenses.



       Expenses attributable to acquisitions contributed $2.1 million and

    $11.0 million, respectively, to the 1994 increase of $6.3 million (7.2%)

    and the 1993 increase of $14.8 million (20.3%) in customer operations,

    corporate, and other expenses.  Ad valorem taxes increased $1.0 million in

    1994 and $601,000 in 1993 due to the increase in plant in service.  The

    remainder of the increases resulted from increases in other general

    operating expenses.



       Depreciation and amortization increased $8.0 million (12.3%) and $11.2

    million (20.9%) in 1994 and 1993, respectively.  Approximately $2.4

    million and $5.4 million of the increases in 1994 and 1993, respectively,

    were due to acquisitions.  Depreciation expense included nonrecurring

    additional depreciation charges approved by regulators in certain

    jurisdictions which, exclusive of acquisitions, aggregated $3.3 million in

    1993 and $2.9 million in 1992.  In addition, the Company obtained higher

    recurring depreciation rates for certain subsidiaries during the last

    three years.  Excluding acquisitions, the first-year effects of the higher

    rates were approximately $5.6 million in 1994, $1.7 million in 1993 and

    $770,000 in 1992.  The remaining increases in depreciation and

    amortization were due to higher levels of plant in service.  The composite

    depreciation rate for telephone properties, including the additional

    depreciation charges, was 7.1%, 7.1% and 6.6% for 1994, 1993 and 1992,

    respectively.



    Other



       For additional information regarding certain matters that have impacted

    or may impact the Company's telephone operations, see Regulation and

    Competition below.





    MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS



       The Company's mobile communications segment at December 31, 1994

    consisted entirely of operations of the cellular entities in which the

    Company has a majority interest.  The Company's cellular customers are

    located primarily in Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi and Texas.  The

    Company's share of income from cellular entities in which it has less than

    a majority interest (which is not included in the mobile communications

    segment) was $15.7 million, $6.6 million and $1.7 million during 1994,

    1993 and 1992, respectively, and is reflected in "Income from

    unconsolidated cellular entities."



    Operating Revenues



        Cellular service revenues include monthly service fees for providing

    access and airtime to customers, service fees for providing airtime to

    users roaming through the Company's service areas and toll revenue.

    Cellular service revenues during 1994 increased to $141.3 million from

    $76.6 million in 1993 and $54.5 million in 1992.



       The 1994 and 1993 increases in cellular service revenues were primarily

    attributable to the significant increases in cellular customers resulting

    principally from acquisitions, increased demand and expanded areas of

    service.  Cellular units in service in the Company's majority-owned

    markets increased to 211,710 (of which 35,027 were in the Celutel markets)

    as of December 31, 1994 from 116,484 as of December 31, 1993 and 73,084 as

    of December 31, 1992.  Exclusive of acquisitions, access and usage

    revenues increased $27.2 million (48.3%) in 1994 and $14.6 million (36.9%)

    in 1993 and roaming and toll revenues increased $9.8 million (54.9%) and

    $3.0 million (22.3%) in 1994 and 1993, respectively.  The remainder of the

    1994 revenue increase was due substantially to the Celutel operations,

    which increased revenues by $26.3 million, and the remainder of the 1993

    increase was due to the Alexandria operations, which increased 1993

    revenues by $3.6 million.




       The average monthly cellular service revenue per customer declined to

    $69 in 1994 from $71 in 1993 and $75 in 1992.  It has been an industry-

    wide trend that early subscribers have normally been the heaviest users

    and that a higher percentage of new subscribers tend to be lower usage

    customers.  The average monthly service revenue per customer may further

    decline (i) as market penetration increases and additional lower usage

    customers are activated and (ii) as competitive pressures intensify and

    place downward pressure on rates.  The Company will continue to focus on

    customer service and attempt to stimulate cellular usage by promoting the

    availability of certain enhanced services and by improving the quality of

    its service through the construction of additional cell sites and

    enhancements to its system.



       Other revenues included $2.9 million and $4.2 million in 1994 and 1993,

    respectively, of revenues attributable to the Company's paging operations,

    which were sold in October 1994.



    Operating Expenses



       The $12.2 million increase in 1994 in cost of sales and other operating

    expenses included $6.7 million of expenses of Celutel since its

    acquisition in February 1994.  Expenses incurred in 1993 as a result of

    the December 1992 acquisition of Alexandria were $599,000.  The remaining

    increases in cost of sales and other operating expenses in 1994 and 1993

    were primarily due to interconnecting and operating new cell sites which

    were built to improve service in several existing markets and to initiate

    and develop service in several rural markets.  The Company operated 230

    cell sites at December 31, 1994 in entities in which it has a majority

    interest, compared to 158 at December 31, 1993 and 96 at December 31,

    1992.  Of the 1994 net increase of 72 cell sites, 29 were added through

    acquisitions.



       General, administrative and customer service expenses increased $9.3

    million (39.0%) in 1994, $7.4 million of which was due to the Celutel

    operations.  The Alexandria operations contributed $1.2 million of costs

    to the 1993 increase of $4.2 million (21.3%).  The remaining increases

    were primarily related to the increased number of customers.



       During 1994 and 1993, sales and marketing expenses increased $13.2

    million (66.3%) and $6.7 million (51.1%), respectively, of which $8.2

    million in 1994 and $4.2 million in 1993 were due to increases in

    commissions paid to agents for selling cellular services to new customers.

    The remaining increase in 1994 was due to the Celutel operations.  The

    remaining increase during 1993 was primarily due to an $812,000 increase

    in advertising costs and to $919,000 of costs incurred in the Alexandria

    operations.



       Depreciation and amortization increased $9.9 million (87.1%) in 1994

    and $2.4 million (26.6%) in 1993 due to increases of $4.9 million and $2.4

    million, respectively, applicable to higher levels of cellular plant in

    service.  Approximately $3.8 million of the 1994 increase was due to

    amortization of goodwill attributable to the acquisition of Celutel.




    Other



       The Company's paging operations, which contributed 2.5% of mobile

    communications revenues from January 1994 through September 1994, were

    sold in October 1994.



       For additional information regarding certain matters that have impacted

    or may impact the Company's mobile communications operations, see

    Regulation and Competition below.



    INTEREST EXPENSE



       Interest expense increased $12.4 million (41.2%) in 1994 and $3.0

    million (11.0%) in 1993.  The increase during 1994 was primarily the

    result of a 34% increase in average debt outstanding, a substantial amount

    of which was incurred in connection with the acquisition of Celutel.

    Higher interest expense incurred during 1993 due to a 24% increase in

    average debt outstanding was substantially offset by the effect of lower

    average interest rates.



    INCOME FROM UNCONSOLIDATED CELLULAR ENTITIES



       Earnings from unconsolidated cellular entities, net of the amortization

    of associated goodwill, increased $9.1 million (136.9%) during 1994.  An

    increase of $2.9 million in the Company's share of income from the

    partnership interests acquired in the San Marcos acquisition in April 1993

    contributed to the 1994 increase.  The remainder of the 1994 increase was

    due to the improvement in profitability of other cellular entities in

    which the Company owns less than a majority interest.  The Company's share

    of income from the partnership interests acquired in the San Marcos

    acquisition contributed substantially to the $4.9 million (291.6%)

    increase in income from unconsolidated cellular entities during 1993.



    GAIN ON SALES OF ASSETS



       The Company sold the assets comprising a cellular system in a Rural

    Service Area ("RSA") in Minnesota in 1994 and recognized a pre-tax gain of

    $14.7 million ($8.5 million after-tax; $.15 per fully diluted share).  In

    addition, the Company sold its paging operations in 1994 which resulted in

    a pre-tax gain of $1.2 million ($756,000 after-tax; $.01 per fully diluted

    share).



       During 1993 the Company sold a minority investment in a telephone

    company which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $1.7 million ($1.1 million

    after-tax; $.02 per fully diluted share).





       During 1992 the Company consummated the sales of (i) two telephone

    subsidiaries which served approximately 2,000 access lines, (ii) its

    minority interests in an MSA cellular partnership and an RSA cellular

    partnership, and (iii) its 100% interest in an RSA cellular market.  The

    sales resulted in an aggregate pre-tax gain of $4.0 million ($2.6 million

    after-tax; $.05 per fully diluted share).



    OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE



       Other income and expense during 1994 was $3.1 million compared to $3.3

    million during 1993 and $4.4 million in 1992.  The increased profitability

    during 1994 of the Company's majority-owned and operated cellular entities

    resulted in a corresponding increase of $2.9 million in the expense

    recorded by the Company to reflect the minority interest owners' share of

    the profits.  Such increase in expense in 1994 was substantially offset by

    an increase of $1.8 million in interest income, of which $1.5 million was

    interest income earned on a $25.0 million note receivable issued to

    Century in May 1994.  For additional information, see Liquidity and

    Capital Resources - Investing Activities.  Other income and expense

    decreased $1.1 million (25.3%) in 1993 primarily because of a decrease in

    interest income.



       Other income and expense includes the results of operations of

    subsidiaries of the Company which are not included in telephone or mobile

    communications operations, including, but not limited to, the Company's

    competitive access subsidiary and the Company's nonregulated long distance

    operations, the combined results of which were not significantly different

    in 1994, 1993 and 1992.



    INCOME TAX EXPENSE



       The effective income tax rate was 37.9%, 35.1% and 35.2% in 1994, 1993

    and 1992, respectively.  The increase in the effective rate in 1994 was

    primarily the result of (i) amortization of investment tax credits and the

    SFAS 109 regulatory liability remaining relatively stable while income

    before taxes increased and (ii) the effect of an increase in the

    amortization of goodwill which is not tax deductible.  The additional

    federal income taxes incurred during 1993 as a result of the 1% increase

    in the statutory federal income tax rate in accordance with the provisions

    of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (the "Act") was more than

    offset by the tax benefit applicable to the deductibility of certain

    intangible assets also provided by the Act.



    CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES



       The Company adopted SFAS 106 as of January 1, 1992.  SFAS 106 requires

    that the expected cost of providing postretirement health care and life

    insurance benefits be accrued during the years an employee renders service

    to the Company. The cumulative effect of the change in accounting

    principle related to SFAS 106 decreased net income for 1992 by $14.8

    million ($.30 per fully diluted share).





       The Company also adopted SFAS 109 as of January 1, 1992, under which

    the accounting for income taxes is based on an asset and liability

    approach rather than the deferred method.  The cumulative effect of the

    change in accounting principle related to SFAS 109 decreased net income

    for 1992 by $913,000 ($.01 per fully diluted share).



       The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 112

    ("SFAS 112"), "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits," in the

    first quarter of 1994.  SFAS 112 addresses the accounting for workers

    compensation, disability and other benefits provided after employment but

    before retirement by requiring accrual of the expected cost when it is

    probable that a benefit obligation has been incurred and the amount can be

    reasonably estimated.  Liabilities reflected in the consolidated balance

    sheet as of December 31, 1993 for postemployment benefits were not

    materially different than those required by SFAS 112; therefore, no

    cumulative effect of change in accounting principle was recorded upon

    adoption of SFAS 112.



    INFLATION



       The effects of increased costs historically have been mitigated by the

    ability to recover certain costs applicable to the Company's regulated

    telephone operations through the rate-making process.  As operating

    expenses in the nonregulated areas increase as a result of inflation, the

    Company, to the extent permitted by competition, recovers the costs by

    increasing prices for its services and equipment.



       While the regulatory process does not consider replacement cost of

    physical plant, the Company has historically been able to earn a return on

    the increased cost of its net investment when facilities have been

    replaced.  Possible future regulatory changes may alter the Company's

    ability to recover increased costs in its regulated operations.  For

    additional information regarding the current regulatory environment, see

    Regulation and Competition below.



                         LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



           Excluding cash used for acquisitions, the Company relies on cash

    provided by operations to provide a substantial portion of its cash needs.

    The Company's telephone operations have historically provided a stable

    source of cash flow which has helped the Company continue its long-term

    program of capital improvements.  Cash provided by mobile communications

    operations has increased each year since that segment became cash-flow

    positive in 1991.



    Operating Activities



       Net cash provided by operating activities was $199.8 million,  $166.8

    million and $146.3 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  The

    Company's accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows identifies





    major differences between net income and net cash provided by operating

    activities for each of these years.  For additional information relating

    to the telephone operations and mobile communications operations of the

    Company, see Results of Operations.



    Investing Activities



       Net cash used in investing activities was $280.3 million and $248.7

    million during 1994 and 1993, respectively.  Capital expenditures for 1994

    were $152.3 million for telephone operations, $39.9 million for mobile

    communications operations and $8.6 million for other operations.  Cash

    used in connection with the February 1994 acquisition of Celutel

    (exclusive of the refinancing of $41.7 million of Celutel's debt) was

    $56.0 million.  The remainder of the $106.0 million purchase price was

    paid through the issuance of 1.9 million shares of Century common stock.



       In connection with the corporate restructuring of an unaffiliated local

    exchange telephone company which has been viewed from time to time as an

    acquisition candidate, Century loaned the telephone company's holding

    company $25.0 million in 1994.  In 1993, another company had acquired

    rights to purchase a controlling interest in the telephone company,

    subject to the first refusal rights of the telephone company's principal

    stockholder.  Century's loan allowed this stockholder to exercise his

    first refusal rights and preserved the future availability of the

    telephone company as an acquisition candidate for Century.  The loan is

    collateralized by security interests in the capital stock of the holding

    company and the telephone company and by a guaranty from the holding

    company's principal stockholder.  In connection with the loan, Century

    obtained first refusal rights to acquire the stock of the holding company,

    the stock of its subsidiaries and/or the assets of its subsidiaries under

    various specified circumstances.



       Net cash used in investing activities during 1993 was $22.5 million

    less than during 1992 primarily because the amount of cash used for

    acquisitions during 1993 was $97.9 million less than in the previous year.

    Payments for property, plant and equipment during 1993 increased by $64.2

    million.



    Financing Activities



       Net cash provided by financing activities during 1994 and 1993 was

    $77.8 million and $81.9 million, respectively.  During 1994 the Company

    filed a shelf registration statement with the United States Securities and

    Exchange Commission registering $400.0 million of senior unsecured debt

    securities under which the Company issued $150.0 million of senior notes

    in May 1994.  See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

    The proceeds were used to discharge the Company's indebtedness under a

    $90.0 million bridge loan incurred to fund substantially all of the

    Company's cash requirements in connection with the acquisition of Celutel

    in February 1994 (including the refinancing of $41.7 million of Celutel's

    debt) and to reduce the Company's short-term bank indebtedness under

    various floating-rate credit facilities. In connection with the






    offering, in the second quarter of 1994 Moody's upgraded Century's senior

    unsecured debt rating to Baa1 and Standard & Poor's affirmed its BBB+

    rating.



       The $158.0 million of notes payable at December 31, 1994 reflects the

    Company's continued utilization of borrowings under its credit facilities

    to take advantage of favorable short-term interest rates.  The Company

    currently intends to continue to monitor market conditions for favorable

    opportunities to refinance some or all of these borrowings with long-term

    debt.



       Cash provided by financing activities in 1993 was $41.0 million less

    than in 1992 primarily because net borrowings, including long-term debt

    and notes payable, were $38.4 million less than in 1992.  The $88.3

    million increase in notes payable outstanding in 1993 reflected the

    Company's utilization of borrowings under its credit facilities as

    discussed above.  Proceeds from the issuance of debt during 1992 included

    $115.0 million from the issuance of 6% convertible debentures in February

    1992 to provide the major portion of the purchase price of Ohio.



    Other



       Budgeted capital expenditures for 1995 total $112.0 million for

    telephone operations, $59.0 million for mobile communications operations

    and $12.0 million for other operations.  The Company anticipates that

    capital expenditures in its telephone operations will continue to include

    the installation of fiber optic cable, the replacement of mechanical

    switches with digital switches and the upgrading of its plant and

    equipment to provide enhanced services.  Mobile communications capital

    expenditures are expected to continue to focus primarily on constructing

    additional cell sites and upgrading the Company's cellular systems to

    increase capacity, to enhance the Company's ability to provide digital

    service in the future and to begin providing digital service in certain

    markets.  Budgeted capital expenditures for other operations include

    capital construction costs planned to be expended in the Company's

    recently-formed competitive access operations.



       The Company decided not to participate in the FCC's auction of Major

    Trading Area broadband licenses to provide Personal Communications

    Services ("PCS").  If attractive opportunities arise, the Company may

    participate in the FCC's auctions of Basic Trading Area PCS licenses to be

    held in 1995.  Pending these auctions, the Company will continue to equip

    its current cellular networks with digital enhancements which may, when

    applied with new microcellular technologies, permit the Company's cellular

    systems to provide services comparable with emerging PCS technologies.



       The Company will continue its long-term strategy of pursuing the

    acquisition of attractive communications properties in exchange for cash,

    securities or both, and may require additional financing in connection

    therewith.  Approximately 1.2 million shares of Century common stock and

    125,000 shares of Century





    preferred stock remain available for future issuance in connection with

    acquisitions under an acquisition shelf registration statement.



       As of December 31, 1994, Century's telephone subsidiaries had available

    for use $124.0 million of commitments for long-term financing from the

    Rural Utilities Service ("RUS") (formerly the Rural Electrification

    Administration or REA) and the Company had $65.1 million of undrawn

    committed bank lines of credit.  In addition, approximately $28.0 million

    of uncom-mitted credit facilities were available to Century at December

    31, 1994.  The Company also has access to debt and equity capital markets,

    including its shelf registration statements mentioned above.  Applications

    for additional long-term financing for Century's telephone subsidiaries

    have been filed with the RUS and are in various stages of processing.  The

    Company has experienced no significant problems in obtaining funds for

    capital expenditures or other purposes.



       On January 20, 1995 Century called for redemption all $115.0 million of

    its outstanding 6% convertible debentures due 2007 at a redemption price

    of 104.2% of principal plus accrued interest through February 21, 1995,

    the redemption date.  All of the debentures were converted into Century

    common stock by the debenture holders on or before February 13, 1995 at a

    conversion price of $25.33 per share.



       Common stockholders' equity as a percentage of total capitalization was

    48.4% and 48.5% at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  If all of

    the 6% convertible debentures discusssed in the preceding paragraph had

    been converted into common stock at December 31, 1994, common

    stockholders' equity as a percentage of total capitalization would have

    been 57.0%.



                            REGULATION AND COMPETITION



       The majority of the Company's telephone operations are regulated

    extensively by various state regulatory agencies and by the FCC.

    Primarily as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological

    changes, competition has been introduced and encouraged in certain sectors

    of the telephone industry.  It is expected that upcoming legislation will

    address the telecommunications industry and that regulation will decrease

    and competition increase in the traditionally monopolistic portions of the

    industry.  While competition is not new to the Company's cellular

    operations, the competitive environment for the cellular industry is also

    experiencing change.



    Recent Events Affecting the Company



       Revenues from the USF increased approximately $9.7 million to $36.3

    million during 1994 after increasing $6.2 million during 1993.  In 1994

    the FCC sought public comment on the effectiveness of high cost assistance

    programs provided to LECs, including the USF.  In addition, certain bills

    recently considered by the United States Congress have sought changes to

    Federal high cost assistance programs.  Although there is no assurance



    that the current level of cost recovery from such programs will be

    maintained, it is anticipated that mechanisms for high cost assistance

    will continue to be provided.



       In 1993 the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin ("PSCW") ordered the

    Wisconsin state support fund existing at July 1, 1993 to be phased-out.

    Certain of the Company's subsidiaries affected by the order have received

    approval from the PSCW for increased local rates and other compensation

    which offset the loss of the amounts that the Company's subsidiaries had

    been receiving from the state support fund.  In addition, the PSCW is

    conducting an examination of transactions in which Century and its service

    subsidiaries provided to the Company's Wisconsin telephone subsidiaries

    various services and materials, including supplies and managerial,

    technical and accounting services.  While this examination may result in

    refunds to customers, the Company does not believe that results of

    operations will be materially affected.



       In July 1994 the Wisconsin Telecommunications Act of 1993 was signed

    into law.  Among other things, the act requires the PSCW to authorize

    cable television operators to provide local exchange service in larger

    markets, including one of the Company's markets.  Although no cable

    television operator has requested authorization from the PSCW to provide

    local exchange service in the Company's market, the Company anticipates

    that such a request will be forthcoming.  During 1994 certain other states

    in which the Company operates took legislative and/or regulatory steps to

    further introduce competition into the LEC business.



       After initiating an informal earnings review during 1993 of all

    independent local exchange carriers in Louisiana, the Louisiana Public

    Service Commission ("LPSC") recently docketed a formal earnings review of

    such carriers which could possibly lead to a reduction in earnings.  As

    19% of the Company's telephone access lines are in Louisiana, there is no

    assurance that the impact of possible changes resulting from such review

    will not have a material effect on future results of operations.



       Certain long distance carriers continue to request that the Company

    reduce intrastate access tariffed rates for certain of its telephone

    subsidiaries.  In March 1994 a major long distance carrier filed a

    petition with the LPSC requesting that the commission investigate and

    lower the rates for intrastate access charges charged to long distance

    carriers by certain local exchange telephone companies, including the

    Company's Louisiana subsidiaries.  There is no assurance that these

    requests will not result in reduced intrastate access revenues.



    Events Affecting the Telecommunications Industry



       The telecommunications industry is currently undergoing various

    regulatory, competitive and technological changes that make it impossible

    to determine the form or degree of future regulation and competition

    affecting the Company's telephone and mobile communications operations.

    The FCC and a number of state regulatory commissions have begun to reduce

    the regulatory oversight of LECs.  Coincident with this movement toward

    reduced regulation is the introduction and encouragement of local exchange




    competition by the FCC, various state regulatory commissions and others.

    These changes have accelerated the growth of certain companies providing

    competitive access and other services that compete with LECs' services and

    led to the announcement by certain interexchange carriers and cable

    television companies of their desire to enter the local telephone

    business, particularly in larger markets.  Wireless telephone services are

    also expected to increasingly compete with LECs.  The FCC has recently

    allocated additional frequency spectrum for mobile communications

    technologies that will or may be competitive with cellular, including PCS

    (for which the FCC began to auction operating licenses in late 1994) and

    mobile satellite services.  The FCC has also authorized certain

    specialized mobile radio service licensees to configure their systems so

    as to operate in a manner similar to cellular systems.  Some of these

    licensees have announced their intention to create a nationwide mobile

    communications system to compete with cellular systems.  In addition, in

    connection with the well-publicized convergence of telecommunications,

    cable, video, computer and other technologies, several large companies

    have recently announced plans to offer products that would significantly

    enhance current communications and data transmission services and, in some

    instances, introduce new two-way video, entertainment, data, consumer and

    other multimedia services.



       In 1994 the United States House of Representatives passed two

    telecommunications bills that proposed to substantially alter the

    regulatory framework of the telecommunications industry by, among other

    things, promoting local exchange competition and removing certain barriers

    of entry to several lines of telecommunications businesses.  A companion

    bill failed to pass in the United States Senate.  Legislation is expected

    to be considered in 1995 that, among other things, will promote

    competition and deregulation to a greater degree than the bills that

    passed the House in 1994.



       Competition to provide local exchange and access services is expected

    to initially affect large urban areas to a greater extent than rural,

    suburban and small urban areas such as those in which the Company's

    telephone operations are located.  The same expectation applies to

    emerging competitive wireless technologies and the development of new

    multimedia services.  The Company does not believe such competition is

    likely to materially affect it in the near term.  The Company further

    believes that it may benefit from having the opportunity to observe the

    effects of these developments in large urban markets.  The Company will

    continue to monitor the ongoing changes in regulation, competition and

    technology and consider which developments provide the most favorable

    opportunities for the Company to pursue.



    Other Matters



       The Company's regulated telephone operations are subject to the

    provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 ("SFAS

    71"), "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," under

    which the Company is required to account for the economic effects of the

    rate-making process, including the recognition of depreciation of plant

    and equipment over lives approved by regulators.  The ongoing

    applicability of SFAS 71 to the Company's regulated telephone operations

    is being monitored due to the




 changing regulatory, competitive and legislative environments.  Should the

 regulated operations of the Company no longer qualify for the application of

 SFAS 71 at some future date, the required accounting impact, the amount of

 which has not been determined, would result in a material, extraordinary,

 noncash charge against earnings.  See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated

 Financial Statements for additional information.



       The Company has certain obligations based on federal, state and local

    laws relating to the protection of the environment.  Costs of compliance

    through 1994 have not been material and the Company currently has no

    reason to believe that such costs will become material.





    Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data



                               Report of Management
                               --------------------


    To the Shareholders of

    Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc.:



       Management has prepared and is responsible for the Company's

    consolidated financial statements.  The consolidated financial statements

    have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting

    principles and necessarily include amounts determined using our best

    judgments and estimates with consideration given to materiality.



       The Company maintains internal control systems and related policies and

    procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that the accounting

    records accurately reflect business transactions and that the transactions

    are in accordance with management's authorization.  The design, monitoring

    and revision of the systems of internal control involve, among other

    things, our judgment with respect to the relative cost and expected

    benefits of specific control measures.  Additionally, the Company

    maintains an internal auditing function which independently evaluates the

    effectiveness of internal controls,  policies and procedures and formally

    reports on the adequacy and effectiveness thereof.



       The Company's consolidated financial statements have been audited by

    KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, independent certified public accountants, who have

    expressed their opinion with respect to the fairness of the consolidated

    financial statements.  Their audit was conducted in accordance with

    generally accepted auditing standards, which includes the consideration of

    the Company's internal controls to the extent necessary to form an

    independent opinion on the consolidated financial statements prepared by

    management.



       The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed of directors

    who are not officers or employees of the Company.  The Committee meets

    periodically with the independent certified public accountants, internal

    auditors and management.  The Committee considers the audit scope and

    discusses internal control, financial and reporting matters.  Both the

    independent and internal auditors have free access to the Committee.



    /s/  R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.



    R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.

    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer






                           Independent Auditors' Report
                           ----------------------------




    The Board of Directors

    Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc.:





       We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Century

    Telephone Enterprises, Inc. and subsidiaries as listed in Item 14a(i).  In

    connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we

    also have audited the financial statement schedule as listed in Item

    14a(ii).  These consolidated financial statements and financial statement

    schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our

    responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial

    statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.



       We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing

    standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to

    obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are

    free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test

    basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial

    statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles

    used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating

    the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits

    provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.



       In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above

    present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of

    Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,

    1994 and 1993, and the results of their operations and their cash flows

    for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1994, in

    conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  Also in our

    opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in

    relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,

    presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth

    therein.



       As discussed in notes 1 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements,

    the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement of

    Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," and

    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers'

    Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," in 1992.





    /s/  KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



    Shreveport, Louisiana

    February 6, 1995






                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                        Consolidated Statements of Income

                                              Year ended December 31,
    ======================================================================
                                           1994         1993         1992
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               (Dollars in thousands,
                                             except per share amounts)

    OPERATING REVENUES
         Telephone                     $ 389,438      348,485      297,510
         Mobile Communications           150,802       84,712       62,092
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
            Total revenues               540,240      433,197      359,602
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    OPERATING EXPENSES
         Cost of sales and
           operating expenses            276,375      231,855      187,076
         Depreciation and amortization    94,430       76,534       62,898
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
            Total expenses               370,805      308,389      249,974
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    OPERATING INCOME                     169,435      124,808      109,628
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
         Interest expense                (42,577)     (30,149)     (27,166)
         Income from unconsolidated
           cellular entities              15,698        6,626        1,692
         Gain on sales of assets          15,877        1,661        3,985
         Other income and expense          3,105        3,310        4,433
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
            Total other income (expense)  (7,897)     (18,552)     (17,056)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND
      CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN
      ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES              161,538      106,256       92,572
         Income tax expense               61,300       37,252       32,599
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT
      OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING
      PRINCIPLES                         100,238       69,004       59,973
         Cumulative effect of changes
           in accounting principles            -            -      (15,668)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    NET INCOME                         $ 100,238       69,004       44,305
    ======================================================================

    PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE :
         Before cumulative effect of
           changes in accounting
           principles                  $    1.88         1.35         1.23
         Cumulative effect of changes
           in accounting principles            -            -         (.32)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE         $    1.88         1.35          .91
    ======================================================================

    FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE :
         Before cumulative effect of
           changes in accounting
           principles                  $    1.80         1.32         1.22
         Cumulative effect of changes
           in accounting principles            -            -         (.31)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE   $    1.80         1.32          .91
    ======================================================================

    DIVIDENDS PER COMMON SHARE         $    .320         .310         .293
    ======================================================================

    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets

                                                              December 31,
    ==========================================================================
                                                          1994           1993
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

                                      ASSETS
    CURRENT ASSETS
       Cash and cash equivalents                     $    7,154          9,777
       Accounts receivable
         Customers, less allowance for doubtful
            accounts of $2,360 and $1,473                40,824         34,438
         Other                                           23,180         21,771
       Materials and supplies, at average cost            7,090          4,418
       Other                                              2,980          2,068
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
            Total current assets                         81,228         72,472
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    NET PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT                   947,131        827,776
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS
       Excess cost of net assets acquired,
         less accumulated amortization
         of $40,756 and $29,253                         441,436        297,158
       Other                                            173,458        121,984
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
            Total investments and other assets          614,894        419,142
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    TOTAL ASSETS                                     $1,643,253      1,319,390
    ==========================================================================


                              LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
    CURRENT LIABILITIES
       Current maturities of long-term debt          $   12,718         14,233
       Notes payable to banks                           158,000        165,700
       Accounts payable                                  52,331         49,506
       Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
         Salaries and benefits                           17,884         15,990
         Taxes                                           16,530          9,327
         Interest                                         8,243          6,476
         Other                                            9,237          5,162
       Advance billings and customer deposits            11,725          9,312
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
            Total current liabilities                   286,668        275,706
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    LONG-TERM DEBT                                      518,603        364,433
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER LIABILITIES              187,746        165,483
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
       Common stock, $1.00 par value, authorized
         100,000,000 shares, issued and outstanding
         53,574,361 and 51,294,705 shares                53,574         51,295
       Paid-in capital                                  319,235        262,294
       Retained earnings                                291,999        208,945
       Unearned ESOP shares                             (16,840)        (9,220)
       Preferred stock - non-redeemable                   2,268            454
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
            Total stockholders' equity                  650,236        513,768
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                      $1,643,253     1,319,390
    ==========================================================================

    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


                                                     Year ended December 31,
    =========================================================================
                                                    1994      1993      1992
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     (Dollars in thousands)
    OPERATING ACTIVITIES
      Net income                                $ 100,238    69,004    44,305
      Adjustments to reconcile net income to net
         cash provided by operating activities:
           Depreciation and amortization          103,591    85,209    70,367
           Cumulative effect of changes in
             accounting principles                      -         -    15,668
           Income from unconsolidated
             cellular entities                    (15,698)   (6,626)   (1,692)
           Deferred income taxes                    7,423     6,781    (1,427)
           Gain on sales of assets                (15,877)   (1,661)   (3,985)
           Changes in current assets and
                 current liabilities:
             Increase in accounts receivable       (1,581)   (7,026)   (2,307)
             Increase (decrease) in accounts
               payable                             (2,383)   11,024    11,694
             Increase (decrease) in other
               accrued taxes                        8,347    (1,476)    3,115
             Changes in other current assets and
               other current liabilities, net       6,543     2,135     7,434
           Increase in other noncurrent liabilities 7,469     8,536       148
           Other, net                               1,732       854     3,004
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Net cash provided by
                 operating activities             199,804   166,754   146,324
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    INVESTING ACTIVITIES
      Payments for property, plant and equipment (200,776) (204,229) (140,057)
      Acquisitions, net of cash acquired          (55,979)  (37,116) (134,999)
      Note receivable                             (25,000)        -         -
      Investments in unconsolidated
        cellular entities                          (5,516)   (3,605)   (2,161)
      Distributions from unconsolidated
        cellular entities                           5,969     1,587       395
      Proceeds from sales of assets                10,475         -     5,049
      Purchase of life insurance investment        (7,664)   (7,670)   (6,160)
      Other, net                                   (1,764)    2,361     6,771
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Net cash used in investing
                 activities                      (280,255) (248,672) (271,162)
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    FINANCING ACTIVITIES
      Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt    155,427    35,847   142,081
      Payments of long-term debt                  (59,792)  (32,564)  (25,246)
      Notes payable, net                           (7,700)   88,285    13,115
      Proceeds from issuance of common stock        4,814     3,529     8,776
      Cash dividends paid                         (17,184)  (15,735)  (14,119)
      Other, net                                    2,263     2,562    (1,636)
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Net cash provided by
                 financing activities              77,828    81,924   122,971
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND
      CASH EQUIVALENTS                             (2,623)        6    (1,867)
    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING
      OF YEAR                                       9,777     9,771    11,638
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR    $   7,154     9,777     9,771
    =========================================================================

    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity


    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.

                    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1994



    (1)      SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    Principles of consolidation - The consolidated financial statements of

    Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company")

    include the accounts of Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. ("Century")

    and its majority-owned subsidiaries and partnerships.  The Company's

    regulated telephone operations are subject to the provisions of Statement

    of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 ("SFAS 71"), "Accounting for the

    Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  Investments in cellular entities

    where the Company does not own a majority interest are accounted for using

    the equity method of accounting.



    Revenue recognition - Revenues are recognized when earned.  Certain of the

    Company's telephone subsidiaries participate in revenue pools with other

    telephone companies for interstate revenue and for certain intrastate

    revenue.  Such pools are funded by toll revenue and/or access charges

    within state jurisdictions and by access charges in the interstate market.

    Revenues earned through the various pooling processes are initially

    recorded based on the Company's estimates.



    Property, plant and equipment - Telephone plant is stated substantially at

    original cost of construction.  Normal retirements of telephone property

    are charged against accumulated depreciation, along with the costs of

    removal, less salvage, with no gain or loss recognized.  Renewals and

    betterments of plant and equipment are capitalized while repairs, as well

    as renewals of minor items, are charged to operating expense.

    Depreciation of telephone properties is provided on the straight line

    method, using class or overall composite rates acceptable to the

    regulatory authorities.



       Non-telephone property is stated at cost and, when sold or retired, a

    gain or loss is recognized.  Depreciation of such property is provided on

    the straight line method over estimated service lives ranging from three

    to thirty years.



    Excess cost of net assets acquired - The excess cost of net assets

    acquired of substantially all of the Company's acquisitions accounted for

    as purchases (goodwill) is being amortized over forty years.  The carrying

    value of goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually, or

    whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying

    value may not be recoverable, by assessing the recoverability of such

    carrying value through estimated undiscounted future net cash flows.




    Affiliated transactions - Certain service subsidiaries of Century provide

    installation and maintenance services, materials and supplies, and

    managerial, technical and accounting services to subsidiaries.  In

    addition, Century provides and bills management services to subsidiaries

    and in certain instances makes interest bearing advances to finance

    construction of plant and purchases of equipment.  These purchases are

    recorded by the Company's telephone subsidiaries at their cost to the

    extent permitted by regulatory authorities.  Intercompany profit on

    transactions with regulated affiliates is limited to a reasonable return

    on investment and has not been eliminated.  Intercompany profit on

    transactions with nonregulated affiliates has been eliminated.



    Income taxes - Century files a consolidated federal income tax return with

    its eligible subsidiaries.  The Company uses the asset and liability

    method of accounting for income taxes under which deferred tax assets and

    liabilities are established for the future tax consequences attributable

    to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets

    and liabilities and their respective tax bases.  Investment tax credits

    related to telephone plant have been deferred and are being amortized as a

    reduction of federal income tax expense over the estimated useful lives of

    the assets giving rise to the credits.



       The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109

    ("SFAS 109"), "Accounting For Income Taxes," as of January 1, 1992 and

    reported an unfavorable $913,000 cumulative effect of the change in the

    method of accounting for income taxes in the 1992 consolidated statement

    of income.



    Earnings per share - Primary earnings per share amounts are determined on

    the basis of the weighted average number of common shares and common stock

    equivalents outstanding during the year.  The number of shares used in

    computing primary earnings per share was 53.4 million in 1994, 51.2

    million in 1993, and 48.5 million in 1992.



       Fully diluted earnings per share amounts give further effect to

    convertible securities, primarily Century's convertible debentures, which

    are not common stock equivalents.  For the computation of fully diluted

    earnings per share for 1992, the debentures were excluded as their

    inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.  The number of shares used in

    computing fully diluted earnings per share was 58.1 million, 55.9 million

    and 48.7 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  The number of

    shares used in computing fully diluted earnings per share before the

    cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles in 1992 was 52.8

    million.



    Cash equivalents - The Company considers short-term investments with a

    maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash

    equivalents.





    Reclassifications - Certain amounts previously reported for prior years

    have been reclassified to conform with the 1994 presentation.



    (2)      PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

       Net property, plant and equipment at December 31, 1994 and 1993 was

    composed of the following:


    December 31,                                           1994          1993
    ==========================================================================
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

    Telephone, at original cost
       Cable and wire                                 $  580,012       512,240
       Central office                                    310,684       281,123
       General support                                    91,722        85,303
       Information origination/termination                21,478        36,925
       Construction in progress                           67,244        53,838
       Other                                               5,356        10,020
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       1,076,496       979,449
       Accumulated depreciation                         (295,255)     (288,479)
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         781,241       690,970
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Mobile Communications, at cost
       Cell site                                         104,553        81,528
       General support                                    34,235        22,974
       Pagers                                                  -         3,166
       Construction in progress                           12,602         2,192
       Other                                                 915         3,392
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         152,305       113,252
       Accumulated depreciation                          (38,552)      (27,736)
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         113,753        85,516
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Other, at cost
       General support                                    81,932        77,011
       Other                                               3,474           726
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          85,406        77,737
       Accumulated depreciation                          (33,269)      (26,447)
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          52,137        51,290
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net property, plant and equipment                 $  947,131       827,776
    ==========================================================================


       Depreciation expense was $92.1 million, $78.0 million and $64.3 million

    in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  The composite depreciation rate for

    telephone properties was 7.1%, 7.1% and 6.6% for 1994, 1993 and 1992,

    respectively.





    (3)      LONG-TERM DEBT

       Long-term debt at December 31, 1994 and 1993 was composed of the

    following:



    December 31,                                            1994         1993
    ==========================================================================
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

    Century
       6.0% convertible debentures, due 2007            $ 115,000      115,000
       8.25% senior notes, due 2024                       100,000            -
       9.4%* senior notes, due through 2004                65,000       69,600
       7.75% senior notes, due 2004                        50,000            -
       7.2%* Employee Stock Ownership
          Plan commitment, due in installments
          through 2004                                     16,840        9,220
       10.7%* notes, due in installments through 2006         975        1,245
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Total Century                                347,815      195,065
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Subsidiaries
       First mortgage debt
          5.8%* notes, payable to agencies of the
             United States government and cooperative
             lending associations, due in
             installments through 2026                    166,175      158,998
          7.4%* bonds, due in installments through 2002     7,094       11,699
       Other debt
          9.0%* notes, due in installments through 2020     8,632        8,633
          7.8%* capital lease obligations, due in
             installments through 1997                      1,605        4,271
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Total subsidiaries                           183,506      183,601
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total long-term debt                                  531,321      378,666
    Less current maturities                                12,718       14,233
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Long-term debt, excluding current maturities        $ 518,603      364,433
    ==========================================================================

    * weighted average interest rate at December 31, 1994


       The approximate annual debt maturities (including sinking fund

    requirements) for the five years subsequent to December 31, 1994 are as

    follows: 1995 - $12.7 million; 1996 - $43.7 million; 1997 - $13.6 million;

    1998 - $11.4 million; and 1999 - $11.0 million.



       The 6% convertible debentures are convertible into Century common stock

    at a conversion price of $25.33 per share and may be redeemed by Century

    on or after February 1, 1995 subject to a declining premium schedule.  As

    discussed in Note 20, Century has called the debentures for redemption at

    a redemption price of 104.2% of principal.



      

       During the first quarter of 1994, Century filed a shelf registration

    statement registering $400.0 million of senior unsecured debt securities

    under which, in May 1994, Century issued $50.0 million of 10-year, 7.75%

    senior notes and $100.0 million of 30-year, 8.25% senior notes.  The

    proceeds were used to reduce certain of the Company's short-term bank

    indebtedness.  Interest payments are due semi-annually and principal

    payments are due in 2004 and 2024 upon maturity of the 10-year and 30-year

    notes, respectively.  The 30-year notes may be redeemed by Century on or

    after May 1, 2004 subject to a premium schedule which declines from

    103.62% as of May 1, 2004 to 100% as of May 1, 2014.



       The Company's loan agreements contain various restrictions, among which

    are limitations regarding issuance of additional debt, payment of cash

    dividends, reacquisition of the Company's capital stock and other matters.

    At December 31, 1994, all of the consolidated retained earnings reflected

    on the balance sheet was available for the declaration of dividends.



       The transfer of funds from certain consolidated subsidiaries to Century

    is restricted by various loan agreements.  Subsidiaries which have loans

    from government agencies and cooperative lending associations, or have

    issued first mortgage bonds, generally may not loan or advance any funds

    to Century, but may pay dividends if certain financial ratios are met.  At

    December 31, 1994, restricted net assets of subsidiaries were $140.1

    million.  Subsidiaries' retained earnings in excess of amounts restricted

    by debt covenants totaled $355.2 million.



       Substantially all of the Company's telephone property, plant and

    equipment is pledged to secure the long-term debt of subsidiaries.



       At December 31, 1994 and 1993, Century had in place certain long-term

    credit facilities more fully discussed in Note 5.  Borrowings totaling

    $96.5 million under such facilities at December 31, 1993 which were

    classified as "Long-term debt" in previously issued financial statements

    have been reclassified to "Notes payable to banks" due to subjective

    acceleration clauses included in the facilities.



       Century's telephone subsidiaries had approximately $124.0 million in

    commitments for long-term financing from the Rural Utilities Service

    available at December 31, 1994.  Approximately $93.1 million of additional

    borrowings, of which $28.0 million were under uncommitted facilities, were

    available to the Company through lines of credit with various banks.  In

    addition, Century had $250.0 million of senior unsecured debt securities

    under the 1994 shelf registration statement which had not been issued.





    (4)      INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS

       Investments and other assets at December 31, 1994 and 1993 were
    composed of the following:

    December 31,                                        1994            1993
    =========================================================================
                                                       (Dollars in thousands)

    Excess cost of net assets acquired,
       less accumulated amortization                $ 441,436          297,158
    Investments in unconsolidated cellular entities    59,360           41,983
    Cash surrender value of life insurance contracts   47,637           38,642
    Note receivable, less current portion              24,167                -
    Marketable equity securities                        8,478            8,478
    Other                                              33,816           32,881
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    $ 614,894          419,142
    ==========================================================================

       Goodwill amortization of $10.6 million, $6.2 million and $5.0 million

    for 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, is included in "Depreciation and

    amortization."


       In 1994 Century loaned an unaffiliated telephone holding company $25.0

    million.  The loan bears interest at prime plus 1.5%; interest is due

    quarterly.  Quarterly principal payments are scheduled to begin in August

    1995 with the unpaid balance becoming due in May 1998.  The loan is

    collateralized by security interests in the capital stock of the holding

    company and a subsidiary and by a guaranty from such company's principal

    stockholder.  In connection with the loan, Century obtained first refusal

    rights to acquire certain properties under various specified circumstances.

    For additional information, see the second paragraph of Management's

    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -

    Liquidity and Capital Resources - Investing Activities.


    (5)      REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITIES

       At December 31, 1994 and 1993, Century had in place certain long-term

    credit facilities, including a $50.0 million line of credit (two-year

    revolver which expires in January 1996, convertible to a five-year term

    loan) with interest at the rate chosen by the Company based on a number of

    interest rate options and a $55.0 million line of credit (multi-year

    revolving credit facility which expires in January 1998) with similar

    interest rate options.  Borrowings under such facilities are included in

    "Notes payable to banks" on the accompanying balance sheets.  The

    facilities can be withdrawn by the lenders only upon an event of default as

    defined in the respective agreements.  The weighted average interest rate

    for notes payable to banks was 6.5% and 3.9% as of December 31, 1994 and

    1993, respectively.  See Note 3 for additional information.





    (6)      STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

    Common stock - At December 31, 1994, unissued shares of Century common

    stock were reserved as follows:


                                                       Number of shares
    ===================================================================
                                                        (In thousands)
    Conversion of convertible debentures                     4,540
    Stock option plans                                       2,781
    Acquisitions                                             1,178
    Employee stock purchase plan                               506
    Dividend reinvestment plan                                 291
    Conversion of convertible preferred stock                  193
    Other employee benefit plans                             1,262
    -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            10,751
    ===================================================================

       Under Century's Articles of Incorporation each share of common stock

    beneficially owned continuously by the same person since May 30, 1987

    generally entitles the holder thereof to ten votes per share.  All other

    shares entitle the holder to one vote per share.  At December 31, 1994,

    8.9 million shares of common stock were entitled to ten votes per share.



    Preferred stock - As of December 31, 1994, Century had 2.0 million shares

    of preferred stock, $25 par value per share, authorized.  At December 31,

    1994 and 1993 there were 90,707 and 18,162, respectively, shares of

    outstanding preferred stock.  Holders of currently outstanding Century

    preferred stock are entitled to (i) receive cumulative dividends, (ii)

    receive preferential distributions equal to $25 per share plus unpaid

    dividends upon Century's liquidation and (iii) vote as a single class with

    the common stock.  At December 31, 1994 and 1993, 4,260 shares of Century

    preferred stock were redeemable at the option of the Company.



    Shareholders' Rights Plan - In 1986 the Board of Directors declared a

    dividend of one preferred stock purchase right for each common share

    outstanding or that shall become outstanding prior to November 26, 1996.

    With certain exceptions, if a person or group acquires beneficial

    ownership of 15% or more of Century common shares or commences a tender or

    exchange offer which upon consummation would result in ownership of 30% or

    more of the common shares, each right held by shareholders, other than

    such person or group, may be exercised to buy (i) eight twenty-sevenths of

    one one-hundredth of a share of Series AA Junior Participating Preferred

    Stock of Century at a price of $85 per one one-hundredth of a share or

    (ii) in lieu thereof, subject to certain restrictions, the number of

    shares of Century common stock having a market value equal to two times

    such purchase price.  The rights, which do not have voting rights, expire

    on November 27, 1996 and may be redeemed by Century at a price of $.05 per

    right at any time before they become exercisable.  If, at any time the

    rights are exercisable, Century is a party to a merger or other business

    combination or certain other transactions occur, each right will entitle

    its holder to purchase at the exercise price of the right a number of

    shares of common stock of the surviving company having a fair market value

    of two times the exercise price of the right.  




    At December 31, 1994, 162,000 shares of Series AA Junior Participating
   
    Preferred Stock were reserved for issuance under the Rights Plan.



    (7)      DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER LIABILITIES

       Deferred credits and other liabilities at December 31, 1994 and 1993

    were composed of the following:


    December 31,                                            1994         1993
    ==========================================================================
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

    Deferred federal and state income taxes              $ 73,966       60,122
    Accrued postretirement benefit costs                   41,126       36,642
    Regulatory liability - income taxes                    31,278       36,111
    Minority interest                                      22,585       10,504
    Deferred investment tax credits                         8,175       10,431
    Other                                                  10,616       11,673
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         $187,746      165,483
    ==========================================================================


    (8)      INCOME TAXES

       Income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

    was allocated as follows:


    Year ended December 31,                            1994     1993     1992
    ==========================================================================
                                                       (Dollars in thousands)
    Income before cumulative effect of
       changes in accounting principles             $ 61,300   37,252   32,599
    Cumulative effect of changes in
       accounting principles                               -        -   (8,272)
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net tax expense in the consolidated
       statements of income                           61,300   37,252   24,327
    Stockholders' equity, primarily for compensation
       expense for tax purposes in excess of amounts
       recognized for financial reporting purposes    (1,243)    (800)  (2,885)
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    $ 60,057   36,452   21,442
    ==========================================================================

       The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to significant
    portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at
    December 31, 1994 and 1993 were as follows:

    December 31,                                            1994        1993
    =========================================================================
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

    Deferred tax assets:
       Postretirement benefit costs                     $  12,908      10,809
       Net operating loss carryforwards of
          an acquired subsidiary                           10,283           -
       Regulatory liability                                10,948      12,011
       Deferred compensation                                2,676       2,522
       Deferred investment tax credits                      2,658       3,465
       Other employee benefits                              4,205       3,842
       Other                                                2,556         630
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total gross deferred tax assets                  46,234      33,279
          Less valuation allowance                        (10,283)          -
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Net deferred tax assets                          35,951      33,279
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------





    Deferred tax liabilities:
       Property, plant and equipment, primarily due
          to depreciation differences                     (97,073)    (84,159)
       Intercompany profits                                (3,497)     (3,236)
       Other                                               (9,347)     (6,006)
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total gross deferred tax liabilities           (109,917)    (93,401)
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net deferred tax liability                           $(73,966)    (60,122)
    =========================================================================

       As a result of the acquisition of Celutel, Inc. ("Celutel") (see Note

    16) the Company has $29.4 million of net operating loss carryforwards at

    December 31, 1994 which relate to various entities acquired.  The yearly

    utilization of such loss carryforwards is limited to separate entity

    taxable income; the loss carryforwards are further limited by certain

    Internal Revenue Code regulations.  Subsequently recognized tax benefits

    applicable to the net operating loss carryforwards will reduce excess cost

    of net assets acquired.  The net operating loss carryforwards expire

    between 2002 and 2008.



       Income tax expense attributable to income before cumulative effect of

    changes in accounting principles was as follows:

    Year ended December 31,                         1994      1993      1992
    =========================================================================
                                                     (Dollars in thousands)
    Federal
       Current                                   $ 47,969    26,409    29,100
       Deferred                                     5,703     6,133    (1,742)
    State
       Current                                      5,908     4,062     4,926
       Deferred                                     1,720       648       315
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 $ 61,300    37,252    32,599
    =========================================================================

       The following is a reconciliation from the statutory federal income tax
    rate to the Company's effective income tax rate:

    Year ended December 31,                           1994      1993     1992
    ==========================================================================
                                                  (Percentage of pre-tax income)

    Statutory federal income tax rate                 35.0%     35.0     34.0
    State income taxes, net of federal
       income tax benefit                              3.0       2.9      3.7
    Amortization of nondeductible excess
       cost of net assets acquired                     2.1       1.2      2.0
    Amortization of investment tax credits            (1.4)     (2.0)    (2.3)
    Amortization of regulatory liability              (1.2)     (1.8)    (2.6)
    Other, net                                          .4       (.2)      .4
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Effective income tax rate                         37.9%     35.1     35.2
    ==========================================================================





    (9)      POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

       The Company sponsors defined benefit health care plans that provide

    postretirement medical, life and dental benefits to substantially all

    retired full-time employees.



       The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106

    ("SFAS 106"), "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other

    Than Pensions," as of January 1, 1992 and elected immediate recognition of

    the transition obligation.  In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 71

    the Company deferred $3.5 million of the $27.4 million transition

    obligation as a regulatory asset; such costs are being expensed in

    connection with recovery through the rate-making process.  The remaining

    $23.9 million, net of tax benefits which aggregated $9.2 million, was

    reported as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.



       Net periodic postretirement benefit cost for 1994, 1993 and 1992

    included the following components:


    Year ended December 31,                          1994      1993      1992
    ==========================================================================
                                                      (Dollars in thousands)

    Service cost                                   $ 2,007     1,640     1,040
    Interest cost                                    3,473     3,008     2,521
    Amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses      447       365         -
    Amortization of unrecognized prior service cost    121        86         -
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net periodic postretirement benefit cost       $ 6,048     5,099     3,561
    ==========================================================================

       The following table sets forth the amounts recognized as liabilities

    for postretirement benefits in the Company's consolidated balance sheets

    at December 31, 1994 and 1993.



    December 31,                                             1994        1993
    ==========================================================================
                                                          (Dollars in thousands)

    Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:
       Retirees and retirees' dependents                 $  19,079      20,451
       Fully eligible active plan participants               8,300       6,753
       Other active plan participants                       16,430      18,555
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation           43,809      45,759
    Plan assets                                                  -           -
    Unrecognized prior service cost                         (1,546)     (1,177)
    Unrecognized net gain (loss)                               173      (6,630)
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Accrued postretirement benefit costs                 $  42,436      37,952
    ==========================================================================

       For calculation purposes, a 7% health care cost rate was assumed for

    1995 through 1997; the rate was assumed to decrease to 6% thereafter.  If

    the assumed health care cost trend rate had been increased by one

    percentage point in each year, the accumulated postretirement benefit

    obligation as of December 31, 1994 would have increased $7.5 million and

    the net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year ended December

    31, 1994 would have increased $694,000.




       The discount rates used in determining the accumulated postretirement

    benefit obligation as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 were 8.5% and 7%,

    respectively.



       In the first quarter of 1994 the Company adopted Statement of Financial

    Accounting Standards No. 112 ("SFAS 112"), "Employers' Accounting for

    Postemployment Benefits."  Liabilities for postemployment benefits in the

    consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 1993 were not materially

    different than those required by SFAS 112; therefore, no cumulative effect

    of change in accounting principle was recorded upon adoption of SFAS 112.


    (10)     STOCK OPTION AND INCENTIVE PROGRAMS

       Century currently has two incentive compensation programs which allow

    the Board of Directors, through the Compensation Committee, to grant

    incentives to employees in any one or a combination of the following

    forms:  incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options; stock

    awards; restricted stock; performance shares; and cash awards.



       Stock option transactions during 1992, 1993 and 1994 were as follows:


                                                     Number          Average
                                                   of options         price
    ========================================================================

    Outstanding December 31, 1991                  1,988,628         $ 14.31
       Exercised                                    (516,398)           8.97
       Granted at market price                       960,639           27.67
    --------------------------------------------------------    
    Outstanding December 31, 1992                  2,432,869           20.72
       Exercised                                     (51,120)           9.90
    --------------------------------------------------------
    Outstanding December 31, 1993                  2,381,749           20.96
       Exercised                                    (139,282)          11.10
       Granted at market price                        31,000           26.25
    --------------------------------------------------------
    Outstanding December 31, 1994                  2,273,467           21.63
    ========================================================
    Exercisable December 31, 1993                  2,135,265           20.89
    ========================================================
    Exercisable December 31, 1994                  2,143,873           21.57
    ========================================================

       All of the options expire ten years after the date of grant.  As of

    December 31, 1994, Century has reserved 2.8 million shares of common stock

    which may be issued under the two incentive compensation programs.





    (11)     FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

       The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair

    values of certain of the Company's financial instruments at December 31,

    1994 and 1993.

                                                         Carrying     Fair
                                                          amount      value
    ===========================================================================
                                                       (Dollars in thousands)
    December 31, 1994
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Financial assets:
       Investments
          Note receivable (including current portion)   $ 25,000     25,000 (1)
          Marketable equity securities                  $  8,478     10,127 (2)
          Other                                         $  9,069      9,069 (1)

    Financial liabilities:
       Long-term debt (including current maturities)    $531,321    520,151 (3)
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    December 31, 1993
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Financial assets:
       Investments
          Marketable equity securities                  $  8,478     11,444 (2)
          Other                                         $  9,039      9,039 (1)

    Financial liabilities:
       Long-term debt (including current maturities)    $378,666    406,612 (3)
    ===========================================================================

    (1) Fair value was estimated by the Company.
    (2) Fair value was based on quoted market prices.
    (3) Fair value was estimated by discounting the scheduled payment streams
          to present value based upon rates currently offered to the Company
          for similar debt.

    Cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and notes

    payable to banks - The carrying amount approximates the fair value due to

    the short maturity of these instruments.



    (12)     SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW DISCLOSURES


       The Company paid interest of $40.8 million, $30.1 million and $24.0

    million during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  Income taxes paid were

    $41.3 million in 1994, $37.1 million in 1993, and $30.5 million in 1992.


       Century has consummated the acquisition of various telephone and

    cellular operations, along with certain other assets, during the three

    years ended December 31, 1994.  In connection with these acquisitions, the

    following assets were acquired, liabilities assumed and common and

    preferred stock issued:





    Year ended December 31,                        1994       1993       1992
    ==========================================================================
                                                     (Dollars in thousands)

    Property, plant and equipment              $  11,301     33,020     67,514
    Excess cost of net assets acquired           152,239     85,251    113,913
    Investment in unconsolidated
       cellular entities                               -      7,508          -
    Long-term debt                               (46,478)   (18,609)   (20,271)
    Deferred credits and other liabilities        (5,706)    (7,648)    (9,652)
    Other assets and liabilities, excluding cash
       and cash equivalents                       (1,191)     5,766      4,970
    Common stock issued                          (52,311)   (68,172)   (21,475)
    Preferred stock issued                        (1,875)         -          -
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Decrease in cash                           $  55,979     37,116    134,999
    ==========================================================================

       Century has consummated the disposition of various telephone and

    cellular operations, along with certain other assets, during the three

    years ended December 31, 1994.  In connection with these dispositions, the

    following assets were sold, liabilities eliminated, assets received and

    gain recognized:


    Year ended December 31,                        1994       1993       1992
    ==========================================================================
                                                     (Dollars in thousands)

    Property, plant and equipment              $  (2,673)         -     (3,231)
    Excess cost of net assets acquired            (3,976)         -     (4,772)
    Long-term debt                                     -          -      1,243
    Other assets and liabilities, excluding cash
       and cash equivalents                          993        191     (1,312)
    Assets of cellular system                     11,058          -          -
    Marketable equity securities                       -      1,470      7,008
    Gain on sales of assets                      (15,877)    (1,661)    (3,985)
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Increase in cash                           $ (10,475)         -     (5,049)
    ==========================================================================


    (13)     BUSINESS SEGMENTS

       The Company currently operates in two principal segments - traditional

    telephone services and mobile communications services.  The Company's

    telephone operations are conducted in rural, suburban and small urban

    communities in 14 states.  Approximately 82% of the Company's telephone

    access lines are in Wisconsin, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio and Arkansas.

    The Company's cellular customers are located primarily in Louisiana,

    Michigan, Mississippi and Texas.


       The effect of the change in accounting principle related to accounting

    for postretirement benefits reduced 1992 operating income of the telephone

    operations and mobile communications operations by $1.7 million and

    $250,000, respectively.  Other accounts receivable are primarily amounts

    due from various long distance carriers, principally AT&T, and several

    large local exchange operating companies.




                                                            Mobile
                                            Telephone   Communications  Total
    ==========================================================================
                                                  (Dollars in thousands)
    Year ended December 31, 1994
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Operating revenues                      $ 389,438      150,802     540,240
    Depreciation and amortization           $  73,175       21,255      94,430
    Operating income                        $ 137,992       31,443     169,435

    Year ended December 31, 1993
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Operating revenues                      $ 348,485       84,712     433,197
    Depreciation and amortization           $  65,175       11,359      76,534
    Operating income                        $ 114,902        9,906     124,808

    Year ended December 31, 1992
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Operating revenues                      $ 297,510       62,092     359,602
    Depreciation and amortization           $  53,927        8,971      62,898
    Operating income                        $ 103,672        5,956     109,628
    ==========================================================================


    Year ended December 31,                     1994         1993        1992
    ==========================================================================
                                                    (Dollars in thousands)

    Operating income                         $169,435      124,808     109,628
    Interest expense                          (42,577)     (30,149)    (27,166)
    Income from unconsolidated
       cellular entities                       15,698        6,626       1,692
    Gain on sales of assets                    15,877        1,661       3,985
    Other income and expense                    3,105        3,310       4,433
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Income before income taxes and
       cumulative effect of changes
       in accounting principles              $161,538      106,256      92,572
    ==========================================================================

    Income before income taxes               $161,538      106,256      76,904
    ==========================================================================

    Capital expenditures
       Telephone                             $152,336      131,180     108,974
       Mobile Communications                 $ 39,937       56,092      10,904
    ==========================================================================

    Identifiable assets
       Telephone                           $1,053,950      969,388     803,901
       Mobile Communications                  430,777      224,913     141,522
       General corporate                       88,305       62,827      54,733
       Other                                   70,221       62,262      40,331
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total assets                     $1,643,253    1,319,390   1,040,487
    ==========================================================================


    (14)     ACCOUNTING FOR THE EFFECTS OF REGULATION

       The Company's regulated telephone operations are subject to the

    provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 ("SFAS

    71"), "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."

    Actions of a regulator can provide reasonable assurance of the existence

    of an asset, reduce or eliminate the




                                           value of an asset and impose a

    liability on a regulated enterprise.  SFAS 71 requires that, if a conflict

    exists between the application of SFAS 71 and another authoritative

    pronouncement, SFAS 71 is to be followed because other authoritative

    pronouncements do not consider the economic effects of the rate-making

    process.  Therefore, regulatory assets and liabilities established by the

    actions of a regulator are required to be recorded, and, accordingly,

    reflected in the balance sheet of an entity subject to SFAS 71.



       The Company's consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 1994

    included regulatory assets of approximately $9.2 million and regulatory

    liabilities of approximately $31.3 million exclusive of (i) property,

    plant and equipment, (ii) accumulated depreciation and (iii) deferred

    income taxes and deferred investment tax credits associated with

    regulatory assets and liabilities.  The $9.2 million of regulatory assets

    included assets established in connection with the adoption of SFAS 106

    ($2.4 million) and SFAS 109 ($3.7 million), extraordinary retirements

    ($542,000), compensated absences ($607,000) and deferred financing costs

    ($2.0 million).  The $31.3 million of regulatory liabilities was

    established in connection with the adoption of SFAS 109.  Net deferred

    income tax assets related to the regulatory assets and liabilities

    quantified above were $12.2 million.



       Property, plant and equipment of the Company's regulated telephone

    operations has been depreciated using generally the straight line method

    over lives approved by regulators.  Such depreciable lives have generally

    exceeded the depreciable lives used by nonregulated entities.  In

    addition, in accordance with regulatory accounting, retirements of

    regulated telephone property have been charged to accumulated

    depreciation, along with the costs of removal, less salvage, with no gain

    or loss recognized.  These regulatory accounting policies have resulted in

    accumulated depreciation being significantly less than if the Company's

    telephone operations had not been regulated.



       Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 101 ("SFAS 101"),

    "Regulated Enterprises - Accounting for the Discontinuance of Application

    of FASB Statement No. 71," specifies the accounting required when an

    enterprise ceases to meet the criteria for application of SFAS 71.  SFAS

    101 requires the elimination of the effects of any actions of regulators

    that have been recognized as assets and liabilities in accordance with

    SFAS 71 but would not have been recognized as assets and liabilities by

    enterprises in general.  SFAS 101 further provides that the carrying

    amounts of property, plant and equipment are to be adjusted only to the

    extent the assets are impaired and that impairment shall be judged in the

    same manner as for enterprises in general. The Company has not determined

    (i) the amount of additional accumulated depreciation which would have to

    be recorded nor (ii) the amount, if any, by which property, plant and

    equipment would be impaired if the Company's regulated operations cease to

    become subject to SFAS 71.  In addition, deferred tax liabilities and

    deferred investment tax credits would be impacted based on the change in

    the temporary differences for property, plant and equipment and

    accumulated depreciation.




       The ongoing applicability of SFAS 71 to the Company's regulated

    telephone operations is being monitored due to the changing regulatory,

    competitive and legislative environments.  Should the regulated operations

    of the Company no longer qualify for the application of SFAS 71 at some

    future date, the net adjustments required would result in a material,

    extraordinary, noncash charge against earnings.  Telephone subsidiaries

    accounting and reporting for regulatory purposes would not be affected by

    the discontinued application of SFAS 71.



    (15)     RETIREMENT AND SAVINGS PLANS

       Century sponsors an Outside Directors' Retirement Plan and a

    Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan to provide directors and officers,

    respectively, with supplemental retirement, death and disability benefits.

    In addition, the bargaining unit employees of a subsidiary are provided

    benefits under a defined benefit pension plan.  At December 31, 1994 and

    1993, the combined accumulated benefit obligation of the plans,

    substantially all of which was vested, aggregated $15.2 million and $16.3

    million, respectively.  The projected benefit obligation in excess of plan

    assets was $2.7 million and $7.4 million as of December 31, 1994 and 1993,

    respectively.  During 1994 and 1993 Century funded $3.0 million and

    $340,000, respectively, of the obligations of the plans.  Prepaid pension

    cost was $525,000 at December 31, 1994; accrued pension cost was $1.6

    million at December 31, 1993.  The net periodic pension cost for 1994,

    1993 and 1992 was $1.2 million, $1.1 million and $930,000, respectively.

    Discount rates used in determining the year end liabilities were 8.5% for

    1994 and ranged from 7.0% to 7.25% for 1993.



       Century sponsors an Employee Stock Bonus Plan ("ESBP") and an Employee

    Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP").  These plans cover most employees with one

    year of service with the Company and are funded by Company contributions

    determined annually by the Board of Directors.   Century also sponsors a

    qualified profit sharing plan pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal

    Revenue Code (the "401(k) Plan") which is available to substantially all

    employees of the Company.  The Company's matching contributions to the

    401(k) Plan for 1994, 1993 and 1992 were $2.4 million, $2.0 million and

    $1.4 million, respectively.



       The Company recorded contributions related to the ESBP in the amount of

    $2.3 million, $1.8 million and $1.1 million during 1994, 1993 and 1992,

    respectively.  At December 31, 1994, the ESBP owned 4.4 million shares of

    Century common stock.



       The Company's contributions to the ESOP approximate the ESOP's debt

    service less dividends received by the ESOP applicable to unallocated

    shares.  The ESOP shares initially were pledged as collateral for its

    debt.  As the debt is repaid, shares are released from collateral based on

    the percentage of principal payment to outstanding debt before applying

    the principal payment.  As of each year end, such released shares are

    allocated to active employees.




       The ESOP had outstanding debt of $7.3 million at December 31, 1994

    which was applicable to shares purchased prior to 1993.  Interest incurred

    by the ESOP on debt applicable to such shares was $571,000, $895,000 and

    $1.1 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  The Company

    contributed and expensed $1.9 million, $2.6 million and $2.4 million

    during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, with respect to such shares.

    Dividends on unallocated ESOP shares used for debt service by the ESOP

    were $288,000 in 1994, $335,000 in 1993, and $375,000 in 1992.  ESOP

    shares as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 which were purchased prior to 1993

    were as follows:

                                                       1994           1993
    =======================================================================

    Allocated shares                               1,164,290        996,331

    Unreleased shares                                706,998        882,490
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   1,871,288      1,878,821
    =======================================================================


       The Company accounts for shares purchased subsequent to December 31,

    1992 in accordance with Statement of Position 93-6 ("SOP 93-6").

    Accordingly, as shares are released from collateral, the Company reports

    compensation expense equal to the current market price of the shares and

    the shares become outstanding for earnings per share computations.

    Dividends on allocated ESOP shares are recorded as a reduction of retained

    earnings; dividends on unallocated ESOP shares are recorded as a reduction

    of debt.  ESOP compensation expense for 1994 applicable to shares

    purchased subsequent to 1992 was $605,000.  The fair value of unreleased

    ESOP shares accounted for under SOP 93-6 was $11.7 million at December 31,

    1994.  ESOP shares purchased subsequent to 1992 totaled 416,850, of which

    20,842 were allocated and 396,008 were unreleased as of December 31, 1994.



    (16)     MAJOR ACQUISITIONS

       In February 1994 the Company acquired Celutel for approximately $106.0

    million in a stock and cash transaction accounted for as a purchase.

    Approximately $56.0 million of the purchase price was paid in cash, with

    the remainder paid through the issuance of approximately 1.9 million

    shares of Century common stock.  Celutel currently provides cellular

    service to approximately 35,000 customers in five non-wireline provider

    systems in Metropolitan Statistical Areas ("MSAs") in Mississippi and

    Texas.



       In April 1993 the Company acquired San Marcos Telephone Company, Inc.

    ("SMTC") in a stock and cash transaction and acquired SM Telecorp, Inc.,

    an affiliate of SMTC, for cash. The total acquisition price for both

    companies approximated $100.0 million (based on Century's common stock

    price of $31-7/8 on the date of acquisition), the stock portion of which

    was represented by approximately 2.2 million shares of Century common

    stock.  As a result of the acquisitions, which were accounted for as

    purchases, the Company acquired approximately 22,500 telephone access

    lines in and around San Marcos, Texas, along with a 35% ownership





    interest in the Austin, Texas, MSA wireline cellular market and a 9.6%

    interest in the Texas Rural Service Area ("RSA") #16 wireline cellular

    market.



       In April 1992 the Company acquired Central Telephone Company of Ohio

    ("Central") for $120.0 million and changed Central's name to Century

    Telephone of Ohio, Inc. ("Ohio").  Ohio is a local exchange telephone

    company with approximately 70,400 access lines located in suburbs of

    Cleveland, Ohio.  In December 1992 the company acquired 100% of the

    Alexandria, Louisiana, MSA wireline cellular market for $18.2 million.



       The following pro forma information represents the consolidated results

    of operations of the Company as if each major acquisition had been

    combined with the Company as of January 1 of (i) the year in which the

    acquisition was consummated and (ii) the year prior to the acquisition.



    Year ended December 31,                          1994      1993      1992
    ==========================================================================
                                                      (Dollars in thousands,
                                                     except per share amounts)
                                                           (unaudited)


    Operating revenues                            $543,768   467,862   395,033

    Income before cumulative effect of

       changes in accounting principles           $ 98,958    62,516    58,324

    Net income                                    $ 98,958    62,516    42,656

    Fully diluted earnings per share before

       cumulative effect of changes in

       accounting principles                       $  1.77      1.15      1.12

    Fully diluted earnings per share               $  1.77      1.15       .85
    ==========================================================================


       The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of the

    operating results that would have occured if each major acquisition had

    been consummated as of January 1 of each respective period, nor is it

    necessarily indicative of future operating results.  The actual results of

    operations of an acquired company are included in the Company's

    consolidated financial statements only from the date of acquisition.



    (17)     SALES OF ASSETS

       In 1994 the Company sold the assets comprising an RSA cellular system

    in Minnesota; the Company received (i) the assets of the Pine Bluff,

    Arkansas, MSA wireline cellular system and (ii) $10.5 million cash.  The

    transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain of $14.7 million ($8.5 million

    after-tax).  The Company also sold the assets of its paging operations

    during 1994 and recognized a gain of $1.2 million ($756,000 after-tax).




       During 1993 the Company sold a minority investment in a telephone

    company which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $1.7 million ($1.1 million

    after-tax).



       During 1992 the Company sold (i) two telephone subsidiaries which

    served approximately 2,000 access lines, (ii) its minority interest in an

    MSA cellular partnership and its minority interest in an RSA cellular

    partnership, and (iii) its 100% interest in an RSA cellular market.  The

    sales prices totaled $12.2 million and the transactions resulted in an

    aggregate pre-tax gain of $4.0 million ($2.6 million after-tax).



    (18)     INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED CELLULAR ENTITIES

       The Company's share of earnings from cellular entities in which it does

    not own a majority interest was $16.9 million, $7.6 million and $2.1

    million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, and is included, net of $1.2

    million, $966,000 and $395,000 of amortization of goodwill attributable to

    such investments, in "Income from unconsolidated cellular entities."  Over

    70% of the 1994 income from unconsolidated cellular entities was

    attributable to the following investments:



                                                          Ownership interest
    ========================================================================
    GTE Mobilnet of Austin Limited Partnership                    35%

    Alltel Cellular Associates of Arkansas Limited Partnership    36%

    Lafayette MSA Limited Partnership                             49%
    ========================================================================


       Consolidated retained earnings at December 31, 1994 which represented

    undistributed earnings of unconsolidated cellular entities was $15.4

    million.



       The following summarizes the unaudited combined assets, liabilities and

    equity, and the unaudited combined results of operations of the cellular

    entities in which the Company's investments are accounted for by the

    equity method.



    December 31,                                        1994         1993
    ======================================================================
                                                     (Dollars in thousands)
                                                          (unaudited)
    Assets
       Current assets                               $  76,191       52,273
       Property and other noncurrent assets           277,269      234,512
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    $ 353,460      286,785
    ======================================================================
    Liabilities and equity
       Current liabilities                          $  48,144       47,814
       Noncurrent liabilities                          11,080        9,627
       Equity                                         294,236      229,344
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    $ 353,460      286,785
    ======================================================================




    Year ended December 31,                      1994      1993      1992
    ======================================================================
                                                  (Dollars in thousands)
                                                         (unaudited)
    Results of operations
       Revenues                              $ 329,907   236,230   151,978

       Operating income                      $  93,512    52,742    26,683

       Income before cumulative effect of
          changes in accounting principles   $  92,446    53,617    29,148

       Net income                            $  92,446    53,607    25,971
    ======================================================================


    (19)     COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

       Construction expenditures and investments in vehicles, buildings and

    other work equipment during 1995 are estimated to be $112.0 million for

    telephone operations, $59.0 million for mobile communications operations

    and $12.0 million for other operations.



       The Company is involved in various claims and legal actions arising in

    the ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of management, the

    ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse

    effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of

    operations.



    (20)     SUBSEQUENT EVENT

       On January 20, 1995 Century announced that it was calling for

    redemption all $115.0 million of its outstanding 6% convertible debentures

    due 2007 at a redemption price of 104.2% of principal plus accrued

    interest from February 1, 1995 to February 21, 1995, the redemption date.

    The debentures may be converted into Century common stock by the debenture

    holders on or before February 13, 1995 at a conversion price of $25.33 per

    share.



       The debentures were issued in February 1992.  If Century had issued

    common stock instead of the debentures, primary earnings per share for the

    years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 would have been $1.81 and $1.32,

    respectively; primary earnings per share before the cumulative effect of

    changes in accounting principles in 1992 would have been $1.22.






                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
              Consolidated Quarterly Income Information (unaudited)


                                     First     Second      Third     Fourth
                                    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter
    ========================================================================
                                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Operating revenues            $ 120,980    132,880    141,515    144,865

    Operating income              $  35,886     41,713     45,781     46,055

    Net income                    $  19,201     21,485     24,613     34,939

    Fully diluted earnings
      per share                   $     .35        .39        .44        .62
    ========================================================================

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Operating revenues            $  96,825    107,338    112,765    116,269

    Operating income              $  28,267     31,343     33,477     31,721

    Net income                    $  15,740     16,517     17,596     19,151

    Fully diluted earnings
      per share                   $     .31        .32        .33        .36
    ========================================================================

       Fully diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 1994 includes

    $.16 per share of gain on the sales of assets; such increase in fully

    diluted earnings per share was partially offset by a decrease of $.03 per

    share related to cellular commissions incurred (during the fourth quarter

    of 1994 as compared to the average of the first three quarters of 1994) as

    a result of the significant increase in the number of cellular subscribers

    activated during the quarter.



       Fully diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 1993

    reflects a decrease of $.04 per share related to cellular commissions

    incurred (during the fourth quarter of 1993 as compared to the average of

    the first three quarters of 1993) as a result of the significant increase

    in the number of cellular subscribers activated during the quarter; such

    decrease was offset by non-recurring favorable income tax adjustments of

    $.04 per share.



    Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on

                Accounting and Financial Disclosure.



             None.





                                     PART III



    Item 10.     Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.



    Executive Officers



        The name, age and office(s) held by each of the Registrant's executive

    officers are shown below.  Each of the executive officers listed below

    serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors, except Mr. Williams who

    has entered into an employment agreement with the Registrant effective

    through May 1996 and from year to year thereafter subject to the right of

    Mr. Williams or the Company to terminate such agreement.





    Name                          Age      Office(s) held with Century
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Clarke M. Williams            73       Chairman of the Board
                                             of Directors

    Glen F. Post, III             42       Vice Chairman of the
                                             Board of Directors, President
                                             and Chief Executive Officer

    R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.         43       Senior Vice President and Chief
                                             Financial Officer

    W. Bruce Hanks                40       President - Telecommunications
                                             Services

    Harvey P. Perry               50       Senior Vice President, General
                                             Counsel and Secretary

    Kenneth R. Cole               47       President - Telephone Group


         Each of the Registrant's executive officers has served as an officer

    of the Registrant and/or one or more of its subsidiaries in varying

    capacities for more than the past 5 years.  Mr. Cole has served as

    President-Telephone Group since January 1995 and as Vice President from

    1983 to 1994.



         The balance of the information required by Item 10 is incorporated by

    reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement relating to its

    1995 annual meeting of stockholders (the "Proxy Statement"), which Proxy

    Statement will be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after

    the end of the last fiscal year.





    Item 11.     Executive Compensation.



             The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference to

    the Proxy Statement.



    Item 12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.



             The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference to

    the Proxy Statement.



    Item 13.     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.



             The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference to

    the Proxy Statement.



                                     PART IV



    Item 14.     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
                   Form 8-K.

           a.   Financial Statements

                (i) Consolidated Financial Statements:

                      Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated Financial

                        Statements and Financial Statement Schedule


                      Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended

                        December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992


                      Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1994

                        and 1993


                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years

                        Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992


                      Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for

                        the Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992


                      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements





                      Consolidated Quarterly Income Information (unaudited)


                    (ii) Schedules:*

                      I    Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                       *   Those Schedules not listed above are omitted as not

                             applicable or not required.



           b.   Reports on Form 8-K.

                There were no reports on Form 8-K filed during the fourth

                quarter of 1994.



           c.   Exhibits:



               3(i)   Restated Articles of Incorporation of Registrant, dated

                         September 30, 1994 (incorporated by reference to

                         Exhibit 3(i) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form

                         10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994).



               3(ii)  Registrant's Bylaws, as amended through August 23, 1994

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to

                         Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the

                         quarter ended September 30, 1994).



               4.1    Loan Agreement, dated January 3, 1990, between Registrant

                         and National Bank of Detroit, First National Bank of

                         Commerce and Bank One, Texas, National Association

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1989) and amendment thereto dated

                         May 15, 1992 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1

                         to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

                         year ended December 31, 1992) and the second amendment

                         thereto dated March 31,1993 (incorporated by reference

                         to Exhibit 19.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on

                         Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1993).



               4.2    Note Purchase Agreement, dated September 1, 1989, between

                         Registrant, Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association

                         of America and the Lincoln





                                                    National Life Insurance

                         Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.23 to

                         Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the

                         quarter ended September 30, 1989).



               4.3    Agreement, dated November 27, 1977, among Registrant, The

                         Travelers Insurance Company and The Travelers

                         Indemnity Company, and form of Warrant (incorporated

                         by reference to Exhibits 4 and 5 to Registrant's

                         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December

                         31, 1977).



               4.10   Form of Indenture dated May 1, 1940 among Century

                         Telephone of Wisconsin, Inc. (formerly La Crosse

                         Telephone Corporation) and the First National Bank of

                         Chicago and the Co-Trustee named therein (incorporated

                         by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to Registration No. 2-

                         48478).



               4.11   Supplemental Indenture No. 12 (incorporated by reference

                         to Exhibit 5.12 to Registration No. 2-62172) and

                         Supplemental Indentures 13 and 14 (incorporated by

                         reference to Exhibit 5.11 to Registration No. 2-

                         68731), each of which are supplemental indentures to

                         the Form of Indenture dated May 1, 1940 listed above

                         as Exhibit 4.10.



               4.12   Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of

                         November 17, 1986 between Century Telephone

                         Enterprises, Inc. and the Rights Agent named therein

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to

                         Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December

                         20, 1988), the Amendment thereto dated March 26, 1990

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to

                         Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the

                         quarter ended March 31, 1990) and the Second Amendment

                         thereto dated February 23, 1993 (incorporated by

                         reference to Exhibit 4.12 to Registrant's Annual

                         Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,

                         1992).



               4.16   Note Purchase Agreement, dated May 6, 1986, among

                         Registrant, Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association

                         of America, Aetna Life Insurance Company, the Aetna

                         Casualty and Surety Company and Lincoln National

                         Pension Insurance Company (incorporated by reference

                         to Exhibit 4.23 to Registration No. 33-5836),

                         Amendatory Agreement dated November 1, 1986

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year




                         ended December 31, 1986), amendment thereto dated

                         November 1, 1987 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit

                         4.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

                         year ended December 31, 1987) and Modification Letter

                         dated September 1, 1989 (incorporated by reference to

                         Exhibit 19.6 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form

                         10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1989).



               4.22   Form of common stock certificate of the Registrant

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to

                         Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the

                         quarter ended June 30, 1993).



               4.23   Indenture, dated February 1, 1992, between Registrant and

                         Regions Bank (formerly First American Bank and Trust

                         of Louisiana) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit

                         4.23 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for

                         the year ended December 31, 1991).



               4.24   Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated February 7,

                         1992 between Registrant and NationsBank of Texas, N.A.

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.24 to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1991), amendment thereto dated

                         April 8, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit

                         19.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for

                         the quarter ended March 31, 1993), amendment thereto

                         dated July 9, 1993 (incorporated by reference to

                         Exhibit 4.24 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-

                         K for the year ended December 31, 1993) and amendment

                         thereto dated August 15, 1994 (incorporated by

                         reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Quarterly

                         Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September

                         30, 1994).



               4.26   Resolutions adopted by the Executive Committee of the

                         Board of Directors on April 29, 1994 designating the

                         terms and conditions of the Company's 7-3/4% Senior

                         Notes, Series A, due 2004 and 8-1/4% Senior Notes,

                         Series B, due 2024 ("Senior Notes") (incorporated by

                         reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Quarterly

                         Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,

                         1994).



               4.27   Form of Senior Notes (incorporated by reference to

                         Exhibit 4.3 of the Company's Registration Statement on

                         Form S-3, Registration No. 33-52915).




               4.28   Indenture dated as of March 31, 1994 between the Company

                         and Regions Bank (formerly First American Bank & Trust

                         of Louisiana), as Trustee (incorporated by reference

                         to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's Registration Statement

                         on Form S-3, Registration No. 33-52915).



              10.1*   Employment Agreement, dated May 24, 1993, by and between

                         Clarke M. Williams and Registrant (incorporated by

                         reference to Exhibit 19.1 to Registrant's Quarterly

                         Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,

                         1993).



              10.2*   Form of agreement that the registrant has entered into

                         with each Executive Officer other than Mr. Williams

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1990).



              10.3*   Registrant's Outside Directors' Retirement Plan, dated

                         November 19, 1984 (incorporated by reference to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1985), amendment thereto dated

                         February 21, 1989 (incorporated by reference to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1988) and amendment thereto dated

                         May 17, 1991 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit

                         10.3 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for

                         the year ended December 31, 1991).



              10.4*   Registrant's Amended and Restated Supplemental Executive

                         Retirement Plan, as amended and restated July 1, 1994

                         and amendment thereto dated February 10, 1995,

                         included elsewhere herein.



              10.5*   Registrant's 1983 Restricted Stock Plan, dated February

                         21, 1984 (incorporated by reference to Registrant's

                         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December

                         31, 1985).



              10.6*   Registrant's Key Employee Incentive Compensation Plan,

                         dated January 1, 1984 (incorporated by reference to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1985).





              10.7*   The Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Dollars & Sense

                         Plan and Trust, as amended and restated, generally

                         effective April 1, 1992, included elsewhere herein.



              10.8*   Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Employee Stock

                         Ownership Plan and Trust, dated March 20, 1987

                         (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual

                         Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,

                         1986), amendment thereto dated February 29, 1988

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1987), amendments thereto dated

                         March 21, 1991 and April 15, 1991 (incorporated by

                         reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Registrant's Annual

                         Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,

                         1991), amendments thereto dated March 31, 1992

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1992) and amendments thereto dated

                         June 1, 1993 and June 10, 1993 (incorporated by

                         reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Registrant's Annual

                         Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,

                         1993).



              10.9*   Registrant's 1988 Incentive Compensation Program as

                         amended and restated August 22, 1989 (incorporated by

                         reference to Exhibit 19.8 to Registrant's Quarterly

                         Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September

                         30, 1989).



              10.10*  Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in 1988 by

                         the Registrant, pursuant to 1988 Incentive

                         Compensation Program, with certain of its officers

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1988) and amendment thereto

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to

                         Registrant's Registration No. 33-31314).



              10.11*  Registrant's 1990 Incentive Compensation Program, dated

                         March 15, 1990 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit

                         19.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for

                         the quarter ended June 30, 1990).



              10.12*  Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in 1990 by

                         the Registrant, pursuant to 1990 Incentive

                         Compensation Program, with certain of its officers





                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.3 to

                         Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the

                         quarter ended June 30, 1990).



              10.13*  Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in 1992 by

                         the Registrant, pursuant to 1990 Incentive

                         Compensation Program, with certain of its officers and

                         employees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17

                         to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

                         year ended December 31, 1992).



              10.15   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 24,

                         1992, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, by and

                         among Registrant, San Marcos Telephone Company,

                         Incorporated, SM Telecorp, Inc., SMTC Acquisition

                         Corp. and SMT Acquisition Corp. (incorporated by

                         reference to Exhibit 2 of Registrant's Registration on

                         Form S-4 dated February 3, 1993, Registration No. 33-

                         57838).



              10.16*  Registrant's Amended and Restated Salary Continuation

                         (Disability) Plan for Officers, dated November 26,

                         1991 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1991).



              10.18*  Form of Performance Share Agreement Under the 1990

                         Incentive Compensation Program, entered into in 1993

                         with certain of its officers and employees

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 28.1 to

                         Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the

                         quarter ended March 31, 1993).



              10.19*  Form of Restricted Stock Agreement and Performance Share

                         Agreement Under the 1988 Incentive Compensation

                         Program, entered into in 1993 with certain of its

                         officers and employees (incorporated by reference to

                         Exhibit 28.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form

                         10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1993).



              10.20   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 8, 1993, as

                         amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated January 5,

                         1994 by and among Registrant, Celutel Acquisition

                         Corp., Celutel, Inc. and the Principal Stockholders of

                         Celutel, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Appendix I

                         of Registrant's Prospectus forming a part of its

                         Registration Statement No. 33-50791 filed January 12,

                         1994 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5)).





              10.21*  Registrant's  Amended and Restated Supplemental Defined

                         Contribution Plan, dated as of January 1, 1994,

                         included elsewhere herein.



              10.22*  Registrant's Amended and Restated Supplemental Dollars &

                         Sense Plan, effective as of January 1, 1995, included

                         elsewhere herein.



              10.23   Loan Agreement and Grant of Rights of First Refusal to

                         Acquire Assets and/or Capital Stock of MillTenn, Inc.

                         and its Subsidiaries (incorporated by reference to

                         Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form

                         10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994).



              10.24*  Agreement, dated December 31, 1994, by and between Jim D.

                         Reppond and Registrant, included elsewhere herein.



              10.25*  The Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Stock Bonus Plan,

                         PAYSOP and Trust, as amended and restated September

                         10, 1987 and amendment thereto dated February 29, 1988

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.21 to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1987), amendments thereto dated

                         March 21, 1991 and April 15, 1991, (incorporated by

                         reference to Exhibit 4.21 to Registrant's Annual

                         Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,

                         1991), amendment thereto dated March 31, 1992

                         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.21 to

                         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

                         ended December 31, 1992) and amendments thereto dated

                         June 1, 1993 and June 10, 1993 (incorporated by

                         reference to Exhibit 4.21 to Regis-trant's Annual

                         Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,

                         1993).



              11      Computations of Earnings Per Share, included elsewhere
                        herein.


              21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant, included elsewhere herein.


              23      Independent Auditors' Consent, included elsewhere herein.


              27      Financial Data Schedule, included elsewhere herein.


           *  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.




                                    SIGNATURES


         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
    signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                   CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.


    Date:  March 17, 1995           By:  /s/ Clarke M. Williams
                                            Clarke M. Williams
                                          Chairman of the Board

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
    this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
    the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


    /s/ Clarke M. Williams        Chairman of the Board
    Clarke M. Williams              of Directors                March 17, 1995

                                  Vice Chairman of the
                                    Board of Directors,
    /s/ Glen F. Post, III           President, and Chief
    Glen F. Post, III               Executive Officer           March 17, 1995


                                  Senior Vice President
    /s/ R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.       and Chief Financial
    R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.           Officer                     March 17, 1995


                                  Senior Vice President,
    /s/ Harvey P. Perry             Secretary, General
    Harvey P. Perry                 Counsel and Director        March 17, 1995



    /s/ W. Bruce Hanks            President - Telecommunications
    W. Bruce Hanks                  Services and Director       March 17, 1995



    /s/ Murray H. Greer           Controller (Principal
    Murray H. Greer                 Accounting Officer)         March 17, 1995



    /s/ William R. Boles, Jr.     Director
    William R. Boles, Jr.                                       March 17, 1995






    /s/ Virginia Boulet           Director
    Virginia Boulet                                             March 17, 1995



    /s/ Ernest Butler, Jr.        Director
    Ernest Butler, Jr.                                          March 17, 1995



    /s/ Calvin Czeschin           Director
    Calvin Czeschin                                             March 17, 1995



    /s/ James B. Gardner          Director
    James B. Gardner                                            March 17, 1995



    /s/ R. L. Hargrove, Jr.       Director
    R. L. Hargrove, Jr.                                         March 17, 1995



    /s/ Johnny Hebert             Director
    Johnny Hebert                                               March 17, 1995



    /s/ F. Earl Hogan             Director
    F. Earl Hogan                                               March 17, 1995



    /s/ C. G. Melville, Jr.       Director
    C. G. Melville, Jr.                                         March 17, 1995



    /s/ Jim D. Reppond            Director
    Jim D. Reppond                                              March 17, 1995





            SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                 (Parent Company)
                               STATEMENTS OF INCOME



                                                     Year ended December 31,
    =========================================================================
                                                    1994      1993      1992
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     (Dollars in thousands)


    REVENUES                                    $   6,190     5,860     6,562
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    EXPENSES
          Operating expenses                        5,400     6,014     6,281
          Depreciation and amortization             6,603     5,877     4,086
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Total expenses                        12,003    11,891    10,367
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    OPERATING LOSS                                 (5,813)   (6,031)   (3,805)
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
          Interest expense                        (34,463)  (20,678)  (18,630)
          Interest income                          24,088    10,696    10,080
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Total other income (expense)         (10,375)   (9,982)   (8,550)
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    LOSS BEFORE INCOME TAXES, CUMULATIVE EFFECT
      OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND
      EQUITY IN SUBSIDIARIES' EARNINGS            (16,188)  (16,013)  (12,355)

    Income tax benefit                              3,205     5,037     2,173
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    LOSS BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES
      IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND EQUITY
      IN SUBSIDIARIES' EARNINGS                   (12,983)  (10,976)  (10,182)

    Cumulative effect of changes in
      accounting principles                             -         -     1,292
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    LOSS BEFORE EQUITY IN
      SUBSIDIARIES' EARNINGS                      (12,983)  (10,976)   (8,890)

    Equity in subsidiaries' earnings              113,221    79,980    53,195
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    NET INCOME                                  $ 100,238    69,004    44,305
    =========================================================================



            SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (continued)
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                 (Parent Company)
                                  BALANCE SHEETS

                                                               December 31,
    ===========================================================================
                                                          1994            1993
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)
                                      ASSETS
    CURRENT ASSETS
          Cash and cash equivalents                  $    3,097           2,975
          Receivables from subsidiaries                 126,821          53,638
          Other receivables                                 941           7,330
          Prepayments and other                             844             857
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Total current assets                       131,703          64,800
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
          Property and equipment                            932           1,192
          Accumulated depreciation                         (524)           (772)
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Net property, plant and equipment              408             420
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS
          Investments in subsidiaries (at equity)     1,032,991         771,062
          Receivables from subsidiaries                 155,156         130,568
          Note receivable                                24,167               -
          Deferred charges and other                     33,518          28,728
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Total investments and other assets       1,245,832         930,358
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    TOTAL ASSETS                                     $1,377,943         995,578
    ===========================================================================

                              LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
    CURRENT LIABILITIES
          Current maturities of long-term debt       $    5,481           4,450
          Notes payable to banks                        158,000         150,500
          Payables to subsidiaries                      155,551          93,540
          Accrued interest                                7,345           5,431
          Other accrued liabilities                      11,420           3,656
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Total current liabilities                  337,797         257,577
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    LONG-TERM DEBT                                      342,334         190,615
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    PAYABLES TO SUBSIDIARIES                             34,197          25,696
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER LIABILITIES               13,379           7,922
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
          Common stock, $1.00 par value, authorized
             100,000,000 shares, issued and outstanding
             53,574,361 and 51,294,705 shares            53,574          51,295
          Paid-in capital                               319,235         262,294
          Retained earnings                             291,999         208,945
          Unearned ESOP shares                          (16,840)         (9,220)
          Preferred stock - non-redeemable                2,268             454
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Total stockholders' equity                 650,236         513,768
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                     $1,377,943         995,578
    ===========================================================================




              SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (Continued)
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                 (Parent Company)
                             STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                                       Year ended December 31,
    ===========================================================================
                                                      1994      1993      1992
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       (Dollars in thousands)
    OPERATING ACTIVITIES
      Net income                                 $  100,238    69,004    44,305
      Adjustments to reconcile net income
         to net cash provided by (used in)
         operating activities:
          Depreciation and amortization               6,603     5,877     4,086
          Deferred income taxes                       5,918      (451)    2,886
          Earnings of subsidiaries                 (113,221)  (79,980)  (53,195)
          Cumulative effect of changes in
            accounting principles                         -         -    (1,292)
          Gain on sale of subsidiary                      -         -      (641)
          Changes in current assets and
            current liabilities:
             (Increase) decrease in other
               receivables                            7,078    (6,692)     (500)
             Increase in other accrued liabilities    5,063     1,203     1,075
             Change in other current assets and
                other current liabilities, net        6,014       102     3,806
          Other, net                                    766     1,934       635
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Net cash provided by (used in)
               operating activities                  18,459    (9,003)    1,165
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    INVESTING ACTIVITIES
      Acquisitions                                  (55,979)  (33,209) (135,131)
      Capital contributions to subsidiaries         (47,516)  (16,819)  (14,881)
      Dividends received from subsidiaries            3,841       908    12,030
      Increase in receivables from subsidiaries     (98,917)  (13,024)   (6,020)
      Increase in payables to subsidiaries           70,512    23,848    20,471
      Note receivable                               (25,000)        -         -
      Purchase of Industrial Development
        Revenue bonds                                     -   (19,000)        -
      Other, net                                     (3,292)   (2,893)    9,932
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Net cash used in investing activities (156,351)  (60,189) (113,599)
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    FINANCING ACTIVITIES
      Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt      147,754         -   112,987
      Payments of long-term debt                     (4,870)   (6,697)  (10,118)
      Notes payable, net                              7,500    88,500    14,700
      Proceeds from issuance of common stock          4,814     3,529     8,776
      Cash dividends paid                           (17,184)  (15,735)  (14,119)
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Net cash provided by financing
               activities                           138,014    69,597   112,226
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH
      AND CASH EQUIVALENTS                              122       405      (208)
    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR    2,975     2,570     2,778
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR     $    3,097     2,975     2,570
    ===========================================================================





            SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (continued)
                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.
                                 (Parent Company)
              NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT



    (A)  LONG-TERM DEBT

         The approximate annual debt maturities (including sinking fund
    requirements) for the five years subsequent to December 31, 1994 are as
    follows:

                                   1995-  $5.5 million
                                   1996-  $35.5 million
                                   1997-  $5.0 million
                                   1998-  $4.7 million
                                   1999-  $4.3 million

    (B)  GUARANTEES

         As of December 31, 1994, Century has guaranteed a promissory note for
    a subsidiary of $2.7 million, as well as the applicable interest and
    premium.  Century has also guaranteed $1.1 million in Industrial
    Development Revenue Bonds originally issued by a subsidiary; such bonds
    were assumed by the purchaser of the subsidiary's assets.

    (C)  DIVIDENDS FROM SUBSIDIARIES

         Dividends paid to Century by consolidated subsidiaries were $3.8
    million, $908,000, and $12.0 million during 1994, 1993 and 1992,
    respectively.

    (D)  INCOME TAXES AND INTEREST PAID

         Income taxes paid by Century (including amounts reimbursed from
    subsidiaries) were $35.0 million, $31.5 million and $26.5 million during
    1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

         Interest paid by Century was $32.0 million, $20.9 million and $15.7
    million during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

    (E)  CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

         Century adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106,
    "Employer's Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions"
    and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for
    Income Taxes," as of January 1, 1992.

    (F)  AFFILIATED TRANSACTIONS

         Century provides and bills management services to subsidiaries and in
    certain instances makes interest bearing advances to finance construction
    of plant and purchases of equipment.  Century recorded intercompany
    interest income of $22.2 million, $10.6 million and $9.4 million in 1994,
    1993 and 1992, respectively.





                       CENTURY TELEPHONE ENTERPRISES, INC.

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

                               December 31, 1994



    Exhibit
    Number
    -------


    3(i)  Restated Articles of Incorporation of Registrant, dated September 30,

            1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to Registrant's

            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,

            1994).



    3(ii) Registrant's Bylaws, as amended through August 23, 1994 (incorporated

            by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on

            Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994).



    4.1   Loan Agreement, dated January 3, 1990, between Registrant and

            National Bank of Detroit, First National Bank of Commerce and Bank

            One, Texas, National Association (incorporated by reference to

            Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

            ended December 31, 1989) and amendment thereto dated May 15, 1992

            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Annual

            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992) and the

            second amendment thereto dated March 31,1993 (incorporated by

            reference to Exhibit 19.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form

            10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1993).



    4.2   Note Purchase Agreement, dated September 1, 1989, between Registrant,

            Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America and the

            Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (incorporated by reference

            to Exhibit 4.23 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for

            the quarter ended September 30, 1989).



    4.3   Agreement, dated November 27, 1977, among Registrant, The Travelers

            Insurance Company and The Travelers Indemnity Company, and form of

            Warrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 4 and 5 to

            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December

            31, 1977).



    4.10  Form of Indenture dated May 1, 1940 among Century Telephone of

            Wisconsin, Inc. (formerly La Crosse Telephone Corporation) and the

            First National Bank of Chicago and the Co-Trustee named therein

            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to Registration No. 2-

            48478).



    4.11  Supplemental Indenture No. 12 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit

            5.12 to Registration No. 2-62172) and Supplemental Indentures 13

            and 14 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 5.11 to Registration

            No. 2-68731), each of which are supplemental indentures to the Form

            of Indenture dated May 1, 1940 listed above as Exhibit 4.10.



    4.12  Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of November 17, 1986

            between Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. and the Rights Agent

            named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to

            Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 20, 1988),

            the Amendment thereto dated March 26, 1990 (incorporated by

            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form

            10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1990) and the Second Amendment

            thereto dated February 23, 1993 (incorporated by reference to

            Exhibit 4.12 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

            year ended December 31, 1992).



    4.16  Note Purchase Agreement, dated May 6, 1986, among Registrant,

            Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America, Aetna Life

            Insurance Company, the Aetna Casualty and Surety Company and

            Lincoln National Pension Insurance Company (incorporated by

            reference to Exhibit 4.23 to Registration No. 33-5836), Amendatory

            Agreement dated November 1, 1986 (incorporated by reference to

            Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

            ended December 31, 1986), amendment thereto dated November 1, 1987

            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant's Annual

            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987) and

            Modification Letter dated September 1, 1989 (incorporated by

            reference to Exhibit 19.6 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form

            10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1989).



    4.22  Form of common stock certificate of the Registrant (incorporated by

            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form

            10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993).



    4.23  Indenture, dated February 1, 1992, between Registrant and Regions

            Bank (formerly First American Bank and Trust of Louisiana)

            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.23 to Registrant's Annual

            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991).



    4.24  Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated February 7, 1992 between

            Registrant and NationsBank of Texas, N.A. (incorporated by

            reference to Exhibit 4.24 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-

            K for the year ended December 31, 1991), amendment thereto dated

            April 8, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.2 to

            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended

            March 31, 1993), amendment thereto dated July 9, 1993 (incorporated

            by reference to Exhibit 4.24 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form

            10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993) and amendment thereto

            dated August 15, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to

            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended

            September 30, 1994).



    4.26  Resolutions adopted by the Executive Committee of the Board of

            Directors on April 29, 1994 designating the terms and conditions of

            the Company's 7-3/4% Senior Notes, Series A, due 2004 and 8-1/4%

            Senior Notes, Series B, due 2024 ("Senior Notes") (incorporated by

            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form

            10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994).



    4.27  Form of Senior Notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the

            Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 33-

            52915).



    4.28  Indenture dated as of March 31, 1994 between the Company and Regions

            Bank (formerly First American Bank & Trust of Louisiana), as

            Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's

            Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 33-52915).



    10.1  Employment Agreement, dated May 24, 1993, by and between Clarke M.

            Williams and Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.1

            to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended

            June 30, 1993).



    10.2  Form of agreement that the registrant has entered into with each

            Executive Officer other than Mr. Williams (incorporated by

            reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-

            K for the year ended December 31, 1990).



    10.3  Registrant's Outside Directors' Retirement Plan, dated November 19,

            1984 (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on

            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1985), amendment thereto

            dated February 21, 1989 (incorporated by reference to Registrant's

            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988)

            and amendment thereto dated May 17, 1991 (incorporated by reference

            to Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

            year ended December 31, 1991).



    10.4  Registrant's Amended and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement

            Plan, as amended and restated July 1, 1994 and amendment thereto

            dated February 10, 1995, included herein.



    10.5  Registrant's 1983 Restricted Stock Plan, dated February 21, 1984

            (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form

            10-K for the year ended December 31, 1985).



    10.6  Registrant's Key Employee Incentive Compensation Plan, dated January

            1, 1984 (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on

            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1985).



    10.7  The Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Dollars & Sense Plan and

            Trust, as amended and restated, generally effective April 1, 1992,

            included herein.



    10.8  Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan and

            Trust, dated March 20, 1987 (incorporated by reference to

            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December

            31, 1986), amendment thereto dated February 29, 1988 (incorporated

            by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form

            10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987), amendments thereto

            dated March 21, 1991 and April 15, 1991 (incorporated by reference

            to Exhibit 10.8 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

            year ended December 31, 1991), amendments thereto dated March 31,

            1992 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Registrant's

            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992)

            and amendments thereto dated June 1, 1993 and June 10, 1993

            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Registrant's Annual

            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).



    10.9  Registrant's 1988 Incentive Compensation Program as amended and

            restated August 22, 1989 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.8

            to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended

            September 30, 1989).



    10.10 Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in 1988 by the

            Registrant, pursuant to 1988 Incentive Compensation Program, with

            certain of its officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10

            to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended

            December 31, 1988) and amendment thereto (incorporated by reference

            to Exhibit 4.6 to Registrant's Registration No. 33-31314).



    10.11 Registrant's 1990 Incentive Compensation Program, dated March 15,

            1990 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.1 to Registrant's

            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1990).



    10.12 Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in 1990 by the

            Registrant, pursuant to 1990 Incentive Compensation Program, with

            certain of its officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.3

            to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended

            June 30, 1990).



    10.13 Form of Stock Option Agreement entered into in 1992 by the

            Registrant, pursuant to 1990 Incentive Compensation Program, with

            certain of its officers and employees (incorporated by reference to

            Exhibit 10.17 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

            year ended December 31, 1992).



    10.15 Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 24, 1992, as

            amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, by and among Registrant, San

            Marcos Telephone Company, Incorporated, SM Telecorp, Inc., SMTC

            Acquisition Corp. and SMT Acquisition Corp. (incorporated by

            reference to Exhibit 2 of Registrant's Registration on Form S-4

            dated February 3, 1993, Registration No. 33-57838).



    10.16 Registrant's Amended and Restated Salary Continuation (Disability)

            Plan for Officers, dated November 26, 1991 (incorporated by

            reference to Exhibit 10.16 of Registrant's Annual Report on Form

            10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991).



    10.18 Form of Performance Share Agreement Under the 1990 Incentive

            Compensation Program, entered into in 1993 with certain of its

            officers and employees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 28.1

            to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended

            March 31, 1993).



    10.19 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement and Performance Share Agreement

            Under the 1988 Incentive Compensation Program, entered into in 1993

            with certain of its officers and employees (incorporated by

            reference to Exhibit 28.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form

            10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1993).



    10.20 Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 8, 1993, as amended by

            Amendment No. 1 thereto dated January 5, 1994 by and among

            Registrant, Celutel Acquisition Corp., Celutel, Inc. and the

            Principal Stockholders of Celutel, Inc. (incorporated by reference

            to Appendix I of Registrant's Prospectus forming a part of its

            Registration Statement No. 33-50791 filed January 12, 1994 pursuant

            to Rule 424(b)(5)).



    10.21 Registrant's  Amended and Restated Supplemental Defined Contribution

            Plan, dated as of January 1, 1994, included herein.



    10.22 Registrant's Amended and Restated Supplemental Dollars & Sense Plan,

            effective as of January 1, 1995, included herein.



    10.23 Loan Agreement and Grant of Rights of First Refusal to Acquire Assets

            and/or Capital Stock of MillTenn, Inc. and its Subsidiaries

            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's

            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,

            1994).



    10.24 Agreement, dated December 31, 1994, by and between Jim D. Reppond and

            Registrant, included herein.



    10.25 The Century Telephone Enterprises, Inc. Stock Bonus Plan, PAYSOP and

            Trust, as amended and restated September 10, 1987 and  amendment

            thereto dated February 29, 1988 (incorporated by reference to

            Exhibit 4.21 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

            year ended December 31, 1987), amendments thereto dated March 21,

            1991 and April 15, 1991, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.21

            to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended

            December 31, 1991), amendment thereto dated March 31, 1992

            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.21 to Registrant's Annual

            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992) and

            amendments thereto dated June 1, 1993 and June 10, 1993

            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.21 to Registrant's Annual

            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).



    11    Computations of Earnings Per Share, included herein.



    21    Subsidiaries of the Registrant, included herein.



    23    Independent Auditors' Consent, included herein.



    27    Financial Data Schedule, included herein.






