Item 1A.  Risk Factors



The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations or financial condition.  If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.

Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance.



Our financial results and prospects are almost entirely dependent upon the sale of travel services.  Travel, including accommodation (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals and other properties), rental car and airline ticket reservations, is significantly dependent on discretionary spending levels.  As a result, sales of travel services tend to decline during general economic downturns and recessions when consumers engage in less discretionary spending, are concerned about unemployment or inflation, have reduced access to credit or experience other concerns or effects that reduce their ability or willingness to travel.  For example, the worldwide recession that began in 2007 led to a weakening in the fundamental demand for our travel reservation services and an increase in the number of consumers who canceled existing travel reservations with us.  Also during the recession, the accommodation industry experienced a significant decrease in occupancy rates and average daily rates ("ADRs").  While lower occupancy rates have historically resulted in accommodation providers increasing their distribution of accommodation reservations through third-party intermediaries such as us, our remuneration for accommodation reservation transactions changes proportionately with price, and therefore, lower ADRs generally have a negative effect on our accommodation reservation business and a negative effect on our gross profit.



Concerns persist about the outlook for the global economy in general, including uncertainty in the European Union and China.  Perceived or actual adverse economic conditions, including slow, slowing or negative economic growth, unemployment rates and weakening currencies and concerns over government responses such as higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand.  Further, uncertainty regarding the future of the European Union following the United Kingdom's vote to leave ("Brexit") and concerns regarding certain E.U. members with sovereign debt default risks could also negatively affect consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand.  At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates, increased cancellation rates and weaker trends in hotel ADRs across many regions of the world, particularly in those countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties, which we believe are due at least in part to macro-economic conditions and concerns.  Disruptions in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to or be indicative of deteriorating macro-economic conditions, which in turn could negatively affect travel to or from such countries or the travel industry in general and therefore have an adverse impact on our results of operations.



These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as sovereign default risk becoming more widespread, declining oil prices, geopolitical tensions and differing central bank monetary policies, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and other currencies.  Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, stock markets and oil prices can also impact consumer travel behavior.  For example, although lower oil prices may lead to increased travel activity as consumers have more discretionary funds and airline fares decrease, recent declines in oil prices and stock market volatility may be indicative of broader macro-economic weakness, which in turn could negatively affect the travel industry and our business.



Since the United Kingdom's Brexit vote, global markets and foreign exchange rates have experienced increased volatility, including a sharp decline in the value of the British Pound Sterling as compared to the U.S. Dollar.  Upon leaving the European Union, among other things, the United Kingdom could lose access to the single European Union market and travel between the United Kingdom and European Union countries could be restricted.  We could face new regulatory costs and challenges if U.K. regulations and policies diverge from those of the European Union.  Since the timing and terms of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union are unknown, we are unable to predict the effect Brexit will have on our business and results of operations.  The United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union could result in other member countries also determining to leave, which could lead to added economic and political uncertainty and further devaluation or eventual abandonment of the Euro common currency, any of which could have a negative impact on travel and therefore our business and results of operations.  For the twelve months ended June 30, 2016, U.K. destination gross profit and U.K. source market gross bookings were 10% or less as a share of our business.



The uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of










operations.  For example, we have experienced an increase in cancellation rates, which we expect to continue and which we believe is due in part to these macro-economic factors and a resulting lack of consumer confidence.  Increased cancellation rates negatively affect our advertising efficiency and our results of operations.





Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance.

We compete globally with both online and traditional travel and restaurant reservation and related services.  The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost.  Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple, Alibaba, Tencent, Amazon and Facebook, have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us.  For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market, including by establishing a flight meta-search product ("Google Flights") and a hotel meta-search business ("Hotel Ads") that are growing rapidly, as well as its "Book on Google" reservation functionality.



We currently, or may potentially in the future, compete with a variety of companies, including:

•online travel reservation services such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Orbitz, Travelocity, Wotif, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub, RatesToGo and CarRentals.com, which are owned by Expedia; Hotel Reservation Service (HRS) and hotel.de, which are owned by Hotel Reservation Service; and AutoEurope, Car Trawler, Ctrip (in which we hold a minority interest), eLong (in which Ctrip has acquired a significant minority ownership interest), Meituan, ezTravel, MakeMyTrip, OYO Rooms, Yatra, Cleartrip, Traveloka, Webjet, Rakuten, Jalan (which is owned by Recruit), ViajaNet, Submarino Viagens, Despegar/Decolar (in which Expedia holds a minority interest), Fliggy (operated by Alibaba), 17u.com, HotelTonight, CheapOair, Mr. and Mrs. Smith and eDreams ODIGEO;



•online accommodation search and/or reservation services, such as Airbnb and HomeAway (which is owned by Expedia), currently focused on vacation rental properties and other non-hotel accommodations, including individually owned properties;



•large online companies, including search, social networking and marketplace companies such as Google, Facebook, Alibaba, Tencent, Amazon, Baidu and Groupon;



•traditional travel agencies, travel management companies, wholesalers and tour operators, many of which combine physical locations, telephone services and online services, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, BCD Travel, Concur, Thomas Cook, TUI, Hotelbeds and Tourico (which have agreed to merge) and Kuoni, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world;












•travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business, including large hotel chains such as Marriott International, Hilton and Hyatt Hotels, as well as joint efforts by travel service providers such as Room Key, an online hotel reservation service owned by several major hotel companies;



•online travel search and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as TripAdvisor, trivago (in which Expedia holds a majority ownership interest), Qunar (which is controlled by Ctrip), Skyscanner (in which Ctrip holds a majority interest), Google Flights, Google Hotel Ads and HotelsCombined;



•online restaurant reservation services, such as TripAdvisor's LaFourchette, Yelp's SeatMe, Zomato, Bookatable (which is owned by Michelin), Quandoo (which is owned by Recruit) and Resy (in which Airbnb holds a minority interest); and



•companies offering new rental car business models or car- or ride-sharing services that affect demand for rental cars, some of which have developed innovative technologies to improve efficiency of point-to-point transportation and extensively utilize mobile platforms, such as Uber, Lyft, Gett, Zipcar (which is owned by Avis), BlaBlaCar, Didi Chuxing and Ola.







There has been a proliferation of new channels through which accommodation providers can offer reservations.  For example, companies such as Airbnb and HomeAway (which is owned by Expedia) offer services providing vacation rental property owners, particularly individuals, an online place to list their accommodations where travelers can search and book such properties and compete directly with our vacation rental accommodation services.  Airbnb may also seek to further compete with us by offering hotel and other accommodations through their online and mobile platforms.  Further, meta-search services may lower the cost for new companies to enter the market by providing a distribution channel without the cost of promoting the new entrant's brand to drive consumers directly to its website.  If any of these services are successful in attracting consumers who would otherwise use our services, our business and results of operations would be harmed.














We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

We conduct a substantial majority of our business outside the United States but we report our results in U.S. Dollars.  As a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars.  Throughout 2015, the U.S. Dollar strengthened significantly year-over-year relative to substantially all currencies in which we transact, most notably the Euro, Brazilian Real, British Pound Sterling, Russian Ruble and Australian Dollar.  In 2016, the U.S. Dollar continued to be stronger year-over-year relative to the British Pound Sterling, Russian Ruble and many other major currencies in which we transact.  Since the “Brexit” referendum in the United Kingdom in June 2016, the U.S. Dollar has strengthened significantly against the British Pound Sterling.  Potential tax law changes, such as a U.S. border adjustment tax on imported goods, could, if implemented, lead to additional foreign exchange rate volatility and potentially additional strengthening of the U.S. dollar.  As a result of these currency exchange rate changes, our foreign currency denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income have been negatively impacted as expressed in U.S. Dollars, although to a much lesser extent in 2016 than in 2015.  For example, gross profit from our international operations grew

22.3%

for the year ended

December 31, 2016

compared to the year ended

December 31, 2015

, but, without the negative impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately

25%

.  If the U.S. dollar strengthens further, our foreign currency denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income when expressed in U.S. dollars would be adversely affected.



Recent macro-economic conditions, such as sovereign default risk of certain European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt, concern around devaluation or abandonment of the Euro common currency, declining oil prices, Brexit, geopolitical tensions and differing central bank monetary policies, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the British Pound Sterling, the U.S. Dollar and other currencies.  Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates can affect consumer travel behavior.  For example, the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro in 2015 made it more expensive for Europeans to travel to the United States, and dramatic depreciation of the Russian Ruble in 2014 and 2015 made it more expensive for Russians to travel to Europe and most other non-Ruble destinations.  Consumers traveling from a country whose currency has weakened against other currencies may book lower ADR accommodations, choose to shorten or cancel their international travel plans or choose to travel domestically rather than internationally, any of which could adversely affect our gross bookings, revenues and results of operations, in particular when expressed in U.S. Dollars.

Additionally, foreign exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses that are reflected in our financial results.

Volatility in foreign exchange rates and its impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, make it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations.

We face risks related to the growth rate and the global expansion of our business.

We derive a substantial portion of our revenues, and have significant operations, outside the United States.  Our international operations include the Netherlands-based accommodation reservation service Booking.com, the Asia-based










accommodation reservation service agoda.com, the U.K.-based rental car reservation service Rentalcars.com and, to a lesser extent, KAYAK's international meta-search services and OpenTable's international restaurant reservation business.  Our international OTC operations have achieved significant year-over-year growth in their gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers, net of cancellations).  This growth rate, which has contributed significantly to our growth in consolidated revenue, gross profit and earnings, has declined, a trend we expect to continue as the absolute level of our gross bookings increases.  Other factors may also slow the growth rates of our international businesses, including, for example, worldwide or regional economic conditions, any strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and other currencies, declines in ADRs, increases in cancellations, adverse changes in travel market conditions and the competitiveness of the market.  A decline in the growth rates of our international businesses could have a negative impact on our future consolidated revenue, gross profit and earnings growth rates and, as a consequence, our stock price.

In addition, as our vacation rental reservation business grows, we may incur increasing numbers of complaints related to non-existent properties or properties that are significantly different than as described in the listing, as well as claims of liability based on events occurring at such properties such as robbery, injury, death and other similar events.  Such complaints or claims could result in negative publicity and increased costs, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Further, the regulatory environment related to vacation rentals is evolving and laws, regulations or property association rules could impose restrictions or burdens on vacation rental property owners that limit or negatively affect their ability to rent their properties.  Some jurisdictions have adopted or are considering statutes or ordinances that prohibit owners and managers from renting certain properties for fewer than a stated number of consecutive days or for more than an aggregate total number of days per year.  Such regulations could negatively impact the growth of our vacation rental reservation business.

We believe that the increase in the number of accommodation providers that participate on our websites, and the corresponding access to accommodation room nights, has been a key driver of the growth of our accommodation reservation business.  The growth in our accommodation bookings typically makes us an attractive source of consumer demand for our accommodation providers.  However, accommodation providers may wish to limit the amount of business that flows through a










single distribution channel.  As a result, we may experience constraints on the number of accommodation room nights available to us, which could negatively impact our growth rate and results of operations.

The number of our employees worldwide has grown from less than 700 in the first quarter of 2007 to approximately18,500as ofDecember 31, 2016, which growth is mostly comprised of hires by our international operations.  We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth, damage our reputation, negatively affect our financial performance, and otherwise harm our business.  In addition, expansion increases the complexity of our business and places additional strain on our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions.  Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage this growth and our future operations, especially as we employ personnel in multiple geographic locations around the world.

We rely on performance and brand advertising channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites and grow our business.

We believe that maintaining and strengthening our brands are important aspects of our efforts to attract and retain customers.  We have invested considerable money and resources in the establishment and maintenance of our brands, and we will continue to invest resources in brand advertising, marketing and other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands.  In addition, effective performance advertising has been an important factor in our growth, and we believe it will continue to be important to our future success.  As our competitors spend increasingly more on advertising, we are required to spend more in order to maintain our brand recognition and, in the case of performance advertising, to maintain and grow traffic to our websites.  We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness and acceptance of our brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective.  If we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness and acceptance of our brands in a cost-effective manner, our business, market share and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.

We believe that a number of factors could cause consumers to increase their shopping activity before making a travel purchase.  Increased shopping activity reduces our performance advertising efficiency and effectiveness because traffic becomes less likely to result in a purchase on our website, and such traffic is more likely to be obtained through paid performance advertising channels than through free direct channels.  Further, consumers may favor travel services offered by search or meta-search companies over OTCs, which could reduce traffic to our travel reservation websites, increase consumer awareness of our competitors' brands and websites, increase our advertising and other customer acquisition costs and adversely affect our business, margins and results of operations.  To the extent any such increased shopping behavior leads to growth in our KAYAK meta-search business, such growth may not result in sufficient increases in revenues from our KAYAK meta-search business to offset any related decrease in gross profit or increase in advertising and other customer acquisition costs experienced by our OTC brands.



Our business could be negatively affected by changes in Internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements.

We use Google to generate a significant portion of the traffic to our websites, and, to a lesser extent, we use other search engines and meta-search websites to generate traffic to our websites, principally through pay-per-click advertising campaigns.  The pricing and operating dynamics on these search engines can experience rapid change commercially, technically and competitively.  For example, Google frequently updates and changes the logic which determines the placement and display of results of a consumer's search, such that the placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected and our costs to improve or maintain our placement in search results can increase.  Changes by Google in how it presents travel










search results,including its promotion of its travel meta-search services, or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our business, market share and results of operations.

In addition, we purchase website traffic from a number of other sources, including some operated by our competitors, in the form of pay-per-click arrangements that can be terminated with little or no notice.  If one or more of such arrangements is terminated, our business, market share and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Lastly, we rely on various third-party distribution channels (i.e., marketing affiliates) to distribute accommodation, rental car and airline ticket reservations.  Should one or more of such third parties cease distribution of reservations made through us, or suffer deterioration in its search engine ranking, due to changes in search engine algorithms or otherwise, our business, market share and results of operations could be negatively affected.

Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us.

We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological changes.

The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, consolidation, frequent new service announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing consumer demands.  We may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes.  In addition, these market characteristics are heightened by the progress of technology adoption in various markets, including the continuing adoption of the Internet and online commerce in certain geographies and the emergence and growth of the use of smartphones and tablets for mobile e-commerce transactions, including through the increasing use of mobile apps.  As a result, our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to










rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to continually innovate and improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace.  In particular, we believe that it is increasingly important for us to effectively offer our services through mobile apps and mobile-optimized websites on smartphones and tablets.  Any failure by us to successfully develop and achieve customer adoption of our mobile apps and mobile-optimized websites would likely have a material and adverse effect on our growth, market share, business and results of operations.  Further, to the extent mobile devices enable users to block advertising content on their devices, our advertising revenue and our ability to market our brands and acquire new customers may be negatively affected.  We believe that ease-of-use, comprehensive functionality and the look and feel of our mobile apps and mobile-optimized websites increasingly will be competitively critical as consumers obtain more of their travel and restaurant services through mobile devices.  As a result, we intend to continue to spend significant resources maintaining, developing and enhancing our websites and mobile platforms, including our mobile-optimized websites and mobile apps, and other technologies.

In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes (including new devices and services, such as Amazon's Echo and Alexa and Google Home, and developing technologies, such as artificial intelligence and chatbot technologies) could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure to those new technologies, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  For example, KAYAK generates revenues, in part, by allowing consumers to compare search results that appear in additional "pop-under" windows.  Changes in browser functionality, such as changes that either block or otherwise limit the use of "pop-under" windows, at times have had a negative impact on our revenues.  Any failure to implement or adapt to new technologies in a timely manner or at all could adversely affect our ability to compete, increase our customer acquisition costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, and therefore adversely affect our brand, market share and results of operations.

Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches and could give rise to liabilities.










We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the Internet.  Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could negatively affect consumers' willingness to provide private information or effect commercial transactions on the Internet generally, including through our services.  Some of our business is conducted with third-party marketing affiliates, which may generate travel reservations through our infrastructure or through other systems.  Additionally, consumers using our services could be affected by security breaches at third parties such as travel service providers, payroll providers, health plan providers, payment processors or global distribution systems ("GDSs") upon which we rely.  A security breach at any such third-party marketing affiliate, travel service provider, GDS or other third party on which we rely could be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and in any event could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions.  In addition, such third parties may not comply with applicable disclosure requirements, which could expose us to liability.

We are also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under our contracts with payment card processors.  Under these rules and obligations, if information is compromised, we could be liable to payment card issuers for associated expenses and penalties.  In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if no customer information is compromised, we could incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs.

System capacity constraints, system failures or "denial-of-service" or other attacks could harm our business.

Our computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at hosting facilities around the world.  These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events.  They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorism and similar misconduct.  Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of any disruption of service due to any such misconduct, natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at such facilities, or the failure by such facilities to provide our required data communications capacity could result in lengthy interruptions or delays in our services.  Any system failure










that causes an interruption or delay in service could impair our reputation, damage our brands or result in consumers choosing to use a competitive service, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

We rely on certain third-party computer systems and third-party service providers, including GDSs and computerized central reservation systems of the accommodation, rental car and airline industries in connection with providing some of our services.  Any interruption in these third-party services and systems or deterioration in their performance could prevent us from booking related accommodation, rental car and airline reservations and have a material adverse effect on our business, brands and results of operations.  Our agreements with some third-party service providers are terminable upon short notice and often do not provide recourse for service interruptions.  In the event our arrangement with any such third party is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms and, as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

We depend upon various third parties to process payments, including credit cards, for our merchant transactions around the world.  In addition, we rely on third parties to provide credit card numbers which we use as a payment mechanism for merchant transactions.  If any such third party were wholly or partially compromised, our cash flows could be disrupted or we may not be able to generate merchant transactions (and related revenues) until such a time as a replacement process could be put in place with a different vendor.

We do not have a completely formalized or comprehensive disaster recovery plan in every geographic region in which we conduct business.  In the event of certain system failures, we may not be able to switch to back-up systems immediately and the time to full recovery could be prolonged.  Like many online businesses, we have experienced system failures from time to time.  In addition to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a significant amount of consumer questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support personnel.  Any unscheduled interruption in our service could result in an immediate loss of revenues that could be substantial, increase customer service costs, harm our reputation and result in some consumers switching to our competitors.  If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently and significantly harmed.  We have taken and continue to take steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems.  These steps are expensive, may reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime.

We use both internally developed systems and third-party systems to operate our services, including transaction processing, order management and financial systems.  If the number of consumers using our services increases substantially, or if critical third-party systems stop operating as designed, we will need to significantly expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, financial and accounting systems and other infrastructure.  We may not be able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions in a timely manner, and, depending on the third-party systems affected, our transactional, financial and accounting systems could be impacted for a meaningful amount of time before upgrade, expansion or repair.

We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities.

As an international business providing reservation and advertising services around the world, we are subject to income taxes and non-income-based taxes in the United States and various international jurisdictions.  Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates and tax regimes in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change.  Our future effective tax rates










could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets or changes in tax laws or their interpretation.  If our effective tax rates were to increase, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would be adversely affected.

Although we believe that our tax filing positions are reasonable and comply with applicable law, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  To date, we have been audited in many taxing jurisdictions with no significant impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  If future audits find that additional taxes are due, we may be subject to incremental tax liabilities, possibly including interest and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

For example, French tax authorities recently concluded an audit that started in 2013 of the tax years 2003 through 2012.  The French authorities are asserting that Booking.com has a permanent establishment in France and are seeking to recover what they claim are unpaid income taxes and value-added taxes.  In December 2015, the French tax authorities issued assessments for approximately356 millionEuros, the majority of which represents penalties and interest.  We believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law, and we intend to contest the assessments.  If we are unable to resolve the matter with the French authorities, we would expect to challenge the assessments in the French courts.  We may be required to pay, upfront, the full amount or a significant part of any such assessments, though any such payment would not constitute an admission by us that we owe the taxes.  At the end of 2016, the French authorities announced their intent to also audit the tax years 2013 to 2015, which could result in additional assessments.

Italian tax authorities have initiated a process to determine whether we should be subject to additional tax obligations in Italy.  Italian tax authorities may determine that we owe additional taxes, and may also assess penalties and interest.  We believe that we have been, and continue to be, in compliance with Italian tax law.  In general, governments in the United States and Europe are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues, which has contributed to an increase in audit activity and harsher stances taken by tax authorities.  Any such additional taxes or other assessments may be in excess of our current tax provisions or may require us to modify our business practices in order to reduce our exposure to additional taxes going forward, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.



As ofDecember 31, 2016, we held approximately$12.6 billionof cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments outside of the United States.  We currently intend to use our cash held outside the United States to reinvest in our international operations.   If that intention changes and we decide to repatriate that cash to the United States, whether due to cash needs in the United States or otherwise, we would incur related U.S. income tax expense, and we would only make income tax payments when we repatriate the cash.  We would pay only U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and certain U.S. state income taxes as long as we have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset our U.S. taxable income.  If our foreign earnings were repatriated, this could result in us being subject to a cash income tax liability on the earnings of our U.S. businesses sooner than would otherwise have been the case.  After our net operating loss carryforwards have been fully utilized, foreign tax credits associated with the repatriation of international cash may be used to reduce U.S. federal taxes on the repatriation.



Additionally, in October 2015, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD") issued "final reports" in connection with its "base erosion and profit shifting" ("BEPS") project.  The OECD, with the support of the G20, initiated this project in 2013 in response to concerns that international tax standards have not kept pace with changes in global business practices and that changes are needed to international tax laws to address situations where multinational businesses may pay little or no tax in certain jurisdictions by shifting profits away from jurisdictions where the activities creating those










We are also subject to non-income-based taxes, such as value-added, payroll, sales, use, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the United States and various international jurisdictions, as well as the potential for travel transaction taxes in the United States as discussed below and in Note14to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  From time to time, we are under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income-based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income-based tax liabilities.

We may not be able to maintain our "Innovation Box Tax" benefit.

The Netherlands corporate income tax law provides that income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at the rate of 5% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%.  A portion of Booking.com's earnings currently qualifies for Innovation Box Tax treatment.  In the year ended December 31, 2016, the Innovation Box Tax benefit reduced our consolidated income tax expense by approximately $324.6 million.

In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development ("R&D") certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six-month period are "innovative."  The R&D certificate is current but should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any future period - for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.com's new or anticipated activities as innovative - or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated to be performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agency's requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated.  Booking.com intends to apply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods.  However, Booking.com's application may not be accepted, or, if accepted, the amount of qualifying earnings may be reduced.










introduced in the Dutch Parliament in September 2016 and approved in December 2016.  The new innovation tax rules took effect on January 1, 2017, but also include transition rules.  We do not expect the new legislation to have a significant impact on Booking.com's eligibility for the Innovation Box Tax.

The loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit (or any material portion thereof), whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not "innovative" or for any other reason, would substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations.

Adverse application of U.S. state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

A number of jurisdictions in the United States have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.).  In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes.  Additional state and local jurisdictions may assert that we are subject to, among other things, travel transaction taxes and could seek to collect such taxes, either retroactively or prospectively, or both.

In many of the judicial and other proceedings initiated to date, the taxing jurisdictions seek not only historical taxes that are claimed to be owed on our gross profit, but also, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorneys' fees and costs.  To date, many of the taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate travel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our travel services.  With respect to taxing jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis.

In connection with some travel transaction tax audits and assessments, we may be required to pay any assessed taxes, which amounts may be substantial, prior to being allowed to contest the assessments and the applicability of the laws in judicial proceedings.  Payment of these amounts, if any, is not an admission that we believe that we are subject to such taxes and, even if we make such payments, we intend to continue to assert our position that we should not be subject to such taxes.

Litigation is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future cases and proceedings.  Adverse tax decisions could have a material adverse effect on our business, margins and results of operations.  An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending litigation may encourage the commencement of additional litigation, audit proceedings or other regulatory inquiries.  In addition, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorneys' fees and costs.



We are dependent on providers of accommodations, rental cars and airline tickets and on restaurants.

Name Your Own Price

®

and

Express Deals

®

services.  Further, as consolidation among travel service providers increases, the potential adverse effect of a decision by any particular significant travel service provider (such as a large hotel chain, airline or rental car company) to withdraw from or reduce its participation in our services also increases.  To the extent restaurants limit the availability of reservations through OpenTable, consumers may not continue to use our services and/or our revenues could be adversely affected, especially if reservations during highly desirable times on high volume days are not made available through us.










Further, KAYAK, a meta-search service, depends on access to information related to travel service pricing, schedules, availability and other related information from OTCs and travel service providers to attract consumers.  To obtain this information, KAYAK maintains relationships with travel service providers and OTCs.  Many of KAYAK's agreements with travel service providers and OTCs are short-term agreements that may be terminated on 30 days' notice.  To the extent OTCs or travel service providers no longer provide such information to KAYAK, KAYAK's ability to provide comprehensive travel service information to consumers could be diminished and its brand, business and results of operations could be harmed.  To the extent consumers do not view KAYAK as a reliable source of comprehensive travel service information, fewer consumers would likely visit its websites, which would also likely have a negative impact on KAYAK's advertising revenue and results of operations.  In addition, if travel service providers or OTCs choose not to advertise with KAYAK or choose to reduce or eliminate the fees paid to KAYAK for referrals from query results, KAYAK's business and results of operations could be adversely affected.



We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel; and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed.

Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals.  Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization.  In particular, the contributions of key senior management in the United States, Europe and Asia are critical to the overall management of our business.  We may not be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees, the loss of whom could harm our business and competitive position.

In addition, competition for well-qualified employees in all aspects of our business, including software engineers, mobile communication talent and other technology professionals, is intense both in the United States and abroad.  Our international success in particular has led to increased efforts by our competitors and others to hire our international employees.  Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees.  If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business, competitive position and results of operations would be adversely affected.  We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies.

As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust and competition regulators.

The online travel industry has become the subject of investigations by various national competition authorities ("NCAs"), particularly in Europe.  We are or have been involved in investigations predominately related to whether Booking.com's contractual parity arrangements with accommodation providers, sometimes also referred to as "most favored nation" or "MFN" provisions, are anti-competitive because they require accommodation providers to provide Booking.com with room rates that are at least as low as those offered to other OTCs or through the accommodation provider's website.





On July 1, 2015, Booking.com voluntarily implemented the commitments given to the French, Italian and Swedish NCAs throughout the European Economic Area and Switzerland.  Nearly all NCAs in the European Economic Area have now closed their investigations following Booking.com's implementation of the commitments in their jurisdictions.  Booking.com has also recently resolved the concerns of the NCAs in Australia, New Zealand and Georgia by agreeing to implement the "narrow" price parity clause in these countries.  The Turkish NCA recently imposed fines on Booking.com following an investigation into Booking.com's "wide" parity clauses.  We are in ongoing discussions with various NCAs in other countries










regarding their concerns. We are currently unable to predict the long-term impact the implementation of these commitments will have on Booking.com's business, on investigations by other countries, or on industry practice more generally.



On December 23, 2015, the German NCA issued a final decision prohibiting Booking.com's "narrow" price parity agreements with accommodations in Germany.  The German NCA did not issue a fine, but has reserved its position regarding an order for disgorgement of profits.  Booking.com is appealing the German NCA's decision.  An Italian hotel association has appealed the Italian NCA's decision to accept the commitments by Booking.com.



A working group of 10 European NCAs (France, Germany, Belgium, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Czech Republic, the United Kingdom and Sweden) was established by the European Commission in December 2015 to monitor the effects of the narrow price parity clause in Europe.  This working group (the "ECN Working Group") issued questionnaires during 2016 to online travel agencies, including Booking.com and Expedia, meta-search sites and hotels about the narrow price parity clause.  On February 17, 2017 the ECN Working Group issued a statement that it would publish its report soon and that it had decided to keep the sector under review and re-assess the competitive situation in due course. Separately, the French NCA, which is conducting its own review of the effects of the narrow price parity clause, issued a report on February 9, 2017, stating that it has not ruled out the possibility of issuing an opinion at its own initiative if a change in competition requires it, and that it would continue to contribute actively to the ECN Working Group process.



We are unable to predict how these appeals and the remaining investigations in other countries will ultimately be resolved, or whether further action in Europe will be taken as a result of the working group's findings.  Possible outcomes include requiring Booking.com to amend or remove its rate parity clause from its contracts with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions and/or the imposition of fines.



In August 2015, French legislation known as the "Macron Law" became effective.  Among other things, the Macron Law makes price parity agreements illegal, including the "narrow" price parity agreements agreed to by the French NCA in April 2015.  Legislation in Austria prohibiting "narrow" price parity agreements (including the narrow parity clause) became effective on December 31, 2016.  Similar legislation was approved by the Italian Senate in June 2016 but not ultimately passed, and could be introduced again in 2017.  A motion to prohibit the narrow price parity clause has also been proposed in Switzerland.  It is not yet clear how the Macron Law and the Austrian legislation or the proposed Italian and Swiss legislation may affect our business in the long term in France, Austria, Italy and Switzerland, respectively.



Further, the European Commission published a communication on online platforms and the digital single market in May 2016 in which it stated that it will engage in targeted fact-finding to investigate concerns raised in a recent public consultation regarding potential unfair terms imposed by online platforms, including price parity clauses.  The European Commission plans to report on its findings in the spring of 2017.  We are unable to predict what, if any, effect this inquiry will have on our business, industry practices or online commerce more generally.



To the extent that regulatory authorities impose fines on us or require changes to our business practices or to those currently common to the industry, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  Negative publicity regarding competition investigations could adversely affect our brands and therefore our market share and results of operations.  Further, the Macron Law, the Italian and Austrian laws and any similar legislation enacted by other countries, and the decision by the German NCA to prohibit "narrow" price parity agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations, in particular if consumers use our services to shop for accommodation reservations but make their reservations directly with an accommodation provider.



Competition-related investigations, legislation or issues could also give rise to private litigation.  For example, Booking.com is involved in private litigation in Sweden related to its "narrow" price parity provisions.  We are unable to predict how this litigation will be resolved, or whether it will impact Booking.com's business in Sweden.



In addition, as our business grows, we may increasingly become the target of competition investigations or be limited by anti-trust or competition laws.  For example, our size and market share may negatively affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval of proposed acquisitions, our ability to expand into complementary businesses or our latitude in dealing with travel service providers (such as by limiting our ability to provide discounts, rebates or incentives or to exercise contractual rights), any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or ability to grow and compete.












Regulatory and legal requirements and uncertainties could harm our business.

The services we offer are subject to legal regulations (including laws, ordinances, rules and other requirements and regulations) of national and local governments and regulatory authorities around the world, many of which are evolving and subject to the possibility of new or revised interpretations.  Our ability to provide our services is and will continue to be affected by such regulations.  For example, laws and proposed legislation relating to data localization in some countries could adversely affect our ability to conduct business in those countries.  The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by judicial or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to become impractical and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

•regulatory changes or other government actions;



•additional complexity to comply with regulations in multiple jurisdictions, as well as overlapping or inconsistent legal regimes, in particular with respect to tax, labor, consumer protection, digital content, advertising, promotions, privacy and anti-trust laws;



•our ability to repatriate funds held by our international subsidiaries to the United States at favorable tax rates;



•difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries; and



•reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries.



Our business has grown substantially over the last several years and continues to expand into new geographic locations.  In addition, we have made efforts and expect to make further efforts to integrate access to travel services across our various brands.  These changes add complexity to legal and tax compliance, and our increased size and operating history may increase the likelihood that we will be subject to audits by tax authorities in various jurisdictions.

We face increased risks as the level of our debt increases.

We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including through public or private offerings of debt securities.  Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have significant consequences, which could include:

•requiring the dedication of a portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, share repurchases and acquisitions;



•increased vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions;



•decreased, or loss of, the ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases or other general corporate purposes; and



•decreased flexibility when planning for or reacting to changes in our business and industry.












Our ability to make payments of principal of and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, many of which are beyond our control.  Further, we may not have access to equity or debt markets or other sources of financing, or such financing may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, to repay or refinance our debt as it comes due or, in the case of our convertible notes, upon conversion.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from our U.S. operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things, repatriate funds to the United States at substantial tax cost.

Our stock price is highly volatile.

The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control:

•operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;



•quarterly variations in our operating results;



•changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors;



•worldwide economic conditions in general and in Europe in particular;



•fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro;



•announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors;



•changes in our capital structure;



•changes in market valuations of other Internet or online service companies;



•announcements by us or our competitors of price reductions, promotions, significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;



•loss of a major travel service provider participant, such as a hotel chain, rental car company or airline, from our services;



•changes in the status of our intellectual property rights;



•lack of success in the expansion of our business models geographically;



•announcements by third parties of significant claims or initiation of litigation proceedings against us or adverse developments in pending proceedings;



•occurrences of a significant security breach;



•additions or departures of key personnel; and



•trading volume fluctuations.



Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, including through the conversion of our convertible notes, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market.  Given the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly.  In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis.

The trading prices of Internet company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations.  To the extent that the public's perception of the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies is negative, our










stock price could decline, regardless of our results.  Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.  Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, political instability (e.g., "Brexit" or the recent coup attempt in Turkey) or a natural disaster or terrorist attack affecting a significant market for our business, such as Europe or the United States, could cause our stock price to decline.  Negative market conditions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or the value of our stock for purposes of acquiring other companies or businesses.

We have, in the past, been a defendant in securities class action litigation.  Securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities.  To the extent our stock price declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional litigation.  This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

"Cookie" laws could negatively impact the way we do business.

A "cookie" is a text file that is stored on a user's web browser by a website.  Cookies are common tools used by thousands of websites, including ours, to, among other things, store or gather information (e.g., remember log-on details so a user does not have to re-enter them when revisiting a website), market to consumers and enhance the user experience on a website.  Cookies are valuable tools for websites like ours to improve the customer experience and increase conversion on their websites.

The European Union's ePrivacy Directive requires member countries to adopt regulations governing the use of "cookies" by websites servicing consumers in the European Union.  For example, a June 2012 amendment to the Dutch Telecommunications Act requires websites, including Booking.com, to provide Dutch users with clear and comprehensive information about the storage and use of certain cookies and obtain prior consent from the user before placing certain cookies on a user's web browser.  To the extent any such regulations require "opt-in" consent before certain cookies can be placed on a user's web browser, our ability, in particular Booking.com's ability, to serve certain customers in the manner we currently do might be adversely affected and our ability to continue to improve and optimize performance on our websites might be impaired, either of which could negatively affect a consumer's experience using our services and our business, market share and results of operations.

We face risks related to our intellectual property.

We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on domain name, trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, travel service providers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights.  We have filed various applications for protection of certain aspects of our intellectual property in the United States and other jurisdictions, and we currently hold a number of issued patents in several jurisdictions.  Further, in the future we may acquire additional patents or patent portfolios, which could require significant cash expenditures.  However, we may choose not to patent or otherwise register some of our intellectual property and instead rely on trade secret or other means of protecting our intellectual property.  We have licensed in the past, and may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties, and these licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation.  In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our services are made available online.  We may be required to expend significant time and resources to prevent infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights.

We believe that our intellectual property rights, including our issued patents and pending patent applications, help to protect our business. However, we may not be able to successfully defend our intellectual property rights or they may not be sufficient to effectively protect our business.

If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property or if our intellectual property is ineffective in protecting our business, our business, brands and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to, and are currently subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims, against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business.  For example, in February 2015, IBM sued us and certain of our subsidiaries asserting that we infringed certain IBM patents and claiming damages and injunctive relief.  While we believe the suit to be without merit and are contesting it, litigation is uncertain and we may not be successful.  We endeavor to defend our intellectual property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely expensive and time-consuming, and may divert managerial attention and resources from our business objectives.  Successful infringement claims against us could result in a significant monetary liability or










prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business.  In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be expensive to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

The success of our acquisition of OpenTable is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.

On July 24, 2014, we acquired OpenTable, a leading brand for booking online restaurant reservations.  We believe that the online restaurant reservation business is complementary to our online travel businesses, and that both OpenTable and our travel businesses will benefit from the addition of OpenTable to The Priceline Group.  As a result of our acquisition of OpenTable, we are subject to risks associated with OpenTable's business, many of which are the same risks that our other businesses face.  Other risks include: OpenTable's ability to increase the number of restaurants and diners using its products and services and retain existing restaurants and diners; OpenTable's ability to expand internationally; competition both to provide reservation management services to restaurants and to attract diners to make reservations through OpenTable's websites and apps; OpenTable's ability to effectively and efficiently market to new restaurants and diners; and any risks that cause people to refrain from dining at restaurants, such as economic downturns, severe weather, outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, or threats of terrorist attacks.

OpenTable's post-acquisition strategy was premised on significant and rapid investment in international expansion and various other growth initiatives, resulting in near-term reduced earnings and profit margins but with the goal of achieving significantly increased revenues and profitability in the long term.  As this strategy was achieving limited progress, in the third quarter of 2016 OpenTable modified its strategy.  As a result, while OpenTable intends to continue to pursue and invest in international expansion and its other growth initiatives, it intends to do so in a more measured and deliberate manner.  This change in strategy resulted in OpenTable updating its forecasted financial results to reflect (a) a material reduction in forecasted long-term financial results from these initiatives, partially offset by (b) improved earnings and profit margins in the near term as a result of the reduced investments.  As previously disclosed, based on the updated forecast, we estimated a significant reduction in the fair value of the OpenTable business and, for the quarter ended September 30, 2016, recognized a non-deductible goodwill impairment charge of$940.7 million.

Future events and changing market conditions may lead us to again re-evaluate the assumptions reflected in the updated forecast, including key assumptions regarding OpenTable's expected growth rates and operating margins and the success and timing of its international expansion and other growth initiatives, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates, currency exchange rates, market EBITDA comparables, and changes in accounting policies or practices, including proposed changes affecting measurement of goodwill and/or impairment testing methodology.  If OpenTable does not achieve the results currently expected, if its investments, in particular its investments in its international expansion efforts and other growth initiatives, are not successful, or if any of the assumptions underlying our estimate of the value of the OpenTable business, including those mentioned above, prove to be incorrect, we may further refine our forecast for the OpenTable business and recognize an additional goodwill impairment and an impairment of intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

The value of our investments could decline, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities.  These securities are predominantly classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax.  Our portfolio includes fixed-income securities and equity securities of publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility.  If such investments suffer market price declines, we may recognize in earnings the decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other than temporary.  We have invested a significant amount in Ctrip convertible notes and ADSs.  See Note


to our Consolidated Balance Sheets for more information regarding our investments in Ctrip securities.  The value of these securities is subject to the risks associated with Ctrip's business, as well as any changes by the Chinese government in foreign investment laws or elevated scrutiny or regulation of foreign investments in Chinese companies.  For example, because of foreign ownership restrictions applicable to its business, Ctrip is a Cayman Islands company operating in China through what is commonly referred to as a variable interest entity, or VIE, structure where it conducts part of its business through contractual relationships with affiliated Chinese entities.  Although VIE structures are commonly used by Chinese Internet and e-commerce companies, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations to VIE structures, and it is possible that the PRC government may view the VIE structure as in violation of PRC law.  VIE contractual relationships are not as effective in providing control over the affiliated Chinese companies as direct ownership, and Ctrip would have to rely on the PRC legal system to enforce those contracts in the event of a breach by one of these entities.  Further, conflicts of interest could arise to the extent Ctrip's officers or directors are










also shareholders, officers or directors of the affiliated Chinese entities.  Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect Ctrip's business and therefore the value of our investment in Ctrip.



We could lose the full amount of any of our investments, and any impairment of our investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Investment in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated.

We have invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies and acquisitions.  Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, greater than expected liabilities and expenses, inadequate return on capital, and unidentified issues not discovered in our investigations and evaluations of those strategies and acquisitions.  We may decide to make minority investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have limited or no management or operational control.  The controlling person in such a case may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and decisions of the company or venture in which we invested may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment.  A substantial portion of our goodwill and intangible assets were acquired in acquisitions.  If we determine that any of the goodwill and intangible assets, or any goodwill or intangible assets acquired in future transactions, experiences a decline in value, we may be required to record an other-than-temporary impairment, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.  Further, we may issue shares of our common stock in these transactions, which could result in dilution to our stockholders.



Our use of "open source" software could adversely affect our ability to protect our proprietary software and subject us to possible litigation.

We use open source software in connection with our software development.  From time to time, companies that use open source software have faced claims challenging the use of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms.  We could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software, or claiming non-compliance with open source licensing terms.  Some open source licenses require users who distribute software containing open source to make available all or part of such software, which in some circumstances could include valuable proprietary code of the user.  While we monitor our use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose our proprietary source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur, in part because open source license terms are often ambiguous.  Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could be harmful to our business, results of operations or financial condition, and could help our competitors develop services that are similar to or better than ours.

Our business is exposed to risks associated with processing credit card transactions.

Our results have been negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards.  Because we facilitate the processing of customer credit cards in many of our transactions, including a majority of our priceline.com, agoda.com and Rentalcars.com transactions, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our websites as well as other payment disputes with our customers.  Additionally, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards in certain transactions when we do not facilitate the processing of customer credit cards.  Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting customer chargebacks.  If we are unable to combat the use of fraudulent credit cards on our websites, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.










In addition, in the event that one of our major travel service providers voluntarily or involuntarily declares bankruptcy, we could experience an increase in chargebacks from customers with travel reservations with such travel service provider.  For example, airlines that participate in our services and declare bankruptcy or cease operations may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their flights.  Our policy in such event is to direct customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not to provide a remedy ourselves.  Because we process sales ofExpress Deals®airline tickets on a merchant basis, we could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or credit card chargebacks from customers, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  We have in the past experienced an increase in chargebacks from customers with tickets on airlines that ceased operations.  We process credit card transactions and operate in numerous currencies.  Credit card and other payment processing costs are typically higher for foreign currency transactions and in instances where cancellations occur.







