Item 1. Business



We design, build and sell cars, trucks and automobile parts worldwide. We also provide automotive financing services through General Motors Financial Company, Inc. (GM Financial).



Automotive



Our automotive operations meet the demands of our customers through our four automotive segments: GM North America (GMNA), GM Europe (GME), GM International Operations (GMIO) and GM South America (GMSA).



Our total worldwide retail vehicle sales were9.7 million,9.3 millionand9.0 millionin the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011.



GMNA primarily meets the demands of customers in North America with vehicles developed, manufactured and/or marketed under the following brands:

•     Buick•     Cadillac•     Chevrolet•     GMC

The demands of customers outside North America are primarily met with vehicles developed, manufactured and/or marketed under the following brands:

•     Buick•     Chevrolet•     Holden•     Vauxhall•     Cadillac•     GMC•     Opel



AtDecember 31, 2013we also had equity ownership stakes directly or indirectly in entities through various regional subsidiaries, primarily in Asia that design, manufacture and market vehicles under the following brands:

•     Alpheon•     Buick•     Chevrolet•     Wuling•     Baojun•     Cadillac•     Jiefang



In addition to the products we sell to our dealers for consumer retail sales, we also sell cars and trucks to fleet customers, including daily rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing companies and governments. We sell vehicles to fleet customers directly or through our network of dealers. Our retail and fleet customers can obtain a wide range of aftersale vehicle services and products through our dealer network, such as maintenance, light repairs, collision repairs, vehicle accessories and extended service warranties.



Competitive Position



Information in this2013Form 10-K relating to our relative position in the global automotive industry is based upon the good faith estimates of management and includes all sales by joint ventures on a total vehicle basis, not based on the percentage of ownership in the joint venture. Market share information in this2013Form 10-K is based on retail vehicle sales volume. Retail vehicle sales data, which represents estimated sales to the end customer, including fleets, does not correlate directly to the revenue we recognize during the period. However, retail vehicle sales data is indicative of the underlying demand for our vehicles. Worldwide market share and vehicle sales data excludes the markets of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria.



Retail sales volume includes vehicles produced by certain joint ventures. The joint venture agreements with SAIC-GM-Wuling Automobile Co., Ltd. (SGMW) and FAW-GM Light Duty Commercial Vehicle Co., Ltd. (FAW-GM) allow for significant rights as a member as well as the contractual right to report SGMW and FAW-GM joint venture sales in China.



The global automotive industry is highly competitive. The principal factors that determine consumer vehicle preferences in the markets in which we operate include price, quality, available options, style, safety, reliability, fuel economy and functionality. Market leadership in individual countries in which we compete varies widely.



Wholesale and Retail Vehicle Sales










Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



Wholesale vehicle sales data, which represents sales directly to dealers and others, is the measure that correlates vehicle sales to our revenue from the sale of vehicles, which is the largest component of automotive Net sales and revenue. Wholesale vehicle sales exclude vehicles produced by nonconsolidated joint ventures.The following table summarizes total wholesale vehicle sales of new vehicles by automotive segment (vehicles in thousands):

Years ended December 31,201320122011GMNA3,2763,2073,053GME1,0471,0791,240GMIO1,0371,1091,039GMSA1,0531,0501,090Worldwide6,4136,4456,422



In the year endedDecember 31, 201371.3% of our retail vehicle sales volume was generated outside the U.S. The following table summarizes total industry retail sales volume, or estimated sales volume where retail sales volume is not available, of new vehicles of domestic and foreign makes and the related competitive position by geographic region (vehicles in thousands):

Vehicle Sales(a)(b)(c)Years Ended December 31,201320122011IndustryGMGM asa % ofIndustryIndustryGMGM asa % ofIndustryIndustryGMGM asa % ofIndustryNorth AmericaUnited States15,8912,78617.5%14,7942,59617.5%13,0482,50419.2%Other3,20244814.0%3,05342413.9%2,75342115.3%Total North America19,0923,23416.9%17,8473,01916.9%15,8012,92518.5%EuropeUnited Kingdom2,59730111.6%2,33527211.7%2,24928112.5%Germany3,2582427.4%3,3942547.5%3,5082998.5%Russia2,8432589.1%3,0062889.6%2,7252438.9%Other10,0747567.5%10,2487967.8%11,6139288.0%Total Europe18,7721,5578.3%18,9831,6118.5%20,0961,7518.7%Asia/Pacific, Middle East and AfricaChina(d)22,1193,16014.3%19,3942,83614.6%18,6972,54713.6%Other(d)18,6767263.9%18,8347804.1%15,9447354.6%Total Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa40,7953,8869.5%38,2293,6169.5%34,6413,2829.5%South AmericaBrazil3,76765017.3%3,80264316.9%3,63363217.4%Other2,16938817.9%2,04740819.9%2,05443421.1%Total South America5,9361,03717.5%5,8491,05118.0%5,6871,06618.8%Total Worldwide(e)84,5959,71511.5%80,9089,29711.5%76,2259,02411.8%United StatesCars7,5911,06714.1%7,2141,03114.3%6,06095215.7%Trucks4,24499823.5%3,94693323.7%3,68192925.2%Crossovers4,05672117.8%3,63463117.4%3,30662218.8%Total U.S.15,8912,78617.5%14,7942,59617.5%13,0482,50419.2%








Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



__________

(a)North America vehicle sales primarily represent sales to the end customer. Europe, Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa and South America vehicle sales primarily represent estimated sales to the end customer. In countries where end customer data is not readily available other data sources, such as wholesale or forecast volumes, are used to estimate vehicle sales.

(b)Certain fleet sales that are accounted for as operating leases are included in vehicle sales at the time of delivery to the daily rental car companies; however, revenue is not recognized at the date of initial delivery due to guaranteed repurchase obligations.

(c)Vehicle sales data may include rounding differences.

(d)Includes the vehicle sales for joint ventures in the table below. Joint venture vehicle sales for General Motors India Private Limited and Chevrolet Sales India Private Limited (collectively GM India) are included in the table below through August 31, 2012. Refer to Notes3and8to our consolidated financial statements for further detail on our joint ventures and the acquisition of GM India.

Years Ended December 31,201320122011Joint venture sales in ChinaShanghai General Motors Co., Ltd (SGM)——1,200SAIC General Motors Sales Co., Ltd.1,5121,331—SGMW and FAW-GM1,6441,5011,342Joint venture sales in IndiaGM India64111



(e)Our vehicle sales volumes in the year endedDecember 31, 2013reflect continued recovery in the U.S. despite an intense competitive environment. Growth was largely attributed to new portfolio entries. Our vehicle sales volumes in the year endedDecember 31, 2012reflect an intensified competitive environment in the U.S., including aggressive competitor pricing and media spending, as well as key competitor new product launches. Our vehicle sales volumes in the year endedDecember 31, 2011reflect the moderate improvement in certain facets of the U.S. economy which contributed to a slow but steady improvement in U.S. industry vehicle sales, as well as increased volumes in Russia and China.



Fleet Sales and Deliveries



The sales and market share data provided previously includes both retail and fleet vehicle sales. Certain fleet transactions, particularly daily rental, are generally less profitable than retail sales. A significant portion of the sales to daily rental car companies are recorded as operating leases under U.S. GAAP with no recognition of revenue at the date of initial delivery due to guaranteed repurchase obligations. The following table summarizes estimated fleet sales and those sales as a percentage of total vehicle sales. Fleet sales data may include rounding differences (vehicles in thousands):

Years Ended December 31,201320122011GMNA758775740GME490500564GMIO415408378GMSA184190246Total fleet sales1,8471,8731,927Fleet sales as a percentage of total vehicle sales19.0%20.1%21.4%



The following table summarizes U.S. fleet sales and those sales as a percentage of total U.S. vehicle sales (vehicles in thousands):








Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



Years Ended December 31,201320122011Daily rental sales439431417Other fleet sales217242222Total fleet sales656673639Fleet sales as a percentage of total vehicle salesCars26.4%30.6%31.3%Trucks24.2%25.3%24.2%Crossovers18.6%19.2%18.8%Total vehicles23.6%25.9%25.5%



Product Pricing



Several methods are used to promote our products, including the use of dealer, retail and fleet incentives such as customer rebates and finance rate support. The level of incentives is dependent in large part upon the level of competition in the markets in which we operate and the level of demand for our products. In 2014 we will continue to price vehicles competitively, including offering strategic and tactical incentives as required. We believe this strategy, coupled with sound inventory management, will continue to strengthen the reputation of our brands and result in competitive prices.



Cyclical Nature of Business



Retail sales are cyclical and production varies from month to month. Vehicle model changeovers occur throughout the year as a result of new market entries. The market for vehicles depends on general economic conditions, credit availability and consumer spending.



Relationship with Dealers



We market vehicles worldwide primarily through a network of independent authorized retail dealers. These outlets include distributors, dealers and authorized sales, service and parts outlets.



The following table summarizes the number of authorized dealerships:

December 31, 2013December 31, 2012December 31, 2011GMNA4,9465,0155,068GME7,0877,5747,745GMIO7,4726,9156,901GMSA1,2011,2501,162Total worldwide20,70620,75420,876



We and our joint ventures enter into a contract with each authorized dealer agreeing to sell to the dealer one or more specified product lines at wholesale prices and granting the dealer the right to sell those vehicles to retail customers from an approved location. Our dealers often offer more than one GM brand at a single dealership in a number of our markets in order to enhance dealer profitability. Authorized dealers offer parts, accessories, service and repairs for GM vehicles in the product lines that they sell using GM parts and accessories. Our dealers are authorized to service GM vehicles under our limited warranty program and those repairs are to be made only with GM parts. Our dealers generally provide their customers access to credit or lease financing, vehicle insurance and extended service contracts provided by GM Financial, Ally Financial, Inc. (Ally Financial) and other financial institutions.



The quality of GM dealerships and our relationship with our dealers and distributors are critical to our success as dealers maintain the primary sales and service interface with the end consumer of our products. In addition to the terms of our contracts with our dealers we are regulated by various country and state franchise laws that may supersede those contractual terms and impose specific regulatory requirements and standards for initiating dealer network changes, pursuing terminations for cause and other contractual matters.










Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



Research, Product Development and Intellectual Property



Costs for research, manufacturing engineering, product engineering, and design and development activities relate primarily to developing new products or services or improving existing products or services including activities related to vehicle emissions control, improved fuel economy and the safety of drivers and passengers. In the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 research and development expenses were$7.2 billion,$7.4 billionand$8.1 billion.



Our top priority for research is to continue to develop and advance our alternative propulsion strategy because energy diversity and environmental leadership are critical elements of our overall business strategy. Our objective is to be the recognized industry leader in fuel efficiency through the development of a wide variety of technologies to reduce petroleum consumption.



Fuel Efficiency



We are fully committed to improving fuel efficiency and meeting regulatory standards through a combination of strategies including: (1) extensive technology improvements to conventional powertrains; (2) increased use of smaller displacement engines and improved and advanced automatic transmissions; and (3) vehicle improvements including increased use of lighter, front-wheel drive architectures.



Alternative Fuel Vehicles



Alternative fuels offer the greatest near-term potential to reduce liquid petroleum consumption in the transportation sector. Leveraging experience and capability developed around these technologies in our global operations we continue to develop FlexFuel vehicles that can run on gasoline-ethanol blend fuels as well as vehicles that run on compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).



We currently offer 16 FlexFuel vehicles in the U.S. for the 2014 model year plus an additional four models to fleet and commercial customers capable of operating on gasoline, E85 ethanol or any combination of the two. We continue to study the future role FlexFuel vehicles may play in the U.S. in light of recent regulatory developments and the rate of development of the refueling infrastructure. In201394% of vehicle sales in Brazil were FlexFuel vehicles capable of running on 100% ethanol blends. We also market FlexFuel vehicles in Australia, Thailand and other global markets where biofuels have emerged in the marketplace.



We support the development of biodiesel blend fuels, which are clean-burning alternative diesel fuels produced from renewable sources, and we provide biodiesel capabilities in other markets reflecting the availability of biodiesel blend fuels.



We produce CNG bi-fuel capable vehicles in Europe such as the Opel Zafira, and in the U.S., the Chevrolet Express and GMC Savana fullsize vans are offered to fleet and commercial customers, that are capable of switching between gasoline or diesel and CNG. We also produce the CNG bi-fuel Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra 2500 HD pick-up trucks that are available to both commercial and retail customers. In addition we recently announced the offering of a CNG bi-fuel Chevrolet Impala full-size sedan to both fleet and retail markets starting in the summer of 2014. We offer LPG capable vehicles globally in select markets reflecting the infrastructure, regulatory focus and natural resource availability of the markets in which they are sold.



Hybrid, Plug-In, Extended Range and Battery Electric Vehicles



We are investing significantly in multiple technologies offering increasing levels of vehicle electrification including eAssist, plug-in hybrid, extended range and battery electric vehicles. We currently offer 7 models in the U.S. featuring some form of electrification and continue to develop plug-in hybrid electric vehicle technology (PHEV) and extended range electric vehicles such as the Chevrolet Volt, Opel Ampera and Cadillac ELR. In 2013 we introduced the Chevrolet Spark EV and plan to invest heavily to support the expansion of our electric vehicle offerings and in-house development and manufacturing capabilities of advanced batteries, electric motors and power control systems.



Hydrogen Fuel Cell Technology



As part of our long-term strategy to reduce petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions we are committed to continuing development of our hydrogen fuel cell technology. Our Chevrolet Equinox fuel cell electric vehicle demonstration programs, such as Project Driveway, have accumulated nearly 3 million miles of real-world driving by consumers, celebrities, business partners and government agencies. These programs are helping us identify consumer and infrastructure needs to understand the business case for potential production of this technology.








Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES





GM and Honda entered into a long-term agreement to co-develop a next-generation fuel cell system and hydrogen storage technologies, aiming for the 2020 timeframe. The collaboration expects to succeed by sharing expertise, economies of scale and common sourcing strategies and builds upon GM's and Honda’s strengths as leaders in hydrogen fuel cell technology.



OnStar



OnStar, LLC (OnStar) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of GM serving more than 6.5 million subscribers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico and, through a joint venture, China. OnStar is a provider of connected safety, security and mobility solutions and advanced information technology and is available on the majority of our 2014 model year vehicles. OnStar's key services include automatic crash response, stolen vehicle assistance, remote door unlock, turn-by-turn navigation, vehicle diagnostics and hands-free calling.



OnStar has developed a system based on the findings of a Center for Disease Control and Prevention expert panel which allows OnStar advisors to alert first responders when a vehicle crash is likely to have caused serious injury to the occupants. OnStar also launched a mobile application to provide subscribers with up-to-date vehicle information such as oil level, tire pressure and fuel level as well as providing remote start, remote door unlock and navigation services from a mobile phone.



Product Development



Our vehicle development activities are integrated into a single global organization. This strategy builds on earlier efforts to consolidate and standardize our approach to vehicle development. We define a global architecture as a specific range of performance characteristics and dimensions supporting a common set of major underbody components and subsystems with common interfaces.



A centralized organization is responsible for many of the non-visible parts of the vehicle such as steering, suspension, the brake system, the heating, ventilation and air conditioning system and the electrical system. This team works very closely with the global architecture development teams around the world, who are responsible for components that are unique to each brand, such as exterior and interior design, tuning of the vehicle to meet the brand character requirements and final validation to meet applicable government requirements.



Intellectual Property



We generate and hold a significant number of patents in a number of countries in connection with the operation of our business. While none of these patents by itself is material to our business as a whole, these patents are very important to our operations and continued technological development. We hold a number of trademarks and service marks that are very important to our identity and recognition in the marketplace.



Raw Materials, Services and Supplies



We purchase a wide variety of raw materials, parts, supplies, energy, freight, transportation and other services from numerous suppliers for use in the manufacture of our products. The raw materials are primarily composed of steel, aluminum, resins, copper, lead and platinum group metals. We have not experienced any significant shortages of raw materials and normally do not carry substantial inventories of such raw materials in excess of levels reasonably required to meet our production requirements.



In some instances, we purchase systems, components, parts and supplies from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. The inability or unwillingness of these sources to supply us with parts and supplies could have a material adverse effect on our production capacity. Purchases from our two largest suppliers have ranged from approximately 10% to 11% of our total purchases from 2011 to 2013.



Environmental and Regulatory Matters



Automotive Emissions Control



We are subject to laws and regulations that require us to control automotive emissions, including vehicle exhaust emission standards, vehicle evaporative emission standards and onboard diagnostic (OBD) system requirements. Advanced OBD systems are used to identify and diagnose problems with emission control systems. Problems detected by the OBD system may increase warranty costs and the chance for recall. Emission and OBD requirements become more challenging each year as vehicles must








Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



meet lower emission standards and new diagnostics are required and will continue to become even more stringent throughout the world.



North America



The U.S. federal government imposes stringent emission control requirements on vehicles sold in the U.S. and additional requirements are imposed by various state governments. Canada’s federal government is aligned with the U.S. federal requirements. These requirements include vehicle exhaust emission standards, vehicle evaporative emission standards and OBD system requirements. Each model year we must obtain certification for each test group that our vehicles will meet emission requirements from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) before we can sell vehicles in the U.S. and Canada and from the California Air Resources Board (CARB) before we can sell vehicles in California and other states that have adopted the California emissions requirements. Fleet-wide emissions compliance must also be achieved based on a sales-weighted fleet average.



While we believe all our products are currently in compliance with EPA and CARB regulatory requirements, both agencies have ongoing “in-use” evaluations of compliance for products from all manufacturers. It is possible that we or either agency could identify potential non-compliance, which could lead to some type of field action to remedy the issue. Testing is conducted at various times. This includes pre-production testing of vehicles as part of certification and in-use testing of customer vehicles at specified mileages.



CARB has adopted its next round of emission requirements which phase in with the 2015 model year. These requirements include more stringent exhaust emission and evaporative emission standards. The EPA has proposed similar requirements which if adopted are expected to phase in with the 2017 model year. These new requirements will also increase the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle's emission performance.



California law requires that 12% of 2014 model year cars and certain light-duty trucks sold in the state must be zero emission vehicles (ZEV) such as electric vehicles or hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. The requirement is based on a complex system of credits that vary in magnitude by vehicle type and model year. Manufacturers have the option of meeting a portion of this requirement with partial ZEV credit for vehicles that meet very stringent exhaust and evaporative emission standards and have extended emission system warranties. Additional portions of the ZEV requirement can be met with vehicles that meet these partial ZEV requirements and incorporate advanced technology such as hybrid and plug-in hybrid electric propulsion systems meeting specified criteria. We are complying with the ZEV requirements using a variety of means including producing vehicles certified to the ZEV and partial ZEV requirements. CARB has adopted 2018 model year and later requirements for increasing volumes of ZEVs to achieve greenhouse gas as well as criteria pollutant emission reductions to help achieve the state's long-term greenhouse gas reduction goals. A portion of this requirement may be met with PHEVs that meet specified criteria including an extended emission system warranty.



The Clean Air Act permits states that have areas with air quality compliance issues to adopt the California car and light-duty truck emission standards in lieu of the federal requirements. Thirteen states as well as the Province of Quebec currently have these standards in effect, and 10 of these 13 states have adopted the ZEV requirements. Additional states could also adopt the California standards in the future.



Vehicles equipped with heavy-duty engines are also subject to stringent emission requirements. We also certify heavy-duty engines for installation in other manufacturers' products. We are using a system of credits to help meet these stringent standards as permitted by EPA and CARB regulations. We are meeting OBD requirements for heavy-duty vehicles with certain hardware and software changes.



In Mexico we must obtain model year certification from the Federal Environmental Protection Agency for each engine family and vehicle line before we can sell vehicles. Stringent light-duty vehicle emission requirements applicable to vehicles sold in Mexico are enforced starting 18 months after nationwide availability of Ultra Low Sulfur Fuels.  Emission requirements applicable to medium- and heavy-duty trucks powered by gasoline, CNG or LPG were upgraded in 2012.  Stringent emission requirements applicable to medium- and heavy-duty trucks powered by diesel have been proposed but no enforcement date has been established yet.



Regulations to control the emissions of greenhouse gases are discussed under “Automotive Fuel Economy” since we believe these regulations are effectively a form of a fuel economy requirement.



Europe








Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES





Emissions are regulated by two different entities: the European Commission (EC) and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE). The EC imposes harmonized emission control requirements on vehicles sold in all 28 European Union (EU) Member States and other countries apply regulations under the framework of the UNECE. We must demonstrate that vehicles will meet emission requirements in witness tests and type approval from an approval authority before we can sell vehicles in the EU Member States. Type approval requires the manufacturer to provide a representative vehicle to the evaluating agency who then determines if the particular type of vehicle is fully compliant with the applicable regulations. The regulatory requirements include random testing of newly assembled vehicles and a manufacturer in-use surveillance program. EU and UNECE requirements are equivalent in terms of stringency and implementation.



A new level of exhaust emission standards for cars and light-duty trucks, Euro 5, was effective in 2011. Future European emission standards focus particularly on further reducing emissions from diesel vehicles. The Euro 6 emission levels will become effective in 2017. The new requirements will require additional technologies and further increase the cost of diesel engines, which currently cost more than gasoline engines. To comply with Euro 6 standards we expect that we will need to implement technologies identical to those being developed to meet U.S. emission standards. These technologies will put additional cost pressures on the already challenging European market for small- and mid-size diesel vehicles. Gasoline engines are also affected by the new requirements. The measures for gasoline vehicles that require technology to reduce exhaust pollutant emissions will have adverse effects on vehicle fuel economy which drives additional technology cost to maintain fuel economy.



In the long-term, notwithstanding the already low vehicle emissions in Europe, the EC will continue devising regulatory requirements on the emission test cycle, real driving emission, low temperature testing, fuel evaporation and OBD.



International Operations



China has implemented Euro 4 standards with European OBD requirements nationwide for newly registered vehicles. Beijing currently requires many elements of Euro 5 standards for newly registered vehicles. Beijing, Shanghai and the Pearl River delta area are expected to require additional elements of Euro 5 standards in 2014. Nationwide implementation of Euro 5 is expected between 2015 and 2017. Beijing is considering the implementation of Euro 6 or EPA standards as early as 2016 and Onboard Refueling Vapor Recovery as early as 2017. For diesel-powered vehicles China has implemented Euro 4 standards for new type approvals of both light-duty diesel vehicles and all new registrations of heavy-duty diesel vehicles. Enforcement of Euro 4 standards for new diesel light-duty registrations began in 2013.



South Korea has implemented the Euro 5 emission standards with European OBD requirements for diesel-powered vehicles and the CARB standards for gasoline/LPG-powered vehicles. Commencing in 2014 new type-approvals will require the vehicle to meet Euro 6 diesel standards. The government is also considering the introduction of amendments to the low-emission vehicle program, LEVIII of the CARB standards, for gasoline/LPG-powered vehicles with the planned implementation in 2016.



India has implemented Euro 4 equivalent emission norms in 13 major cities of the country, where sulfur gasoline and diesel fuels (BS IV Fuel) are required and have been made available. Euro 4 norms are expected to apply in additional cities as BS IV fuels are made available in 2014 and 2015 in a phased manner.



South America



Certain countries follow the U.S. test procedures, standards and OBD requirements and others follow the EU test procedures, standards and OBD requirements with different levels of stringency. Brazil implemented national L5 low emission vehicle standards for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles in 2009. L6 standards for light diesel vehicles were implemented in 2012 and mandate OBD installation for light diesel vehicles in 2015. L6 standards for light gasoline vehicles are to be implemented in 2014 for new vehicles and 2015 for all models. Argentina implemented Euro 4 standards starting with new vehicle registrations in 2009 and the implementation of Euro 5 standards has been delayed from 2014 to 2015 for new vehicles and from 2016 to 2017 for all vehicles. Chile has enforced Euro 5 or U.S. Tier 2 Bin 5 emission standards for diesel vehicles and will implement Euro 5 or U.S. Tier 2 Bin 5 standards for gasoline vehicles in September 2014.



Industrial Environmental Control



Environmental Matters










Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



Our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws including those laws regulating air emissions, water discharges, waste management and environmental cleanup. Certain environmental statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Under certain circumstances these laws impose joint and several liability as well as liability for related damages to natural resources. Refer toNote 17to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on environmental matters including site remediation.



Facility Management



To mitigate the effects our worldwide operations have on the environment we are committed to convert as many of our worldwide facilities as possible to landfill-free facilities. At December 31, 2013 85 (or over 50%) of our manufacturing facilities were landfill-free facilities. Additionally we have 25 non-manufacturing facilities that are landfill free. At our landfill-free manufacturing facilities approximately 96% of waste materials are recycled or reused and 4% is converted to energy at waste-to-energy facilities. Including construction, demolition and remediation wastes, we estimate that we recycled, reused, or composted over 2 million metric tons of waste materials at our global manufacturing operations and estimate that we converted approximately 75,000 metric tons of waste materials to energy at waste-to-energy facilities in the year ended December 31, 2013.



In 2013 we surpassed our internal 2020 Manufacturing Commitment initiative to reduce total waste on a kg/vehicle basis by 10%, having reduced total waste by more than 45 kg/vehicle (including metals and foundry-related wastes). Total waste includes all byproducts from routine manufacturing operations, excluding construction, demolition and remediation wastes and materials that are sent for direct reuse (without processing).



In addition to providing environmental benefits our landfill-free program and total waste reduction commitments generate revenue from the sale of production by-products, reduce our energy costs, and help to reduce the risks and financial liabilities associated with waste disposal.



We continue to make progress on our other 2020 Manufacturing commitments including the implementation of our global energy strategy with a goal to increase our use of renewable energy and improve our energy efficiency. Our data collection and management system is designed to monitor and measure energy use as well as calculate the related CO2emissions including collecting and verifying energy, water and other environmental data from our facilities. Our approach to addressing climate change includes setting a greenhouse gas emissions reduction target, collecting accurate data, and by publicly reporting progress against our target.



Automotive Fuel Economy



North America



Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) reporting is required for three separate fleets: domestically produced cars, imported cars and light-duty trucks. Beginning with the 2011 model year both car and light-duty truck standards were established using targets for various vehicle sizes and vehicle model sales volumes. In 2014 our domestic car standard is estimated to be 33.8 mpg, our import car standard is estimated at 37.2 mpg, and our light-duty truck standard is estimated to be 24.5 mpg. Our current product plan is expected to be compliant with the federal CAFE program.



In August 2012 the EPA and the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) finalized a coordinated national program consisting of new requirements for the 2017 through 2025 model year light-duty vehicles that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve fuel economy. This regulation represents a continuation of the national program that has been established for the 2012 through 2016 model year light-duty vehicles. This program includes EPA and NHTSA standards that will require an industry-wide standard by 2016. Our current product plan projects compliance with both federal programs through 2016.



The CARB regulates greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles (which is the same as regulating fuel economy). This California program is currently established for the 2009 through 2016 model years. CARB has agreed that compliance with the federal program is deemed to be compliant with the California program for the 2012 through 2016 model years.



A Canadian governmental agency implemented greenhouse gas standards that were harmonized with U.S. standards beginning with the 2011 model year. However these regulations do not require the separation of car fleet into domestic and import vehicles. The Province of Quebec had previously adopted standards for the 2009 through 2016 model years that were equivalent to the California program but has revised their regulations to allow compliance with the national standards effective with the 2012 model year.








Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES





Mexico has adopted fuel economy targets similar to the U.S. for 2012-2016 model years. The Mexico standards offer additional flexibilities when compared to the U.S. requirements to account for the differences in terrain type, vehicle mix and fuel quality.  Discussions for post 2016 standards are expected to begin in 2014 calendar year.



Europe



Legislation regulating fleet average CO2emissions was implemented for passenger cars in 2012. Based on a target function of CO2to vehicle weight, each automobile manufacturer must meet a specific sales-weighted fleet average target. The fleet average requirement began phasing in during 2012 with full compliance required by 2015. Automobile manufacturers can earn super-credits for the sales volume of vehicles having a specific CO2value. This is intended to encourage the early introduction of ultra-low CO2vehicles such as the Chevrolet Volt and Opel Ampera by providing an additional incentive to reduce the CO2fleet average. Automobile manufacturers may gain credit for eco-innovations for those technologies which improve real-world fuel economy but may not show in the test cycle, such as solar panels on vehicles. There is also a 5% credit for FlexFuel vehicles if more than 30% of refueling stations in an EU Member State sell E85. Further regulatory detail is being developed. The legislation sets a target for 2020 with an impact assessment required to further assess and develop this requirement. We are developing a compliance plan by adopting operational CO2targets for each market entry in Europe.



In 2011 the EU adopted a standard to regulate CO2emissions from light commercial vehicles. This regulation is modeled after the CO2regulation for passenger cars. It proposes that new light commercial vehicles meet a fleet average CO2target with a phase-in of compliance from 2014 and full compliance required by 2016. The manufacturer-specific CO2compliance target will be determined as a function of the weight of the vehicle with all standard equipment and fuel (vehicle curb weight). Flexibilities such as eco-innovations and super credits are part of the regulatory proposal as well. An EU long-term target for 2020 has been adopted for light commercial vehicles. We have developed a compliance plan by adopting operational CO2targets for each market entry in Europe.



In July 2012 the EU Commission released a regulatory proposal outlining the regulatory implementation for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles targets effective in 2020. Implementation of the target has been delayed with final release expected in early 2014. While the passenger car target is expected to remain in place beginning in 2020, in that first year (2020) only 95% of the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) fleet is required to comply. Full 100% compliance will be required in 2021. The individual manufacturer targets will continue to be determined based on the average vehicle mass. Other compliance flexibilities will be limited adding additional challenges to compliance with the CO2fleet target.



Effective in November 2012 an EC regulation required low-rolling resistance tires, tire pressure monitoring systems and gear shift indicators, which we adopted in 2011. An additional EC regulation has been adopted that will require labeling of tires for noise, fuel efficiency and rolling resistance, affecting vehicles at the point of sale as well as the sale of tires in the aftermarket.



Seventeen EU Member States have introduced fuel consumption or CO2based vehicle taxation schemes. Tax measures are within the jurisdiction of the EU Member States. We are faced with significant challenges relative to the predictability of future tax laws and differences in the tax schemes and thresholds.



International Operations



We face new or increasingly more stringent fuel economy standards in many countries. China has established new Phase 3 fuel economy standards supplementing the current Phase 2 pass-fail system with a corporate fleet average scheme based on vehicle curb weight for the 2012 through 2015 model years. Implementation began in 2012 with full compliance required by 2015. China has continued its retail subsidies for consumers for fuel efficient vehicles, extended range and plug-in, battery electric and fuel cell vehicles. China is now working on a more aggressive Phase 4 fuel economy standard that is expected to apply to the 2016 through 2020 model years.



In Korea fuel economy/CO2targets for 2012 through 2015 were implemented as part of the government's low carbon/green growth strategy. These targets are based on each vehicle's curb weight and in general are set at levels more stringent than fuel economy targets in the U.S. but less stringent than CO2targets in the EU. The targets began being phased in during 2012 with full compliance by 2015 with manufacturers having the option to certify based on either fuel consumption or CO2emissions. Each manufacturer has been given a corporate target to meet based on its overall industry fleet fuel economy/CO2average. GM Korea Company's (GM Korea) current product portfolio is expected to comply with the targets by 2015. However, in 2014 the Korean








Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



government plans to set more stringent fuel economy targets for 2016 and beyond that will likely reach the level in Japan by 2020 and the level in the EU by 2025.



In Saudi Arabia the government is developing a footprint-based fuel economy standard modeled on the U.S. system, which would likely commence in 2016 using the U.S. target value curves from 2011 or 2012. The Saudi program is not expected to include the alternative fuel/advanced technology vehicle and other credits from the U.S. program.



In India the government is developing a weight-based CO2/fuel efficiency regulation that is likely to be implemented in 2017. It is expected that the regulatory standards could be similar but less stringent than levels required in the EU with tighter standards planned for 2022.



In Australia the current government's agenda no longer includes the adoption of attribute-based CO2standards.



South America



In Brazil the government has set new fuel economy requirements called INOVAR AUTO. OEMs have mandatory fleet average compliance required by October 2017 with a reduction from 2012 levels. The Brazilian government provides indirect tax incentives to eligible participant companies that meet certain requirements including these energy efficiency targets. The level of potential indirect tax incentives varies based on the degree and timing to which the targets are met. Participating companies that fail to meet the required criteria are subject to clawback provisions and specific fines.



In Chile every new passenger vehicle up to a certain vehicle weight is required to be tested under Euro procedure in order to determine its reference values to be included in the new mandatory fuel economy label. As a result of this process the label indicates the fuel consumption values for city, highway and combined city-highway and the CO2emission values.



Chemical Regulations



We continually monitor the implementation of chemical regulations to maintain compliance and evaluate their effect on our business, suppliers and the automotive industry.



North America



Governmental agencies in both the U.S. and Canada continue to introduce new regulations and legislation related to the selection and use of safer chemical alternatives, green chemistry, life cycle assessment and product stewardship initiatives. These initiatives will give broad regulatory authority to ban or restrict the use of certain chemical substances and potentially affect automobile manufacturers' responsibilities for vehicle life-cycle, including chemical substance selection for product development and manufacturing. These emerging regulations will potentially lead to increases in costs and supply chain complexity.



In California two chemical initiatives will become effective in 2014: the brake pad reformulation law and the safer consumer products regulations. The brake pad reformulation law requires brake and vehicle manufacturers to ensure brakes produced after January 2014 meet limits for the amounts of certain heavy metals and are properly certified and labeled. Under the safer consumer products regulation, California EPA will begin regulating specific consumer products that contain chemicals of concern. It is not yet known when vehicle components will be targeted.



Europe



In 2007 the EU implemented its regulatory requirements, EU REACH regulation, to register, evaluate, authorize and restrict the use of chemical substances. This regulation requires chemical substances manufactured in or imported into the EU in quantities of one metric ton or more per year to be registered with the European Chemicals Agency before 2018. During the pre-registration phase, Old GM and its suppliers registered those substances identified by this regulation. It is to be phased-in over a 10-year period. Under this regulation, “substances of very high concern” may either require authorization for further use or may be restricted in the future. This could potentially increase the cost of certain alternative substances that are used to manufacture vehicles and parts, or result in a supply chain disruption when a substance is no longer available to meet production timelines. Our research and development initiatives may be diverted to address future requirements.



Safety










Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



In the U.S. if a vehicle or vehicle equipment does not comply with a safety standard or if a vehicle defect creates an unreasonable safety risk the manufacturer is required to notify owners and provide a remedy. We are required to report certain information relating to certain customer complaints, warranty claims, field reports and notices and claims involving property damage, injuries and fatalities in the U.S. and claims involving fatalities outside the U.S. We are also required to report certain information concerning safety recalls and other safety campaigns outside the U.S.



Outside the U.S. safety standards and recall regulations often have the same purpose as the U.S. standards but may differ in their requirements and test procedures. Other countries sometimes pass regulations which are more stringent than U.S. standards. Many countries require type approval while the U.S. and Canada require self-certification.



Vehicular Noise Control



In the U.S. passenger cars and light-duty trucks are subject to state and local motor vehicle noise regulations. We identify the most stringent state and local requirements and validate to those requirements. Medium to heavy-duty trucks are regulated at the federal level. Federal truck regulations preempt all U.S. state or local noise regulations for trucks over a gross vehicle weight rating of 10,000 lbs.



Outside the U.S. noise regulations have been established by authorities at the national and supranational level (e.g., EC or UNECE). We believe that our vehicles meet all applicable noise regulations in the markets where they are sold. The EC has proposed new noise regulations that would mandate a significant decrease in vehicle noise emissions. These proposals are coupled with a new test procedure to better estimate the actual in-use noise emission of vehicles. The proposals of the EC also form the basis for amendment to UNECE vehicle regulations, with the expected effect that maximum noise regulations will become more stringent in all markets outside of North America. At this point, the final noise emission levels as well as the implementation timing of the final regulations are uncertain.



While current noise emission requirements regulate maximum allowable noise levels, formal proposals are under development to regulate minimum sound levels. These proposals stem from concern that relatively quiet vehicles, specifically hybrids and electrics, may not be readily heard by pedestrians. In the U.S., NHTSA issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on January 14, 2013 and the U.S. Department of Transportation indicated a final rule is expected to be published in 2015. The UNECE is developing a Global Technical Regulation, sponsored by the U.S., Japan, and the EU, for manufacturers to equip vehicles with pedestrian alerting devices where the vehicle fails to meet minimum sound emission levels.



We are committed to designing and manufacturing vehicles to comply with these regulations and potential noise emission regulations that may come from these proposals.



Potential Effect of Regulations



We are actively working on aggressive near-term and long-term plans to develop and bring to market technologies designed to further reduce emissions, mitigate remediation expenses related to environmental liabilities, improve fuel efficiency, monitor and enhance the safety features of our vehicles and provide additional value and benefits to our customers. This is illustrated by our commitment to marketing more hybrid vehicles, our accelerated commitment to developing electrically powered vehicles, our use of biofuels in our expanded portfolio of FlexFuel vehicles and enhancements to conventional internal combustion engine technology which have contributed to the fuel efficiency of our vehicles. The conversion of many of our manufacturing facilities to landfill-free status has shown our commitment to mitigate potential environmental liability. We believe that the development and global implementation of new, cost-effective energy technologies in all sectors is the most effective way to improve energy efficiency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate environmental liabilities.



Despite these advanced technology efforts, our ability to satisfy fuel economy, CO2and other emissions requirements is contingent on various future economic, consumer, legislative and regulatory factors that we cannot control or predict with certainty. If we are not able to comply with specific new requirements, which include higher CAFE standards and state CO2requirements such as those which require the CARB to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles, then we could be subject to sizeable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. Environmental liabilities for which we may be responsible are not reasonably estimable and could be substantial. Violations of safety or emissions standards could result in the recall of one or more of our products, negotiated remedial actions, possible fines or a combination of any of those items. We must also cover the cost of repairs conducted under emission defect and performance warranties which apply for specified periods of time and mileage. In turn any of these actions could have substantial adverse effects on our operations including facility idling, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue.








Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES





Pension Legislation



We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal rules and regulations including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 which govern the manner in which we fund and administer our pension plans. In July 2012 the U.S. government enacted the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act which allows plan sponsors funding relief for U.S. pension plans through the application of higher funding interest rates. Under current economic conditions we expect the new law to further delay required contributions to our U.S. pension plans. The new law does not impact our reported funded status.



Export Control



We are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations and most countries in which we do business have applicable export controls. Our Office of Export Compliance and our global Export Compliance Officers are responsible for working with our business units to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.



Automotive Financing - GM Financial



GM Financial is our captive automotive finance company that has been operating since 1992. GM Financial conducts its business in North America and, as a result of the 2013 acquisition of the Ally Financial international operations, in Europe and Latin America. GM Financial expects to complete in 2014 the acquisition of Ally Financial's equity interest in GMAC-SAIC Automotive Finance Company Limited (GMAC-SAIC) that conducts automotive finance and financial services operations in China.



GM Financial automobile finance programs in North America include sub-prime lending and full spectrum leasing. The sub-prime lending programs predominantly offer financing to consumers who have limited access to automobile financing through banks and credit unions. The typical borrower has experienced prior credit difficulties or has limited credit history and generally has a credit bureau score ranging from 500 through 700. Since GM Financial provides financing in a relatively high-risk market it expects to sustain a higher level of credit losses than other more traditional sources of financing. The full spectrum leasing product is offered through our franchised dealers and targets prime and sub-prime consumers leasing new vehicles. GM Financial seeks to provide competitive alternatives to existing marketplace lease offerings in our franchised dealers. GM Financial services its loan and lease portfolio at regional centers using automated servicing and collection systems.



In April 2012 and March 2013, GM Financial launched the U.S. and Canadian commercial lending platforms to further support our franchised dealerships and their affiliates. These platforms are centered on floor plan financing of dealer vehicle inventory and dealer loans to finance dealer sites, facilities, facility improvements and working capital. These loans are made on a secured basis.



GM Financial’s international consumer lending programs focus on financing prime quality consumers purchasing our new and used vehicles. In many countries GM Financial also offers financial leases, a lease/retail hybrid product that includes a balloon payment at expiration, and finance-related insurance products through third parties, such as credit life, gap and extended warranty coverage. Commercial products offered to dealer customers include new and used vehicle inventory financing, inventory insurance, working capital and capital improvement loans. Other commercial products include fleet financing and storage center financing.



GM Financial primarily finances its loan, lease and commercial origination volume through the use of secured and unsecured bank lines, through public and private securitization transactions where such markets are developed and, to a lesser extent in Latin America, through public financing programs including the issuance of commercial paper and other financing programs.



GM Financial retains an interest in the securitization transactions in the form of restricted cash accounts and overcollateralization, whereby more receivables are transferred to the securitization trusts than the amount of asset-backed securities issued by the securitization trusts, as well as the estimated future excess cash flows expected to be received by GM Financial over the life of the securitization. Excess cash flows result from the difference between the finance charges received from the obligors on the receivables and the interest paid to investors in the asset-backed securities net of credit losses and expenses.



Excess cash flows in the securitization trusts are initially utilized to fund credit enhancement requirements in order to attain specific credit ratings for the asset-backed securities issued by the securitization trusts. Once targeted credit enhancement requirements are reached and maintained excess cash flows are distributed to GM Financial. In addition to excess cash flows GM Financial receives monthly base servicing fees and collects other fees such as late charges as servicer for securitization trusts.








Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES





Employees



AtDecember 31, 2013we employed219,000employees of whom142,000(65%) were hourly employees and77,000(35%) were salaried employees. The following table summarizes worldwide employment (in thousands):

December 31, 2013December 31, 2012December 31, 2011GMNA(a)10910198GME353739GMIO(b)383934GMSA313233GM Financial(c)643Total Worldwide219213207U.S. - Salaried363029U.S. - Hourly515048

_________

(a)Increase in GMNA employees in the year ended December 31, 2013 includes an increase of approximately 4,000 employees due to insourcing of certain information technology support functions that were previously provided by outside parties and an increase of approximately 3,000 employees due to increase in launches and ramp up in manufacturing volume.

(b)Increase in GMIO employees in the year ended December 31, 2012 includes an increase of 4,000 employees due to the acquisition of GM India.Refer toNote 3to our consolidated financial statements for detail regarding the acquisition.

(c)Increase in GM Financial employees in the year ended December 31, 2013 is due to the acquisition of certain Ally Financial international operations.



AtDecember 31, 201351,000of our U.S. employees (or59%) were represented by unions, a majority of which were represented by the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agriculture Implement Workers of America (UAW).



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The names and ages as of February 6, 2014 of our executive officers and their positions and offices with GM are as follows:





Name and (Age)Present GM Position (and Effective Date)Positions Held During the Past Five Years if Other than Present GM Position (and Effective Date)

Mary T. Barra (52)Chief Executive Officer and Member of the Board of Directors (2014)Executive Vice President, Global Product Development, Purchasing & Supply Chain (2013)Senior Vice President, Global Product Development (2011)Vice President, Global Human Resources (2009)Vice President, Global Manufacturing Engineering (2008)

Daniel Ammann (41)President (2014)Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer (2013)Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer (2011)GM Vice President, Finance & Treasurer (2010)Morgan Stanley - Managing Director and Head of Industrial Investment Banking (2004)

Jaime Ardila (58)Executive Vice President & President, South America (2013)Vice President & President, South America (2010)President and Managing Director of GM Mercosur (2007)

Alan S. Batey (50)Executive Vice President & President, GM North America (2014)Senior Vice President, Global Chevrolet and Brand Chief and U. S. Sales and Marketing (2013)GM Vice President, U.S. Sales and Service, and Interim GM Chief Marketing Officer (2012)Vice President, U.S. Chevrolet Sales and Service (2010)Chairman & Managing Director, Holden, Ltd. (2009)Executive Director, Sales, Marketing & Aftersales, Holden, Ltd. (2006)

James B. DeLuca (52)Executive Vice President, Global Manufacturing (2014)Vice President, Manufacturing, GM International Operations (2013)Vice President, Quality, GM International Operations (2009)Vice President, Quality, GM Asia Pacific and GM Daewoo Auto & Technology (2007)








Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES







Name and (Age)Present GM Position (and Effective Date)Positions Held During the Past Five Years if Other than Present GM Position (and Effective Date)

Stefan Jacoby (55)Executive Vice President Consolidated International Operations (2013)Volvo Car Corporation - Global Chief Executive Officer and President  (2010)Volkswagen Group of America - Chief Executive Officer and President  (2007)

Timothy E. Lee (63)(a)Executive Vice President & Chairman, GM China, Inc. (2014)Executive Vice President, Global Manufacturing & Chairman, GM China, Inc. (2013)Executive Vice President, Global Manufacturing & President, International Operations (2013)GM Vice President, Global Manufacturing & President, International Operations (2012)GM Vice President & President, International Operations (2009)Group Vice President, Global Manufacturing and Labor (2009)GM North America Vice President, Manufacturing (2006)

Michael P. Millikin (65)Executive Vice President & General Counsel (2013)Senior Vice President & General Counsel (2011)GM Vice President & General Counsel (2009)Associate General Counsel (2005)

Karl-Thomas Neumann (52)Executive Vice President & President, GM Europe & Chairman of the Management Board of Adam Opel AG (2013)CEO, Adam Opel AG & President, GM Europe (2013)Volkswagen Group China - Chief Executive Officer and President (2010)Volkswagen Group - Executive Vice President, Electromobility (2009)Continental AG - Chief Executive Officer & Chief Technology Officer, Division Powertrain and President, Division Chassis & Safety (2008)

Mark L. Reuss (50)Executive Vice President, Global Product Development, Purchasing & Supply Chain (2014)Executive Vice President & President, North America (2013)GM Vice President & President, North America (2009)GM Vice President, Global Vehicle Engineering (2009)President & Managing Director, GM Holden, Ltd. (2008)

Charles K. Stevens, III (54)Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer (2014)Chief Financial Officer, GM North America (2010)Interim Chief Financial Officer, GM South America (2011)Executive Director, Finance, GM de Mexico (2008)

Matthew Tsien (53)Executive Vice President & President, GM China, Inc. (2014)GM Consolidated International Operations Vice President, Planning, Program Management, & Strategic Alliances China (2012)Executive Vice President, SAIC GM Wuling (2009)

Thomas Timko (45)GM Vice President, Controller & Chief Accounting Officer (2013)Applied Materials Inc. - Corporate Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer, and Corporate Controller (2010)Delphi Automotive Corporation - Chief Accounting Officer and Controller (2006)

__________

(a)Retiring effective April 1, 2014.



There are no family relationships as defined in Item 401 of Regulation S-K between any of the officers named above and there is no arrangement or understanding between any of the officers named above and any other person pursuant to which he or she was selected as an officer. Each of the officers named above was elected by the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors to hold office until the next annual election of officers and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. The Board of Directors elects the officers immediately following each annual meeting of the stockholders and may appoint other officers between annual meetings.



Segment Reporting Data



Operating segment data and principal geographic area data for the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011are summarized inNote 25to our consolidated financial statements.



Website Access to Our Reports



Our internet website address is www.gm.com. In addition to the information about us and our subsidiaries contained in this2013Form 10-K information about us can be found on our website including information on our corporate governance principles. Our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this2013Form 10-K.








Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES





Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. The address of the SEC's website is www.sec.gov.



*  *  *  *  *  *  *





