Item 1.BUSINESS

The Hershey Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on October 24, 1927 as a successor to a business founded in 1894 by Milton S. Hershey.  In this report, the terms “Hershey,” “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean The Hershey Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and entities in which it has a controlling financial interest, unless the context indicates otherwise.

We are the largest producer of quality chocolate in North America and a global leader in chocolate and sugar confectionery.  We market, sell and distribute our products under more than 80 brand names in approximately 70 countries worldwide.

Reportable Segments

We operate under a matrix reporting structure designed to ensure continued focus on North America, coupled with an emphasis on accelerating growth in our international markets, as we continue to transform into a more global company.  Our business is organized around geographic regions and strategic business units.  It is designed to enable us to build processes for repeatable success in our global markets.  The Presidents of our geographic regions, along with the Senior Vice President responsible for our Global Retail and Licensing business, are accountable for delivering our annual financial plans and report into our CEO, who serves as our Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”), so we have defined our operating segments on a geographic basis.  Because our North America business currently generates over 85% of our consolidated revenue and none of our other geographic regions are individually significant, we have historically presented our business as one reportable segment.  However, given the recent growth in our international business, combined with the September 2014 acquisition of Shanghai Golden Monkey, we have elected to begin reporting our operations within two segments, North America and International and Other, to provide additional transparency into our operations outside of North America.  We have defined our reportable segments as follows:

•North America- This segment is responsible for our chocolate and sugar confectionery market position in the United States and Canada.  This includes developing and growing our business in chocolate, sugar confectionery, refreshment, snack, pantry and food service product lines.

•International and Other- This segment includes all other countries where we currently manufacture, import, market, sell or distribute chocolate, sugar confectionery and other products.  Currently, this includes our operations in Asia, Latin America, Europe, Africa and the Middle East, along with exports to these regions.   While a minor component, this segment also includes our global retail operations, including Hershey’s Chocolate World stores in Hershey, Pennsylvania, New York City, Chicago, Las Vegas, Shanghai, Niagara Falls (Ontario), Dubai and Singapore, as well as operations associated with licensing the use of certain trademarks and products to third parties around the world.

Across our business, we also focus on growth within our three strategic business units - Chocolate, Sweets and Refreshments and Snacks and Adjacencies.  These strategic business units focus on specific components of our product line and are responsible for building and leveraging the Company’s global brands and disseminating best demonstrated practices around the world.   All of our products are marketed and distributed through our existing geographic go-to-market platforms.

Financial and other information regarding our reportable segments is provided in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Business Acquisitions

In September 2014, we completed the acquisition of 80% of the outstanding shares of Shanghai Golden Monkey Food Joint Stock Co., Ltd. (“SGM”), a confectionery company based in Shanghai, China.  SGM operates through six production facilities located in China, and the Golden Monkey product line is primarily sold through traditional trade channels.












In 2014, we also acquired all of the outstanding shares of The Allan Candy Company Limited (“Allan”) headquartered in Ontario, Canada and a controlling interest in Lotte Shanghai Food Company, a joint venture established in 2007 in China for the purpose of manufacturing and selling product to the joint venture partners.  These acquisitions provide us with additional manufacturing and distribution capacity to serve primarily the North America and Asia markets, respectively.

In January 2012, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Brookside Foods Ltd. (“Brookside”), a privately held confectionery company based in Abbottsford, British Columbia, Canada.  As part of this transaction, we acquired two production facilities located in British Columbia and Quebec and expanded our product line to include Brookside’s chocolate covered, fruit-flavored confectionery products.

Products

Our principal confectionery offerings include chocolate and sugar confectionery products; gum and mint refreshment products; pantry items, such as baking ingredients, toppings and beverages; and snack items such as spreads.

•Within our North America markets, our product portfolio includes a wide variety of chocolate offerings marketed and sold under the renowned brands ofHershey’s,Reese’s, andKisses, along with other popular chocolate and sugar confectionery brands such asJolly Rancher,Almond Joy,Brookside,Good & Plenty,Heath,Kit Kat,Lancaster,Payday,Rolo,Twizzlers,WhoppersandYork.  We also offer premium chocolate products, primarily in the U.S., through theScharffen BergerandDagobabrands.  Our refreshment products includingIce Breakersmints and chewing gum,Breathsaversmints, andBubble Yumbubble gum.  Our pantry and snack items that are principally sold in North America include baking products and toppings and sundae syrups sold under theHershey’s,Reese’sandHeathbrands, as well as our new family ofHershey’sandReese’schocolate spreads.

•Within our International and Other markets, we manufacture, market and sell many of these same brands, as well as other brands that are marketed regionally, such asGolden Monkeyconfectionery and snack products in China,Pelon Pelo Ricoconfectionery products in Mexico,IO-IOsnack products in Brazil, andNutrineandMaha Lactoconfectionery products andJumpinandSofitbeverage products in India.

Principal Customers and Marketing Strategy

Our customers are mainly wholesale distributors, chain grocery stores, mass merchandisers, chain drug stores, vending companies, wholesale clubs, convenience stores, dollar stores, concessionaires and department stores.  The majority of our customers, with the exception of wholesale distributors, resell our products to end-consumers in retail outlets in North America and other locations worldwide.

In2014, approximately 25% of our consolidated net sales were made to McLane Company, Inc., one of the largest wholesale distributors in the United States to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers and the primary distributor of our products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

The foundation of our marketing strategy is our strong brand equities, product innovation and the consistently superior quality of our products.  We devote considerable resources to the identification, development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of new products.  We utilize a variety of promotional programs directed towards our customers, as well as advertising and promotional programs for consumers of our products, to stimulate sales of certain products at various times throughout the year.

In conjunction with our sales and marketing efforts, our efficient product distribution network helps us maintain sales growth and provide superior customer service.  We plan optimum stock levels and work with our customers to set reasonable delivery times.  Our distribution network provides for the efficient shipment of our products from our manufacturing plants to strategically located distribution centers.  We primarily use common carriers to deliver our products from these distribution points to our customers.












Raw Materials and Pricing

Cocoa products, including cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder processed from cocoa beans, are the most significant raw materials we use to produce our chocolate products.  These cocoa products are purchased directly from third-party suppliers, who source cocoa beans that are grown principally in Far Eastern, West African and South American equatorial regions.  West Africa accounts for approximately 72% of the world’s supply of cocoa beans.

Adverse weather, crop disease, political unrest and other problems in cocoa-producing countries have caused price fluctuations in the past, but have never resulted in the total loss of a particular producing country’s cocoa crop and/or exports.  In the event that a significant disruption occurs in any given country, we believe cocoa from other producing countries and from current physical cocoa stocks in consuming countries would provide a significant supply buffer.

We also use substantial quantities of sugar, Class II fluid dairy milk, peanuts, almonds and energy in our production process.  Most of these inputs for our domestic and Canadian operations are purchased from suppliers in the United States.  For our international operations, inputs not locally available may be imported from other countries.

We change prices and weights of our products when necessary to accommodate changes in input costs, the competitive environment and profit objectives, while at the same time maintaining consumer value.  Price increases and weight changes help to offset increases in our input costs, including raw and packaging materials, fuel, utilities, transportation and employee benefits.  When we implement price increases, as we did in July 2014 in North America, there is usually a time lag between the effective date of the list price increases and the impact of the price increases on net sales, in part because we honor previous commitments to planned consumer and customer promotions and merchandising events subsequent to the effective date of the price increases.  In addition, promotional allowances may be increased subsequent to the effective date, delaying or partially offsetting the impact of price increases on net sales.

Competition

Many of our brands enjoy wide consumer acceptance and are among the leading brands sold in the marketplace in North America and certain markets in Latin America.  We sell our brands in highly competitive markets with many other global multinational, national, regional and local firms.  Some of our competitors are large companies with significant resources and substantial international operations.  Competition in our product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, as well as convenience and service.

Seasonality and Backlog

Our sales are typically higher during the third and fourth quarters of the year, representing seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns.  We manufacture primarily for stock and typically fill customer orders within a few days of receipt.  Therefore, the backlog of any unfilled orders is not material to our total annual sales.

Trademarks, Service Marks and License Agreements

We own various registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks. The trademarks covering our key product brands are of material importance to our business.  We follow a practice of seeking trademark protection in the U.S. and other key international markets where our products are sold.  We also grant trademark licenses to third parties to produce and sell pantry items, flavored milks and various other products primarily under theHershey’sandReese’sbrand names.












Furthermore, we have rights under license agreements with several companies to manufacture and/or sell and distribute certain products.  Our rights under these agreements are extendible on a long-term basis at our option. Our most significant licensing agreements are as follows:

CompanyBrandLocationRequirementsKraft Foods Ireland Intellectual Property LimitedYorkPeter Paul Almond JoyPeter Paul MoundsWorldwideNoneCadbury UK LimitedCadburyCaramelloUnited StatesMinimum sales requirement exceeded in 2014Société desProduits Nestlé SAKit KatRoloUnited StatesMinimum unit volume sales exceeded in 2014Huhtamäki Oy affiliateGood & PlentyHeathJolly RancherMilk DudsPaydayWhoppersWorldwideNone

Research and Development

We engage in a variety of research and development activities in a number of countries, including the United States, Mexico, Brazil, India and China.  We develop new products, improve the quality of existing products, improve and modernize production processes, and develop and implement new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines.  Information concerning our research and development expense is contained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Food Quality and Safety Regulation

The manufacture and sale of consumer food products is highly regulated.  In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Commerce and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies.  Similar agencies also regulate our businesses outside of the United States.

We believe our Product Excellence Program provides us with an effective product quality and safety program.  This program is integral to our global supply chain platform and is intended to ensure that all products we purchase, manufacture and distribute are safe, are of high quality and comply with applicable laws and regulations.

Through our Product Excellence Program, we evaluate the supply chain including ingredients, packaging, processes, products, distribution and the environment to determine where product quality and safety controls are necessary.  We identify risks and establish controls intended to ensure product quality and safety.  Various government agencies and third-party firms as well as our quality assurance staff conduct audits of all facilities that manufacture our products to assure effectiveness and compliance with our program and applicable laws and regulations.

Environmental Considerations

We made routine operating and capital expenditures during2014to comply with environmental laws and regulations.  These expenditures were not material with respect to our results of operations, capital expenditures or competitive position.












Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2014, we employed approximately 20,800 full-time and 1,650 part-time employees worldwide.  Our employee headcount has increased compared to prior years due mainly to recent acquisitions, most notably SGM. Collective bargaining agreements covered approximately 5,750 employees.  During2015, agreements are expected to be negotiated for certain employees at four facilities outside of the United States, comprising approximately 64% of total employees under collective bargaining agreements.  We believe that our employee relations are good.

Financial Information by Geographic Area

Our principal operations and markets are located in the United States.  The percentage of total consolidated net sales for our businesses outside of the United States was 17.5% for2014, 16.6% for2013and 16.2% for2012.  The percentage of total consolidated assets outside of the United States was 35.4% as ofDecember 31, 2014and 19.4% as ofDecember 31, 2013.

Corporate Social Responsibility

Our founder, Milton S. Hershey, established an enduring model of responsible citizenship while creating a successful business.  Driving sustainable business practices, making a difference in our communities and operating with the highest integrity are vital parts of our heritage.  Milton Hershey School, established by Milton and Catherine Hershey, lies at the center of our unique heritage.  Mr. Hershey donated and bequeathed almost his entire fortune to Milton Hershey School, which remains our primary beneficiary and provides a world-class education and nurturing home to nearly 2,000 children in need annually.  We continue Milton Hershey's legacy of commitment to consumers, community and children by providing high-quality products while conducting our business in a socially responsible and environmentally sustainable manner.

In 2014, we published our third full corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) report, which provided an update on the progress we have made in advancing the priorities that were discussed in our last CSR report.  The report outlined how we performed against the identified performance indicators and unveiled our new CSR framework, titled Shared Goodness.

The safety and health of our employees, and the safety and quality of our products, are at the core of our operations and are areas of ongoing focus.  Our over-arching safety goal is to consistently achieve best in class safety performance.  We continue to invest in our quality management systems to ensure that product quality and food safety remain top priorities.  We carefully monitor and rigorously enforce our high standards of excellence for superior quality, consistency, taste and food safety.

In 2014, Hershey was recognized for its environmental, social and governance performance by being named to both the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and the North America Index.  Hershey is one of only 13 companies from the Food, Beverage and Tobacco Industry recognized in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and ranked in at least the 90th percentile in this evaluation of economic, environmental and social criteria.  The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index tracks the performance of the top 10% of the 2,500 largest companies in the S&P Global Broad Market Index that lead the field in terms of sustainability.

We have committed to minimizing our impact on the environment, regularly reviewing the ways in which we manage our operations and secure our supply of raw materials.  Eleven of our facilities, including six manufacturing sites, have achieved zero-waste-to-landfill status.  At the beginning of 2014, we reset our environmental goals, as we had achieved many of them ahead of schedule.  We now have goals to reduce our environmental impact through efforts such as reducing waste, increasing recycling rates and using water more efficiently.

We focus on promoting fair and ethical business dealings.  A condition of doing business with us is compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines our expectations with regard to our suppliers' commitment to legal compliance and business integrity, social and working conditions, food safety and the environment.

We continue our leadership role in supporting programs to improve the lives of cocoa farming families through a variety of initiatives.  In 2014, we announced our role as a founding member of CocoaAction, a new strategy to align the cocoa sustainability efforts of the world’s largest cocoa and chocolate companies.  This new level of coordination and commitment seeks to build a rejuvenated and economically viable cocoa sector for at least 300,000 cocoa farmers












in Cote d’Ivoire and Ghana by 2020.  Our 21st Century Cocoa Strategy aims to impact more than two million West Africans by 2017 through public/private programs as well as through Hershey initiatives, including CocoaLink, a first-of-its kind approach that uses mobile technology to deliver practical information on agricultural and social programs to rural cocoa farmers.  It is our goal to source 100% certified cocoa for our global chocolate product lines by 2020, assuming adequate supply.  We are progressing ahead of schedule as during 2014, 30% of the cocoa we sourced globally was certified.  Our active engagement and financial support also continues for the World Cocoa Foundation and the International Cocoa Initiative.

Our employees share their time and resources generously in their communities.  Both directly and through the United Way, we contribute to hundreds of agencies that deliver much needed services and resources.  In 2014, Hershey donated more than $8 million in cash and product to worthy causes, including more than $3 million through our United Way Campaign.  In 2014, we expanded our annual week of volunteerism, Good to Give Back Week, around the world.  More than 1,700 employees volunteered with a variety of causes, and over 600 employees in Hershey, Pennsylvania partnered with the nonprofit Stop Hunger Now to pack 210,000 meals for families in need.

Our Company was founded on an enduring social mission – helping children in need.  In North America, we are proud of our Project Fellowship program where employees partner with student homes at the Milton Hershey School, and our longstanding partnership with Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals.  Around the world our employees are supporting local programs, such as an orphanage for special needs children in the Philippines and a children's burn center in Guadalajara, Mexico.

We have also initiated efforts to align our global citizenship priorities with our business expertise in manufacturing high quality food.  We are working with the non-profit organization Project Peanut Butter to advance the treatment of severe malnutrition, the single largest cause of child death in the world today, through the production of locally produced, peanut-based, ready-to-use therapeutic foods.  Hershey has sponsored a new manufacturing facility and feeding clinic and donated significant employee time and expertise to expand this program to Ghana.

Our commitment to CSR is yielding powerful results.  As we expand into new markets and build upon our leadership in North America, we are convinced that our values and heritage will be fundamental to our continuing success.

Available Information

The Company's website address is www.thehersheycompany.com.  We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  You may obtain a copy of any of these reports, free of charge, from the Investors section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.  The SEC maintains an Internet site that also contains these reports at: www.sec.gov.  In addition, copies of the Company's annual report will be made available, free of charge, on written request to the Company.

We have a Code of Ethical Business Conduct that applies to our Board of Directors (“Board”) and all Company officers and employees, including, without limitation, our Chief Executive Officer and “senior financial officers” (including the Interim Principal Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and persons performing similar functions).  You can obtain a copy of our Code of Ethical Business Conduct, as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees, from the Investors section of our website.  If we change or waive any portion of the Code of Ethical Business Conduct that applies to any of our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers, we will post that information on our website.


















