Item 1.BUSINESS

Company Overview

The Hershey Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on
October 24, 1927 as a successor to a business founded in 1894 by Milton S. Hershey. In this report, the terms “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” mean The Hershey Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and
entities in which it has a controlling financial interest, unless the context indicates otherwise.

We are the largest
producer of quality chocolate in North America and a global leader in chocolate and sugar confectionery. Our principal product groups include chocolate and confectionery products; snack products; gum and mint refreshment products; and pantry items,
such as baking ingredients, toppings and beverages.

Reportable Segment

We operate as a single reportable segment in manufacturing, marketing, selling and distributing various package types of chocolate and
confectionery products, pantry items and gum and mint refreshment products under more than 80 brand names. Our five operating segments comprise geographic regions including the United States, Canada, Mexico, Brazil and other international locations,
such as India, Korea, Japan, the Middle East, China and the Philippines. We market confectionery products in approximately 50 countries worldwide.

For segment reporting purposes, we aggregate our operations in the Americas, which comprise the United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil. We base this aggregation on similar economic characteristics;
products and services; production processes; types or classes of customers; distribution methods; and the similar nature of the regulatory environment in each location. We aggregate our other international operations with the Americas to form one
reportable segment. When combined, our other international operations share most of the aggregation criteria and represent less than 10% of consolidated revenues, operating profits and assets.

Selling and Marketing Organization

Our selling and marketing organization is comprised of Hershey North America, Hershey International and the Global Marketing Group. This organization is designed to:



•Leverage our marketing and sales leadership in the United States and Canada;



•Focus on key strategic growth areas in global markets; and



•Build capabilities that capitalize on unique consumer and customer trends.

Hershey North America

Hershey North America has responsibility for continuing to build our chocolate and confectionery market position, while capitalizing on our scale in the U.S. and Canada. This organization leverages our
ability to capitalize on the unique consumer and customer trends within each country. This includes developing and growing our business in our chocolate, sugar confectionery, refreshment, pantry, and food service product lines. A component of
Hershey North America, The Hershey Experience, manages our retail operations within the United States that include Hershey’s Chocolate World in Hershey, Pennsylvania; Hershey’s Times Square in New York, New York; and Hershey’s Chicago
in Chicago, Illinois.

Hershey International

Hershey International markets chocolate and confectionery products, beverages and pantry items worldwide and has responsibility for pursuing
profitable growth opportunities in key markets, primarily in Latin America and Asia. This organization is responsible for international subsidiaries that manufacture, import, market, sell or distribute chocolate, confectionery and beverage products
in Mexico, Brazil and India.






Hershey International manufactures confectionery products for the markets in Asia, particularly in China, under a manufacturing agreement with Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd.

A component of Hershey International, International Marketing and Innovation, manages our Hershey’s Shanghai retail attraction in
Shanghai, China.

Global Marketing Group

Our Global Marketing Group has responsibility for building global brands, developing transformational growth platforms, brand positioning and
portfolio strategy. This organization also develops market-specific insights, strategies and platform innovation for Hershey North America and Hershey International.

Products

United States

The primary chocolate and confectionery products we sell in the United States include the following:



Under theHERSHEY’Sbrand franchise:HERSHEY’Smilk chocolate barHERSHEY’S BLISSchocolatesHERSHEY’Smilk chocolate bar with almondsHERSHEY’S COOKIES ‘N’ CRÈMEcandy barHERSHEY’SExtra Dark chocolatesHERSHEY’S POT OF GOLDboxed chocolatesHERSHEY’S MINIATURESchocolate candyHERSHEY’S SUGAR FREEchocolate candyHERSHEY’S NUGGETSchocolatesHERSHEY’S HUGScandiesHERSHEY’S STICKSchocolatesUnder theREESE’Sbrand franchise:REESE’Speanut butter cupsREESE’S SUGAR FREEpeanut butter cupsREESE’SPIECEScandyREESE’Scrispy crunchy barREESE’S BIG CUPpeanut butter cupsREESE’S WHIPPSnougat barREESE’S NUTRAGEOUScandy barREESESTICKSwafer barsREESE’SClusters candyFAST BREAKcandy barUnder theKISSESbrand franchise:HERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolatesHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolatesHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolateswith cherry cordial crèmewith almondsHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolatesHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand chocolate meltaway milk chocolatesfilled with caramel

Our other chocolate and
confectionery products sold in the United States include the following:



5thAVENUEcandy barALMOND JOYcandy barCADBURYchocolatesCARAMELLOcandy barGOOD & PLENTYcandyHEATHtoffee barJOLLY RANCHERcandyJOLLY RANCHERsugar free hard candyKIT KATwafer barMILK DUDScandyMOUNDScandy barMR. GOODBARcandy barPAYDAYpeanut caramel barROLOcaramels in milk chocolateSKORtoffee barSPECIAL DARKchocolate barSYMPHONYmilk chocolate barSYMPHONYmilk chocolate bar with almonds and toffeeTAKE5candy barTWIZZLERScandyWHATCHAMACALLITcandy barWHOPPERSmalted milk ballsYORKpeppermint pattieYORKsugar free peppermint pattieZAGNUTcandy barZEROcandy bar






We also sell products in the United States under the following product lines:

Premium products

Artisan Confections Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hershey Company, marketsSCHARFFEN BERGERhigh-cacao dark chocolate products, andDAGOBAnatural and organic chocolate products. OurSCHARFFEN BERGERproducts include chocolate bars, tasting squares, home baking products and professional chocolate and cocoa items.DAGOBAproducts include chocolate bars, drinking chocolate and baking products.

Snack products

Our snack products includeHERSHEY’S SNACKSTERSsnack mix;HERSHEY’SandREESE’Sgranola bars;REESE’S SNACK BARZandMAUNA LOAmacadamia snack nuts and cookies in several varieties.

Refreshment products

Our line of refreshment products includesICE BREAKERSmints and chewing gum,BREATH SAVERSmints,BUBBLE YUMbubble gum andYORKmints.

Pantry items

Pantry items includeHERSHEY’S, REESE’S, HEATH, andSCHARFFEN BERGERbaking products. Our toppings and sundae syrups includeREESE’S,HEATHandHERSHEY’S. We sell hot cocoa mix under
theHERSHEY’S, HERSHEY’S GOODNIGHT HUGSandHERSHEY’S GOODNIGHT KISSESbrand names.

Canada

Principal products we sell in Canada areHERSHEY’Smilk chocolate bars and milk chocolate bars with
almonds;OH HENRY!candy bars;REESE PEANUT BUTTER CUPScandy;HERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolates;TWIZZLERScandy;GLOSETTEchocolate-covered raisins, peanuts and almonds;JOLLY RANCHERcandy;WHOPPERSmalted milk balls;SKORtoffee bars;EAT MOREcandy bars;POT OF GOLDboxed chocolates; andCHIPITSchocolate chips.

Mexico

We manufacture, import, market, sell and distribute
chocolate and confectionery products in Mexico, includingHERSHEY’S,KISSES,JOLLY RANCHER, andPELÓN PELO RICOchocolate, confectionery and beverage items.

Brazil

We manufacture, import and market chocolate and confectionery products in Brazil, includingHERSHEY’Schocolate and confectionery items andIO-IOitems.

India

We manufacture, market, sell and distribute confectionery, beverage and cooking oil products in India, includingNUTRINEandGODREJconfectionery and beverage products.

Customers

Full-time sales
representatives and food brokers sell our products to our customers. Our customers are mainly wholesale distributors, chain grocery stores, mass merchandisers, chain drug stores, vending companies,






wholesale clubs, convenience stores, dollar stores, concessionaires, department stores and natural food stores. Our customers then resell our products to end-consumers in over 2 million
retail outlets in North America and other locations worldwide. In 2009, sales to McLane Company, Inc., one of the largest wholesale distributors in the United States to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers,
amounted to approximately 27% of our total net sales. McLane Company, Inc. is the primary distributor of our products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

Marketing Strategy and Seasonality

The foundation of our marketing strategy is our strong brand equities,
product innovation, the consistently superior quality of our products, our manufacturing expertise and mass distribution capabilities. We also devote considerable resources to the identification, development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of
new products. We have a variety of promotional programs for our customers as well as advertising and promotional programs for consumers of our products. We use our promotional programs to stimulate sales of certain products at various times
throughout the year. Our sales are typically higher during the third and fourth quarters of the year, representing seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns.

Product Distribution

In conjunction with our sales and marketing efforts,
our efficient product distribution network helps us maintain sales growth and provide superior customer service. We plan optimum stock levels and work with our customers to set reasonable delivery times. Our distribution network provides for the
efficient shipment of our products from our manufacturing plants to distribution centers strategically located throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico. We primarily use common carriers to deliver our products from these distribution points
to our customers.

Price Changes

We change prices and weights of our products when necessary to accommodate changes in costs, the competitive environment and profit objectives, while at the same time maintaining consumer value. Price
increases and weight changes help to offset increases in our input costs, including raw and packaging materials, fuel, utilities, transportation, and employee benefits.

In August 2008, we announced an increase in wholesale prices across the United States, Puerto Rico and export chocolate and sugar confectionery lines. This price increase was effective immediately, and
represented a weighted-average 11% increase on our instant consumable, multi-pack and packaged candy lines. These changes approximated a 10% increase over the entire domestic product line.

In January 2008, we announced an increase in the wholesale prices of our domestic confectionery line, effective immediately. This price
increase applied to our standard bar, king-size bar, 6-pack and vending lines and represented a weighted-average increase of approximately 13% on these items. These price changes approximated a 3% increase over our entire domestic product line.

In April 2007, we announced an increase of approximately 4% to 5% in the wholesale prices of our domestic confectionery line,
effective immediately. The price increase applied to our standard bar, king-size bar, 6-pack and vending lines. These products represent approximately one-third of our U.S. confectionery portfolio.

Usually there is a time lag between the effective date of list price increases and the impact of the price increases on net sales. The
impact of price increases is often delayed because we honor previous commitments to planned consumer and customer promotions and merchandising events subsequent to the effective date of the price increases. In addition, promotional allowances may be
increased subsequent to the effective date, delaying or partially offsetting the impact of price increases on net sales.






Raw Materials

Cocoa products are the most significant raw materials we use to produce our chocolate products. Cocoa products, including cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder processed from cocoa beans, are used
to meet manufacturing requirements. Cocoa products are purchased directly from third party suppliers. These third party suppliers source cocoa beans which are grown principally in Far Eastern, West African and South American equatorial regions. West
Africa accounts for approximately 70% of the world’s supply of cocoa beans.

Historically, there have been instances of
adverse weather, crop disease, civil disruptions, and other problems in cocoa-producing countries that have caused price fluctuations, but have never resulted in total loss of a particular producing country’s cocoa crop and/or exports. In the
event that such a disruption would occur in any given country, we believe cocoa from other producing countries and from current physical cocoa stocks in consuming countries would provide a significant supply buffer.

During 2009, the average cocoa futures contract prices increased compared with 2008, and traded in a range between $1.10 and $1.52 per
pound, based on the IntercontinentalExchange futures contract. Cocoa futures prices during 2009 traded at prices which were near 30-year highs. The significant increase in cocoa futures prices reflected the impact of a weakening U.S. dollar as
compared with other currencies, and an increase in asset allocation into commodity-based investments by various hedge funds. The table below shows annual average cocoa prices, and the highest and lowest monthly averages for each of the calendar
years indicated. The prices are the monthly averages of the quotations at noon of the three active futures trading contracts closest to maturity on the IntercontinentalExchange.



Cocoa Futures Contract Prices(dollars
per pound)20092008200720062005Annual Average$1.28$1.19$.86$.70$.68High1.521.50.95.75.79Low1.10.86.75.67.64



Source: International Cocoa Organization Quarterly Bulletin of Cocoa Statistics

Our costs will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices, premiums and
discounts reflective of varying delivery times, and supply and demand for our specific varieties and grades of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder. As a result, the average futures contract prices are not necessarily indicative of our
average costs.

The Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008, which is a five-year farm bill, impacts the prices of sugar,
corn, peanuts and dairy products because it sets price support levels for these commodities.

During 2009, dairy prices
started the year near $.13 per pound and dropped to approximately $.10 per pound on a class II fluid milk basis. Prices were weak in the face of strong production of milk and dairy products, and sluggish demand worldwide. Our costs for certain dairy
products may not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing practices.

The price of
sugar is subject to price supports under U.S. farm legislation. This legislation establishes import quotas and duties to support the price of sugar. As a result, sugar prices paid by users in the U.S. are currently substantially higher than prices
on the world sugar market. In 2009, sugar supplies in the U.S. continued to be negatively impacted by the 2008 catastrophic explosion at a sugar cane refinery in Georgia and by high world market prices. As a result, refined sugar prices remained
firm, trading in a range from $.38 to $.50 per pound. Our costs for sugar will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations primarily because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices.






Peanut prices in the U.S. began the year around $.49 per pound and gradually decreased
during the year to $.46 per pound due to the effects of last year’s large crop. Almond prices began the year at $1.60 per pound and increased to $1.95 per pound during the year driven by record demand which increased 19% over last year.

We attempt to minimize the effect of future price fluctuations related to the purchase of major raw materials and certain
energy requirements primarily through forward purchasing to cover our future requirements, generally for periods from 3 to 24 months. We enter into futures contracts to manage price risks for cocoa products, sugar, corn sweeteners, natural gas, fuel
oil and certain dairy products. However, the dairy futures markets are not as developed as many of the other commodities futures markets and, therefore, generally it is not possible to hedge our costs for dairy products by entering into futures
contracts to extend coverage for longer periods of time. Currently, active futures contracts are not available for use in pricing our other major raw material requirements. For more information on price risks associated with our major raw material
requirements, see Commodities—Price Risk Management and Futures Contracts on page 39.

Product Sourcing

We are the primary manufacturer of the products we sell. In addition, we contract with third party suppliers to source certain ingredients
and finished goods. We enter into manufacturing contracts with third parties to improve our strategic competitive position and determine cost effective production and sourcing of our products.

Competition

Many of our
brands enjoy wide consumer acceptance and are among the leading brands sold in the marketplace in North America. We sell our brands in a highly competitive market with many other multinational, national, regional and local firms. Some of our
competitors are much larger firms that have greater resources and more substantial international operations.






Trademarks, Service Marks and License Agreements

We own various registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks, and have rights under licenses to use various trademarks that are of
material importance to our business.

We have license agreements with several companies to manufacture and/or sell certain
products. Our rights under these agreements are extendible on a long-term basis at our option. Our most significant licensing agreements are as follows:



CompanyTypeBrandLocationRequirementsCadbury Ireland LimitedLicense to manufacture and/or sell and distribute confectionery productsYORKPETER PAUL ALMOND JOYPETER PAUL MOUNDSWorldwideNoneCadbury UK LimitedCADBURYCARAMELLOUnited StatesMinimum sales requirement exceeded in 2009Société desProduits Nestlé SALicense to manufacture and distribute confectionery productsKIT KATROLOUnited StatesMinimum unit volume sales exceeded in 2009Huhtamäki Oy affiliateCertain trademark licenses for confectionery productsGOOD & PLENTYHEATHJOLLY RANCHERMILK DUDSPAYDAYWHOPPERSWorldwideNone

We also grant trademark licenses to third parties to produce and sell pantry items, flavored milks and various other products primarily under theHERSHEY’SandREESE’Sbrand names.

Backlog of Orders

We
manufacture primarily for stock and fill customer orders from finished goods inventories. While at any given time there may be some backlog of orders, this backlog is not material in respect to our total annual sales, nor are the changes, from time
to time, significant.

Research and Development

We engage in a variety of research and development activities. We develop new products, improve the quality of existing products, improve and modernize production processes, and develop and implement new
technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines. Information concerning our research and development expense is contained in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies.






Food Quality and Safety Regulation

The manufacture and sale of consumer food products is highly regulated. In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by
various government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Commerce and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies.
Similar agencies also regulate our businesses outside of the United States.

Our Product Excellence Program provides us with
an effective product quality and safety program. This program assures that all products we purchase, manufacture and distribute are safe, are of high quality and comply with all applicable laws and regulations.

Through our Product Excellence Program, we evaluate the supply chain including ingredients, packaging, processes, products, distribution and
the environment to determine where product quality and safety controls are necessary. We identify risks and establish controls to assure product quality and safety. Various government agencies, third party firms and our quality assurance staff
conduct audits of all facilities that manufacture our products to assure effectiveness and compliance with our program and all applicable laws and regulations.

Environmental Considerations

We made routine operating and capital
expenditures during 2009 to comply with environmental laws and regulations. These expenditures were not material with respect to our results of operations, capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 12,100 full-time and 1,600 part-time employees worldwide. Collective bargaining agreements covered approximately 5,000 employees for which agreements covering approximately 43% of these employees,
primarily outside of the United States, will expire during 2010. We believe that our employee relations are good.

Financial Information by
Geographic Area

Our principal operations and markets are located in the United States. The percentage of total
consolidated net sales for our businesses outside of the United States was 14.3% for 2009, 14.4% for 2008 and 13.8% for 2007. The percentage of total consolidated assets outside of the United States as of December 31, 2009 was 17.5% and as of
December 31, 2008 was 16.0%. Operating profit margins vary among individual products and product groups.

Corporate Social
Responsibility

Our founder, Milton S. Hershey, established an enduring model of responsible citizenship while creating a
successful business. Making a difference in our communities, driving sustainable business practices and operating with the highest integrity are vital parts of our heritage and shapes our future.

Milton Hershey School, established by Milton and Catherine Hershey, lies at the center of our unique heritage. Mr. Hershey donated and
bequeathed almost his entire fortune to the Milton Hershey School, which remains our primary beneficiary and provides a world-class education and nurturing home to nearly 2,000 children in need annually.

During 2009, we participated in the commemoration of Milton Hershey School’s 100th Anniversary through a series of educational and
outreach events. The anniversary celebration received wide local and national media coverage, highlighting our brands and our heritage and providing unique promotional opportunities for our products. By building awareness, the outreach initiatives
also help the school recruit students and staff.






We practice environmental stewardship by reducing waste and greenhouse gas emissions, by
reducing our use of natural resources, by improving the environmental sustainability of our packaging and by supporting environmentally sound cocoa farming and environmental organizations.

During 2009, we participated for the first time in the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is an independent not-for-profit organization
holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. Through this submission, we assessed the impact of climate change on our business as well as our plans to address the impact of climate change on
Hershey’s operations around the world. Hershey achieved a score of 64 out of 100 placing us in the top tier of our peer group. We implemented an energy and water conservation audit program in 2009. We are a member of the Climate Registry
and were recognized as a Climate Leader by this organization in 2009.

Our employees and retirees share their time and
resources generously in their communities. Both directly and through the United Way, we contribute to hundreds of agencies that deliver much needed services and resources. In 2009 we introduced the “Dollars for Doers” program that
encourages community service by making select company contributions to non-profits in recognition of employee volunteer efforts. Our focus on “Kids and Kids at Risk” is supported through the Children’s Miracle Network, Family Health
International and a children’s burn center in Guadalajara, Mexico, to name a few of the organizations we support.

We are
a leader in working to improve the lives of cocoa farming families through our active engagement and financial support for the World Cocoa Foundation, the International Cocoa Initiative, Farmer Field Schools, the Sustainable Tree Crops program and
other key initiatives.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the
United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may obtain a copy of any of these reports, free of charge, from the Investor Relations section of our website,www.hersheys.comshortly after we file or furnish the
information to the SEC.

You may obtain a copy of any of these reports directly from the SEC. Contact the SEC via fax at
202-772-9295 or by submitting a written request to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-0213. These documents are also available electronically from the SEC
internet website atwww.sec.gov. You can obtain additional information on how to request public documents from the SEC on their website. The phone number for information about the operation of the SEC Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
is 202-551-8090.

We have a Code of Ethical Business Conduct that applies to our Board of Directors, all company officers and
employees, including, without limitation, our Chief Executive Officer and “senior financial officers” (including the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and persons performing similar functions). You can obtain a copy of our
Code of Ethical Business Conduct from the Investor Relations section of our website,www.hersheys.com. If we change or waive any portion of the Code of Ethical Business Conduct that applies to any of our directors, executive officers or
senior financial officers, we will post that information on our website within four business days. In the case of a waiver, such information will include the name of the person to whom the waiver applied, along with the date and type of waiver.

We also post our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees in the
Investor Relations section of our website,www.hersheys.com. The Board of Directors adopted these Guidelines and charters.

We will provide to any stockholder a copy of one or more of the Exhibits listed in Part IV of this report, upon request. We charge a small copying fee for these exhibits to cover our costs. To request a copy of any of these documents, you
can contact us at—The Hershey Company, Attn: Investor Relations Department, 100 Crystal A Drive, Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033-0810.






