Item 1.BUSINESS

The Hershey Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on October 24, 1927 as a successor to a business founded in 1894 by Milton S. Hershey. In this report, the terms
“Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” mean The Hershey Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and entities in which it has a controlling financial interest, unless the context indicates otherwise.

We are the largest producer of quality chocolate in North America and a global leader in chocolate and sugar confectionery. Our principal
product groups include chocolate and sugar confectionery products; pantry items, such as baking ingredients, toppings and beverages; and gum and mint refreshment products.

Reportable Segment

We operate as a single reportable segment in
manufacturing, marketing, selling and distributing our products under more than 80 brand names. Our three operating segments comprise geographic regions including the United States, the Americas, and Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. We
market our products in approximately 70 countries worldwide.

For segment reporting purposes, we aggregate our operations in
the United States and in the Americas, which includes Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Central America, Puerto Rico and our global exports business. We base this aggregation on similar economic characteristics; products and services; production processes;
types or classes of customers; distribution methods; and the similar nature of the regulatory environment in each location. We aggregate our Asia/Europe/Middle East and Africa operations with the United States and the Americas to form one reportable
segment. When combined, these operations share most of the aggregation criteria and represent less than 10% of our consolidated revenues, operating profits and assets.

Organization

We operate under a matrix reporting structure designed to
ensure continued focus on North America and on continuing our transformation into a more global company. Our business is organized around geographic regions and strategic business units. It is designed to enable us to build processes for repeatable
success in our global markets.

Our geographic regions are accountable for delivering our annual financial plans. The key
regions are:



•The United States;



•The Americas, including Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Central America, Puerto Rico and global exports; and



•Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.

In addition, The Hershey Experience manages our retail operations globally, including Hershey’s Chocolate World in Hershey, Pennsylvania, and Hershey’s retail stores in New York City, Chicago,
Niagara Falls (Ontario), Shanghai, Dubai, and Singapore.

Our two strategic business units are the chocolate business unit and
the sweets and refreshment business unit. These strategic business units focus on certain components of our product line and are responsible for building and leveraging Hershey’s global brands, and disseminating best demonstrated practices
around the world.






Products

United States

The primary products we sell in the United States
include the following:



Under theHERSHEY’Sbrand franchise:HERSHEY’Smilk chocolate barHERSHEY’Smilk chocolate with almonds barHERSHEY’SExtra Dark candyHERSHEY’S NUGGETSchocolatesHERSHEY’S DROPSchocolatesHERSHEY’S AIR DELIGHTaerated milk
chocolateHERSHEY’S MINIATURESchocolate candyHERSHEY’S BLISSchocolatesHERSHEY’S COOKIES ‘N’ CRÈMEcandy barHERSHEY’S COOKIES
‘N’ CRÈME DROPScandyHERSHEY’S POT OF GOLDboxed chocolatesHERSHEY’Ssugar free chocolate candyHERSHEY’S HUGScandiesUnder theREESE’Sbrand franchise:REESE’Speanut butter cupsREESE’Speanut butter cups minisREESE’S PIECEScandyREESE’S BIG CUPpeanut butter cupsREESE’S NUTRAGEOUScandy barREESE’Ssugar free peanut butter cupsREESE’Scrispy and crunchy barREESE’S WHIPPScandy barREESESTICKSwafer barsREESE’S FAST BREAKcandy barUnder theKISSESbrand franchise:HERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolatesHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolates with almondsHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand
milk chocolates with cherry cordial crèmeHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand chocolate meltaway milk chocolatesHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolates filled with caramelHERSHEY’S KISSESbrandSPECIAL DARKchocolatesHERSHEY’S KISSES AIR
DELIGHTaerated milk chocolates

Our other products we sell in the United States include the following:



5thAVENUEcandy barALMOND
JOYcandy barALMOND JOY PIECEScandyCADBURYchocolatesCARAMELLOcandy barGOOD & PLENTYcandyHEATHtoffee barJOLLY RANCHERcandyJOLLY RANCHERsugar free candyKIT
KATwafer barMILK DUDScandyMOUNDScandy barMR. GOODBARchocolate barPAYDAYpeanut caramel barROLOcaramels in milk chocolateSKORtoffee barSPECIAL DARKchocolate barSPECIAL DARK PIECEScandySYMPHONYmilk chocolate barSYMPHONYmilk chocolate bar with almonds and toffeeTAKE5candy barTHINGAMAJIGcandy barTWIZZLERScandyTWIZZLERSsugar
free candyWHATCHAMACALLITcandy barWHOPPERSmalted milk ballsYORKpeppermint pattieYORKsugar free peppermint pattieYORK
PIECEScandyZAGNUTcandy barZEROcandy bar






We also sell products in the United States under the following product lines:

Premium products

Artisan Confections Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hershey Company, marketsSCHARFFEN BERGERhigh-cacao dark chocolate products, andDAGOBAnatural and organic chocolate products.
OurSCHARFFEN BERGERproducts include chocolate bars, tasting squares and home baking products.DAGOBAproducts include chocolate bars, drinking chocolate and baking products.

Snack products

Our snack products includeHERSHEY’S100 calorie bars in several varieties, andMAUNA LOAmacadamia snack nuts.

Refreshment products

Our line of refreshment products includesICE
BREAKERSmints and chewing gum,ICE BREAKERS ICE CUBESchewing gum,BREATH SAVERSmints, andBUBBLE YUMbubble gum.

Pantry items

Pantry items includeHERSHEY’S, REESE’S,
HEATH, andSCHARFFEN BERGERbaking products. Our toppings and sundae syrups includeREESE’S,HEATHandHERSHEY’S. We sell hot cocoa mix under theHERSHEY’S BLISSbrand name.

Americas

The primary products we sell in the Americas include the following:

Canada

Principal products we sell in Canada areHERSHEY’Smilk chocolate bars and milk chocolate with almonds bars;OH HENRY!candy bars;REESE PEANUT BUTTER CUPScandy;HERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolates;TWIZZLERScandy;GLOSETTEchocolate-covered raisins, peanuts and almonds;JOLLY RANCHERcandy;WHOPPERSmalted milk balls;SKORtoffee bars;EAT MOREcandy bars;POT OF GOLDboxed chocolates; andCHIPITSchocolate chips.

Mexico

We manufacture, import, market, sell and distribute chocolate,
sweets, refreshment and beverage products in Mexico, under theHERSHEY’S,KISSES,JOLLY RANCHERandPELÓN PELO RICObrands.

Brazil

We manufacture, import and market chocolate, sweets and refreshment
products in Brazil, includingHERSHEY’Schocolate and confectionery items andIO-IOitems.

Global Exports

We also import, market, sell and distribute chocolate, sweets and refreshment products in Central America and Puerto Rico, and export products to approximately 70 countries worldwide.






Asia, Europe, Middle East and Africa

We manufacture, market, sell and distribute sugar confectionery, beverage and cooking oil products in India, includingNUTRINEandGODREJconfectionery and beverage products. We market, sell and distribute chocolate products in China, primarily under theHERSHEY’SandKISSESbrands. We market, sell and distribute chocolate products in the Middle East,
primarily under theHERSHEY’S, REESE’SandKISSESbrands. We license theVAN HOUTENbrand name and related trademarks to sell chocolate products, cocoa, and baking products in Asia and the Middle East for the retail
and duty-free distribution channels.

Customers

Full-time sales representatives and food brokers sell our products to our customers. Our customers are mainly wholesale distributors, chain grocery stores, mass merchandisers, chain drug stores, vending
companies, wholesale clubs, convenience stores, dollar stores, concessionaires and department stores. Our customers then resell our products to end-consumers in retail outlets in North America and other locations worldwide. In 2011, sales to McLane
Company, Inc., one of the largest wholesale distributors in the United States to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, amounted to approximately 22.3% of our total net sales. McLane Company, Inc. is the primary
distributor of our products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

Marketing Strategy and Seasonality

The foundation of our marketing strategy is our strong brand equities, product innovation and the consistently superior quality of our
products. We devote considerable resources to the identification, development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of new products. We have a variety of promotional programs for our customers as well as advertising and promotional programs for
consumers of our products. We use our promotional programs to stimulate sales of certain products at various times throughout the year. Our sales are typically higher during the third and fourth quarters of the year, representing seasonal and
holiday-related sales patterns.

Product Distribution

In conjunction with our sales and marketing efforts, our efficient product distribution network helps us maintain sales growth and provide superior customer service. We plan optimum stock levels and work
with our customers to set reasonable delivery times. Our distribution network provides for the efficient shipment of our products from our manufacturing plants to strategically located distribution centers. We primarily use common carriers to
deliver our products from these distribution points to our customers.

Price Changes

We change prices and weights of our products when necessary to accommodate changes in costs, the competitive environment and profit
objectives, while at the same time maintaining consumer value. Price increases and weight changes help to offset increases in our input costs, including raw and packaging materials, fuel, utilities, transportation, and employee benefits.

In March 2011, we announced a weighted-average increase in wholesale prices of approximately 9.7% across the majority of our U.S., Puerto
Rico and export portfolio, effective immediately. The price increase applied to our instant consumable, multi-pack, packaged candy and grocery lines. Direct buying customers were able to purchase transitional amounts of product into May, and we do
not expect seasonal net price realization until Easter 2012. We expect the full financial impact from this pricing action to impact our earnings in 2012, substantially offsetting increases in input costs.

Usually there is a time lag between the effective date of list price increases and the impact of the price increases on net sales. The
impact of price increases is often delayed because we honor previous commitments to






planned consumer and customer promotions and merchandising events subsequent to the effective date of the price increases. In addition, promotional allowances may be increased subsequent to the
effective date, delaying or partially offsetting the impact of price increases on net sales.

Raw Materials

Cocoa products are the most significant raw materials we use to produce our chocolate products. Cocoa products, including cocoa liquor,
cocoa butter and cocoa powder processed from cocoa beans, are used to meet manufacturing requirements. Cocoa products are purchased directly from third party suppliers. These third party suppliers source cocoa beans which are grown principally in
Far Eastern, West African and South American equatorial regions. West Africa accounts for approximately 70% of the world’s supply of cocoa beans.

Historically, there have been instances of adverse weather, crop disease, civil disruptions, and other problems in cocoa-producing countries that have caused price fluctuations, but have never resulted in
total loss of a particular producing country’s cocoa crop and/or exports. In the event that such a disruption would occur in any given country, we believe cocoa from other producing countries and from current physical cocoa stocks in consuming
countries would provide a significant supply buffer.

During 2011, average cocoa futures contract prices traded in a range
between $0.99 and $1.55 per pound, based on the IntercontinentalExchange futures contract. During the first half of 2011, cocoa futures traded at prices that were near 30-year highs. During the fourth quarter of 2011, cocoa futures prices declined
significantly due to a very large West African crop which resulted in a substantial global surplus for the year. The table below shows annual average cocoa prices, and the highest and lowest monthly averages for each of the calendar years indicated.
The prices are the monthly averages of the quotations at noon of the three active futures trading contracts closest to maturity on the IntercontinentalExchange.



Cocoa Futures Contract Prices(dollars
per pound)20112010200920082007Annual Average$1.34$1.36$1.28$1.19$.86High1.551.531.521.50.95Low0.991.261.10.86.75



Source: International Cocoa Organization Quarterly Bulletin of Cocoa Statistics

Our costs will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices, premiums and
discounts reflective of varying delivery times, and supply and demand for our specific varieties and grades of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder. As a result, the average futures contract prices are not necessarily indicative of our
average costs.

The Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008, which is a five-year farm bill, impacts the prices of sugar,
corn, peanuts and dairy products because it sets price support levels for these commodities.

During 2011, prices for fluid
milk ranged from a low of $0.17 to a high of $0.21 per pound, on a class II fluid milk basis. Prices were substantially higher than the prior year due to strong export demand for dairy products and high feed costs. Our costs for certain dairy
products may not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing practices.

The price of
sugar is subject to price supports under U.S. farm legislation. This legislation establishes import quotas and duties to support the price of sugar. As a result, sugar prices paid by users in the U.S. are currently substantially higher than prices
on the world sugar market. In 2011, sugar supplies in the U.S. were negatively impacted by government import restrictions, strong demand and high world market prices. As a result,






refined sugar prices increased significantly compared to 2010, trading in a range from $0.57 to $0.64 per pound. Our costs for sugar will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations
primarily because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices.

Peanut prices in the U.S. began the year around $0.56 per
pound and increased late in the year to $1.25 per pound. Prices were driven higher by loss of acreage to cotton and corn along with drought conditions negatively impacting this year’s crop yields. Almond prices began the year at $2.40 per pound
and decreased to $2.10 per pound during the year driven by record production. Our costs for peanuts and almonds will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing practices.

We attempt to minimize the effect of future price fluctuations related to the purchase of major raw materials and certain energy
requirements primarily through forward purchasing to cover our future requirements, generally for periods from 3 to 24 months. We enter into futures contracts and other commodity derivative instruments to manage price risks for cocoa products,
sugar, corn sweeteners, natural gas, fuel oil and certain dairy products. However, the dairy futures markets are not as developed as many of the other commodities futures markets and, therefore, generally it is difficult to hedge our costs for dairy
products by entering into futures contracts and other derivative instruments to extend coverage for long periods of time. Currently, active futures contracts are not available for use in pricing our other major raw material requirements. For more
information on price risks associated with our major raw material requirements, see Commodities—Price Risk Management and Futures Contracts on page 39.

Product Sourcing

We manufacture or contract to our specifications for the
manufacture of the products we sell. In addition, we contract with third party suppliers to source certain ingredients. We enter into manufacturing contracts with third parties to improve our strategic competitive position and achieve cost effective
production and sourcing of our products.

Competition

Many of our brands enjoy wide consumer acceptance and are among the leading brands sold in the marketplace in North America. We sell our brands in highly competitive markets with many other multinational,
national, regional and local firms. Some of our competitors are much larger firms that have greater resources and more substantial international operations.

Trademarks, Service Marks and License Agreements

We own various registered
and unregistered trademarks and service marks, and have rights under licenses to use various trademarks that are of material importance to our business. We also grant trademark licenses to third parties to produce and sell pantry items, flavored
milks and various other products primarily under theHERSHEY’SandREESE’Sbrand names.






We have license agreements with several companies to manufacture and/or sell and distribute
certain products. Our rights under these agreements are extendible on a long-term basis at our option. Our most significant licensing agreements are as follows:



CompanyBrandLocationRequirementsCadbury Ireland LimitedYORKPETER PAUL ALMOND JOYPETER PAUL MOUNDSWorldwideNoneCadbury UK LimitedCADBURYCARAMELLOUnited StatesMinimum sales requirement exceeded in 2011Société desProduits Nestlé SAKIT KATROLOUnited StatesMinimum unit volume sales exceeded in 2011Huhtamäki Oy affiliateGOOD & PLENTYHEATHJOLLY RANCHERMILK DUDSPAYDAYWHOPPERSWorldwideNone

Backlog of Orders

We manufacture primarily for stock and fill customer orders from finished goods inventories. While at any given time there may be some backlog of orders, this backlog is not material in respect to our
total annual sales, nor are the changes, from time to time, significant.

Research and Development

We engage in a variety of research and development activities in a number of countries, including the United States, Mexico, Brazil and
India. We develop new products, improve the quality of existing products, improve and modernize production processes, and develop and implement new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines. Information
concerning our research and development expense is contained in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.

Food Quality and Safety Regulation

The manufacture and sale of consumer
food products is highly regulated. In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department
of Commerce and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. Similar agencies also regulate our businesses outside of the United States.

Our Product Excellence Program provides us with an effective product quality and safety program. This program assures that all products we purchase, manufacture and distribute are safe, are of high
quality and comply with all applicable laws and regulations.






Through our Product Excellence Program, we evaluate the supply chain including ingredients,
packaging, processes, products, distribution and the environment to determine where product quality and safety controls are necessary. We identify risks and establish controls to assure product quality and safety. Various government agencies, third
party firms and our quality assurance staff conduct audits of all facilities that manufacture our products to assure effectiveness and compliance with our program and all applicable laws and regulations.

Environmental Considerations

We made routine operating and capital expenditures during 2011 to comply with environmental laws and regulations. These expenditures were not material with respect to our results of operations, capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 11,800 full-time and 2,000 part-time employees worldwide. Collective bargaining agreements covered approximately 4,800 employees. During 2012,
agreements will be negotiated for certain employees at five facilities outside of the United States, comprising approximately 61% of total employees under collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good.

Financial Information by Geographic Area

Our principal operations and markets are located in the United States. The percentage of total consolidated net sales for our businesses outside of the United States was 15.6% for 2011, 14.6% for 2010 and
14.3% for 2009. The percentage of total consolidated assets outside of the United States as of December 31, 2011 was 14.5% and as of December 31, 2010 was 14.8%. Operating profit margins vary among individual products and product groups.

Corporate Social Responsibility

Our founder, Milton S. Hershey, established an enduring model of responsible citizenship while creating a successful business. Driving sustainable business practices, making a difference in our
communities, and operating with the highest integrity are vital parts of our heritage. Milton Hershey School, established by Milton and Catherine Hershey, lies at the center of our unique heritage. Mr. Hershey donated and bequeathed almost his
entire fortune to Milton Hershey School, which remains our primary beneficiary and provides a world-class education and nurturing home to nearly 2,000 children in need annually. We continue Milton Hershey’s legacy of commitment to consumers,
community and children by providing high-quality Hershey products while conducting our business in a socially responsible and environmentally sustainable manner.

In 2011, we published our corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) scorecard, which provides an update on the progress we made in 2010 in advancing the priorities we established in our 2009 CSR
report. The scorecard outlines how we performed against the identified performance indicators within our four CSR pillars: environment, community, workplace and marketplace.

Our environmental stewardship programs continue to reduce our impact on the environment. These programs focus on decreasing waste generation at our facilities, improving our packaging sustainability, and
reducing greenhouse gas emissions by lowering energy consumption and improving transportation network efficiency. In 2011, we announced a warehousing, transportation and distribution alliance with the Ferrero Group to improve transportation network
efficiency. Additionally, in 2011 two of our manufacturing facilities attained Zero-Waste-to-Landfill status. We also installed more than 1,200 solar panels in Hershey, Pennsylvania, expected to generate an estimated 318 megawatt-hours of
electricity per year. This project included the installation of the region’s first public electric vehicle charging stations.






We again participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project. The Carbon Disclosure Project,
primarily intended as an investor information tool, is an independent not-for-profit organization holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. Through our participation, we assessed the impact of climate
change on our business as well as our plans to address the impact of climate change on Hershey’s operations around the world.

We continue our leadership role in improving the lives of cocoa farming families through our active engagement and financial support for the World Cocoa Foundation, the International Cocoa Initiative,
Farmer Field Schools, the Sustainable Tree Crops program and other key initiatives, including the launch of an innovative program called CocoaLink—a first-of-its kind approach that uses mobile technology to deliver practical information on
agricultural and social programs to rural cocoa farmers.

Employee safety and wellness are our focuses for our workplaces, and
our top-tier safety performance record continued in 2011. Our employees, at all our locations worldwide, engage in our CSR programs and initiatives through communication, education and CSR events.

Our employees and retirees share their time and resources generously in their communities. Both directly and through the United Way, we
contribute to hundreds of agencies that deliver much needed services and resources. Our focus on “Kids and Kids at Risk” is supported through contributions to the Children’s Miracle Network; Project Fellowship, where employees partner
with student homes at the Milton Hershey School; an orphanage for special needs children in the Philippines; and a children’s burn center in Guadalajara, Mexico, to name a few of the organizations we support.

We also focus on promoting fair and ethical business dealings in the marketplace. We continue to invest in our quality management system
to ensure product quality and food safety remain our top priorities. A condition of doing business with us is compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines our expectations with regard to our suppliers’ commitment to legal
compliance and business integrity, social and working conditions, environment and food safety. In response to the growing concern with nutrition and obesity, Hershey and 15 other food manufacturers and retailers founded The Healthy Weight Commitment
Foundation, a national, multi-year effort designed to help reduce obesity—especially childhood obesity—by 2015. Finally, we continued our “Moderation Nation” program, begun in the fall of 2010. The program is a campaign for
consumers and employees to learn how to balance nutrition and activity while enjoying chocolate in moderation.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We file or furnish
annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may obtain a copy of any of these reports, free of charge, from the “Investors”
section of our website,www.thehersheycompany.comshortly after we file or furnish the information to the SEC.

You may
obtain a copy of any of these reports directly from the SEC’s Public Reference Room. Contact the SEC by calling them at 1-800-SEC-0330 or by submitting a written request to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of Investor Education
and Advocacy, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-0213. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov. You can obtain additional information on how to request public documents from the SEC on their website. The electronic mailbox address of the SEC is publicinfo@sec.gov. The phone number for information about the operation of the
SEC Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is 202-551-8090.

We have a Code of Ethical Business Conduct that applies to our
Board of Directors, all company officers and employees, including, without limitation, our Chief Executive Officer and “senior financial officers” (including the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and persons performing
similar functions). You






can obtain a copy of our Code of Ethical Business Conduct from the Investors section of our website,www.thehersheycompany.com. If we change or waive any portion of the Code of Ethical
Business Conduct that applies to any of our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers, we will post that information on our website within four business days. In the case of a waiver, such information will include the name of the
person to whom the waiver applied, along with the date and type of waiver.

We also post our Corporate Governance Guidelines
and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees in the Investors section of our website,www.thehersheycompany.com.The Board of Directors adopted these Guidelines and charters.

We will provide to any stockholder a copy of one or more of the Exhibits listed in Part IV of this report, upon request. We charge a
small copying fee for these exhibits to cover our costs. To request a copy of any of these documents, you can contact us at The Hershey Company, Attn: Investor Relations Department, 100 Crystal A Drive, Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033-0810.



