Item 1.BUSINESS

The Hershey Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on October 24, 1927 as a successor to a business founded in 1894 by Milton S. Hershey.  In this report, the terms “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” mean The Hershey Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and entities in which it has a controlling financial interest, unless the context indicates otherwise.

We are the largest producer of quality chocolate in North America and a global leader in chocolate and sugar confectionery.  Our principal product groups include chocolate and sugar confectionery products; pantry items, such as baking ingredients, toppings and beverages; and gum and mint refreshment products.

Reportable Segment

We operate as a single reportable segment in manufacturing, marketing, selling and distributing our products under more than 80 brand names.  Our three operating segments comprise geographic regions including the United States, the Americas, and Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“AEMEA”).  We market our products in approximately 70 countries worldwide.

For segment reporting purposes, we aggregate our operations in the United States and in the Americas, which includes Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Central and South America, Puerto Rico and our exports business in this region.  We base this aggregation on similar economic characteristics; products and services; production processes; types or classes of customers; distribution methods; and the similar nature of the regulatory environment in each location.  We aggregate our AEMEA operations with the United States and the Americas to form one reportable segment.  Our AEMEA operations share most of the aggregation criteria and represent less than 10% of our consolidated revenues, operating profits and assets.

Organization

We operate under a matrix reporting structure designed to ensure continued focus on North America and on continuing our transformation into a more global company.  Our business is organized around geographic regions and strategic business units.  It is designed to enable us to build processes for repeatable success in our global markets.

Our geographic regions are accountable for delivering our annual financial plans.  The key regions are:

ŸThe United States;ŸThe Americas, including Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Central and South America, Puerto Rico and exports to this region; andŸAEMEA, including Asia, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and exports to these geographical areas.

In addition, The Hershey Experience manages our retail operations globally, including Hershey’s Chocolate World Stores in Hershey, Pennsylvania, New York City, San Francisco, Chicago, Shanghai, Niagara Falls (Ontario), Dubai, and Singapore.

Our two strategic business units are the chocolate business unit and the sweets and refreshment business unit.  These strategic business units focus on certain components of our product line and are responsible for building and leveraging the Company’s global brands, and disseminating best demonstrated practices around the world.

Business Acquisition

In January 2012, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Brookside Foods Ltd. (“Brookside”), a privately held confectionery company based in Abbottsford, British Columbia, Canada.  As part of this transaction, we acquired two production facilities located in British Columbia and Quebec.  The Brookside product line is primarily sold in the U.S. and Canada in a take home re-sealable pack type.  At the time of the acquisition, annual net sales of the business were approximately $90 million.  The business complements our position in North America and we are making investments in manufacturing capabilities and conducting market research that will enable future growth.










Products

United States

The primary products we sell in the United States include the following:

Under theHERSHEY’Sbrand franchise:HERSHEY’Smilk chocolate barHERSHEY’S BLISSchocolatesHERSHEY’Smilk chocolate with almonds barHERSHEY’S COOKIES ‘N’ CRÈMEcandy barHERSHEY’SExtra Dark pure dark chocolateHERSHEY’S COOKIES ‘N’ CRÈME DROPScandyHERSHEY’S NUGGETSchocolatesHERSHEY’S POT OF GOLDboxed chocolatesHERSHEY’S DROPSchocolatesHERSHEY’Ssugar free chocolate candyHERSHEY’S AIR DELIGHTaeratedmilkchocolateHERSHEY’S HUGScandiesHERSHEY’S MINIATURESchocolate candyHERSHEY'S SIMPLE PLEASUREScandy



Under theREESE’Sbrand franchise:REESE’Speanut butter cupsREESE’Ssugar free peanut butter cupsREESE’Speanut butter cups minisREESE’Scrispy and crunchy barREESE’SPIECEScandyREESE’S WHIPPScandy barREESE’SBIGCUPpeanut butter cupsREESESTICKSwafer barsREESE’SNUTRAGEOUScandy barREESE’S FAST BREAKcandy bar



Under theKISSESbrand franchise:HERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolatesHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolates with almondsHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolates with cherry cordial crèmeHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand chocolate meltaway milk chocolatesHERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolates filled with caramelHERSHEY’S KISSESbrandSPECIAL DARKmildly sweet chocolates










Our other products we sell in the United States include the following:

5thAVENUEcandy barROLOminisALMOND JOYcandy barSKORtoffee barALMOND JOY PIECEScandySPECIAL DARKmildly sweet chocolate barBROOKSIDEchocolate covered real fruit juice piecesSPECIAL DARK PIECEScandyCADBURYchocolatesSYMPHONYmilk chocolate barCARAMELLOcandy barSYMPHONYmilk chocolate bar with almonds and toffeeGOOD & PLENTYcandyTAKE5candy barHEATHtoffee barTHINGAMAJIGcandy barJOLLY RANCHERcandyTWIZZLERScandyJOLLY RANCHER CRUNCH 'N CHEWcandyTWIZZLERSsugar free candyJOLLY RANCHERsugar free candyWHATCHAMACALLITcandy barKIT KATwafer barWHOPPERSmalted milk ballsMAUNA LOAmacadamia snack nutsYORKpeppermint pattieMILK DUDScandyYORKsugar free peppermint pattieMOUNDScandy barYORK PIECEScandyMR. GOODBARchocolate barZAGNUTcandy barPAYDAYpeanut caramel barZEROcandy barROLOcaramels in milk chocolate

We also sell products in the United States under the following product lines:

Premium products

Artisan Confections Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hershey Company, marketsSCHARFFEN BERGERhigh-cacao dark chocolate products, andDAGOBAnatural and organic chocolate products.  OurSCHARFFEN BERGERproducts include chocolate bars, tasting squares and home baking products.DAGOBAproducts include chocolate bars, drinking chocolate and baking products.

Refreshment products

Our line of refreshment products includesICE BREAKERSmints and chewing gum,ICE BREAKERS ICE CUBESchewing gum,BREATH SAVERSmints, andBUBBLE YUMbubble gum.

Pantry items

Pantry items includeHERSHEY’S, REESE’S, HEATH, andSCHARFFEN BERGERbaking products.  Our toppings and sundae syrups includeREESE’S,HEATHandHERSHEY’S.  We sell hot cocoa mix under theHERSHEY’S BLISSbrand name.

Americas

The primary products we sell in the Americas include the following:

Canada

In Canada we sellHERSHEY’Smilk chocolate bars and milk chocolate with almonds bars;OH HENRY!candy bars;REESE PEANUT BUTTER CUPScandy;HERSHEY’S KISSESbrand milk chocolates;TWIZZLERScandy;GLOSETTEchocolate-covered raisins, peanuts and almonds;JOLLY RANCHERcandy;WHOPPERSmalted milk balls;SKORtoffee bars;EAT MOREcandy bars;POT OF GOLDboxed chocolates;BROOKSIDEchocolate-covered fruit, real fruit juice pieces and nuts; andCHIPITSchocolate chips.

Mexico

We manufacture, import, market, sell and distribute chocolate, sweets, refreshment and beverage products in Mexico, under theHERSHEY’S,KISSES,JOLLY RANCHERandPELÓN PELO RICObrands.










Brazil

We manufacture, import and market chocolate, sweets and refreshment products in Brazil, includingHERSHEY’Schocolate and confectionery items andIO-IOitems.

Exports

We also import, market, sell and distribute chocolate, sweets and refreshment products in Central America and Puerto Rico, and export products to other countries in the Americas.

Asia, Europe, Middle East and Africa

We manufacture, market, sell and distribute sugar confectionery, beverage and cooking oil products in India, includingNUTRINEandMAHA LACTOconfectionery products andJUMPINandSOFITbeverage products. We market, sell and distribute chocolate products in China, primarily under theHERSHEY’SandKISSESbrands.  We market, sell and distribute chocolate products in the Middle East, primarily under theHERSHEY’S, REESE’SandKISSESbrands.  We license theVAN HOUTENbrand name and related trademarks to sell chocolate products, cocoa, and baking products in Asia and the Middle East for the retail and duty-free distribution channels.  We also export products to countries in the Asia, Europe, Middle East and Africa regions.

Customers

Full-time sales representatives and food brokers sell our products to our customers.  Our customers are mainly wholesale distributors, chain grocery stores, mass merchandisers, chain drug stores, vending companies, wholesale clubs, convenience stores, dollar stores, concessionaires and department stores.  Our customers then resell our products to end-consumers in retail outlets in North America and other locations worldwide.  In 2012, sales to McLane Company, Inc., one of the largest wholesale distributors in the United States to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, amounted to approximately 22.2% of our total net sales.  McLane Company, Inc. is the primary distributor of our products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

Marketing Strategy and Seasonality

The foundation of our marketing strategy is our strong brand equities, product innovation and the consistently superior quality of our products.  We devote considerable resources to the identification, development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of new products.  We have a variety of promotional programs for our customers as well as advertising and promotional programs for consumers of our products.  We use our promotional programs to stimulate sales of certain products at various times throughout the year.  Our sales are typically higher during the third and fourth quarters of the year, representing seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns.

Product Distribution

In conjunction with our sales and marketing efforts, our efficient product distribution network helps us maintain sales growth and provide superior customer service.  We plan optimum stock levels and work with our customers to set reasonable delivery times.  Our distribution network provides for the efficient shipment of our products from our manufacturing plants to strategically located distribution centers.  We primarily use common carriers to deliver our products from these distribution points to our customers.

Price Changes

We change prices and weights of our products when necessary to accommodate changes in costs, the competitive environment and profit objectives, while at the same time maintaining consumer value.  Price increases and weight changes help to offset increases in our input costs, including raw and packaging materials, fuel, utilities, transportation, and employee benefits.

Usually there is a time lag between the effective date of list price increases and the impact of the price increases on net sales.  The impact of price increases is often delayed because we honor previous commitments to planned consumer and customer promotions and merchandising events subsequent to the effective date of the price increases.  In addition, promotional allowances may be increased subsequent to the effective date, delaying or partially offsetting the impact of price increases on net sales.










In March 2011, we announced a weighted-average increase in wholesale prices of approximately 9.7% across the majority of our U.S., Puerto Rico and export portfolio, effective immediately.  The price increase applied to our instant consumable, multi-pack, packaged candy and grocery lines.  Direct buying customers were able to purchase transitional amounts of product into May, and seasonal net price realization did not occur until Easter 2012.

Raw Materials

Cocoa products are the most significant raw materials we use to produce our chocolate products.  Cocoa products, including cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder processed from cocoa beans, are used to meet manufacturing requirements.  Cocoa products are purchased directly from third-party suppliers.  These third-party suppliers source cocoa beans which are grown principally in Far Eastern, West African and South American equatorial regions to produce the cocoa products which we purchase.  West Africa accounts for approximately 70% of the world’s supply of cocoa beans.

Historically, there have been instances of adverse weather, crop disease, political unrest, and other problems in cocoa-producing countries that have caused price fluctuations, but have never resulted in total loss of a particular producing country’s cocoa crop and/or exports.  In the event that such a disruption would occur in any given country, we believe cocoa from other producing countries and from current physical cocoa stocks in consuming countries would provide a significant supply buffer.

During 2012, the average cocoa futures contract prices decreased compared with 2011, and traded in a range between $1.17 and $1.00 per pound, based on the IntercontinentalExchange futures contract.  After trading at 37-year highs in early 2011, cocoa prices moderated in 2012.  The table below shows annual average cocoa futures prices, and the highest and lowest monthly averages for each of the calendar years indicated.  The prices are the monthly averages of the quotations at noon of the three active futures trading contracts closest to maturity on the IntercontinentalExchange.

Cocoa Futures Contract Prices(dollars per pound)20122011201020092008Annual Average$1.07$1.34$1.36$1.28$1.19High1.171.551.531.521.50Low1.000.991.261.100.86

Source: International Cocoa Organization Quarterly Bulletin of Cocoa Statistics

Our costs will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices, premiums and discounts reflective of varying delivery times, and supply and demand for our specific varieties and grades of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder.  As a result, the average futures contract prices are not necessarily indicative of our average costs.

The Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008, impacts the prices of sugar, corn, peanuts and dairy products because it sets price support levels for these commodities.

During 2012, prices for fluid dairy milk ranged from a low of $0.14 to a high of $0.19 per pound, on a class II fluid milk basis.  Higher feed prices resulting from the historic drought in the U.S. caused dairy prices to rise starting in July, but not to the price levels experienced during 2011.  Our costs for certain dairy products may not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing practices.

The price of sugar is subject to price supports under U.S. farm legislation.  This legislation establishes import quotas and duties to support the price of sugar.  As a result, sugar prices paid by users in the U.S. are currently substantially higher than prices on the world sugar market.  In early 2012, sugar supplies in the U.S. were negatively impacted by government import restrictions; however, ideal weather in the North American sugar-growing regions caused prices to trade lower in the Fall of 2012.  As a result, refined sugar prices decreased in 2012 compared with 2011, trading lower in a range from $0.54 to $0.37 per pound.  Our costs for sugar will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations primarily because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices.

Peanut prices in the U.S. began the year around $1.25 per pound and decreased during the year to $0.52 per pound.  Price decreases were driven by a record crop of 3.4 million tons, up 85% from 2011.  Almond prices began the year at $2.20 per pound and increased to $2.90 per pound during the year driven by a decrease in almond production of










approximately 8% versus 2011.  Our costs for peanuts and almonds will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing practices.

We attempt to minimize the effect of future price fluctuations related to the purchase of major raw materials and certain energy requirements primarily through forward purchasing to cover our future requirements, generally for periods from 3 to 24 months.  We enter into futures contracts and other commodity derivative instruments to manage price risks for cocoa products, sugar, corn sweeteners, natural gas, certain dairy products and transportation costs.  However, the dairy futures markets are not as developed as many of the other commodities futures markets and, therefore, generally it is difficult to hedge our costs for dairy products by entering into futures contracts and other derivative instruments to extend coverage for long periods of time.  Currently, active futures contracts are not available for use in pricing our other major raw material requirements, primarily peanuts and almonds.  For more information on price risks associated with our major raw material requirements, see Commodities-Price Risk Management and Futures Contracts on page 38.

Product Sourcing

We manufacture or contract to our specifications for the manufacture of the products we sell.  In addition, we contract with third-party suppliers to source certain ingredients.  We enter into manufacturing contracts with third parties to improve our strategic competitive position and achieve cost effective production and sourcing of our products.

Competition

Many of our brands enjoy wide consumer acceptance and are among the leading brands sold in the marketplace in North America.  We sell our brands in highly competitive markets with many other global multinational, national, regional and local firms.  Some of our competitors are much larger firms that have greater resources and more substantial international operations.

Trademarks, Service Marks and License Agreements

We own various registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks, and have rights under licenses to use various trademarks that are of material importance to our business.  We also grant trademark licenses to third parties to produce and sell pantry items, flavored milks and various other products primarily under theHERSHEY’SandREESE’Sbrand names.

We have license agreements with several companies to manufacture and/or sell and distribute certain products.  Our rights under these agreements are extendible on a long-term basis at our option.  Our most significant licensing agreements are as follows:

CompanyBrandLocationRequirementsCadbury Ireland LimitedYORKPETER PAUL ALMONDJOYPETER PAUL MOUNDSWorldwideNoneCadbury UK LimitedCADBURYCARAMELLOUnited StatesMinimum sales requirement exceeded in 2012Société desProduits Nestlé SAKIT KATROLOUnited StatesMinimum unit volume sales exceeded in 2012Huhtamäki Oy affiliateGOOD & PLENTYHEATHJOLLY RANCHERMILK DUDSPAYDAYWHOPPERSWorldwideNone










Backlog of Orders

We manufacture primarily for stock and fill customer orders from finished goods inventories.  While at any given time there may be some backlog of orders, this backlog is not material in respect to our total annual sales, nor are the changes, from time to time, significant.

Research and Development

We engage in a variety of research and development activities in a number of countries, including the United States, Mexico, Brazil, India and China.  We develop new products, improve the quality of existing products, improve and modernize production processes, and develop and implement new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines.  Information concerning our research and development expense is contained in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements,Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.

Food Quality and Safety Regulation

The manufacture and sale of consumer food products is highly regulated.  In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Commerce and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies.  Similar agencies also regulate our businesses outside of the United States.

Our Product Excellence Program provides us with an effective product quality and safety program.  This program assures that all products we purchase, manufacture and distribute are safe, are of high quality and comply with all applicable laws and regulations.

Through our Product Excellence Program, we evaluate the supply chain including ingredients, packaging, processes, products, distribution and the environment to determine where product quality and safety controls are necessary.  We identify risks and establish controls to assure product quality and safety.  Various government agencies, third-party firms and our quality assurance staff conduct audits of all facilities that manufacture our products to assure effectiveness and compliance with our program and all applicable laws and regulations.

Environmental Considerations

We made routine operating and capital expenditures during 2012 to comply with environmental laws and regulations. These expenditures were not material with respect to our results of operations, capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 12,100 full-time and 2,100 part-time employees worldwide. Collective bargaining agreements covered approximately 4,800 employees.  During 2013, agreements will be negotiated for certain employees at four facilities outside of the United States, comprising approximately 58% of total employees under collective bargaining agreements.  We believe that our employee relations are good.

Financial Information by Geographic Area

Our principal operations and markets are located in the United States.  The percentage of total consolidated net sales for our businesses outside of the United States was 16.1% for 2012, 15.6% for 2011 and 14.6% for 2010.  The percentage of total consolidated assets outside of the United States as of December 31, 2012 was 20.5% and as of December 31, 2011 was 14.5%.

Corporate Social Responsibility

Our founder, Milton S. Hershey, established an enduring model of responsible citizenship while creating a successful business.  Driving sustainable business practices, making a difference in our communities, and operating with the highest integrity are vital parts of our heritage.  Milton Hershey School, established by Milton and Catherine Hershey, lies at the center of our unique heritage.  Mr. Hershey donated and bequeathed almost his entire fortune to Milton Hershey School, which remains our primary beneficiary and provides a world-class education and nurturing home to nearly 2,000 children in need annually.  We continue Milton Hershey's legacy of commitment to consumers, community and children by providing high-quality Hershey products while conducting our business in a socially responsible and environmentally










sustainable manner.

In 2012, we published our second corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) report, which provided an update on the progress we've made in advancing the priorities that were established in our first CSR report.  The report outlines how we performed against the identified performance indicators within our four CSR pillars: environment, community, workplace and marketplace.

The safety and health of our employees, and the safety and quality of our products are consistently at the core of our operations and are areas of ongoing focus for Hershey in the workplace.  Our over-arching safety goal is to consistently achieve best in class safety performance, and Hershey has achieved continuous improvement in employee safety in the workplace since 2007.  We continue to invest in our quality management systems to ensure product quality and food safety remain top priorities.  We carefully monitor and rigorously enforce our high standards of excellence for superior quality, consistency and taste, and absolute food safety.

For the first time, in 2012, Hershey was recognized for its environmental, social and governance performance by being named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (“DJSI”) - North America.  The DJSI evaluates and selects the top 20% of companies, as determined by their financial and sustainability efforts, and Hershey was one of only seven companies in the Food and Beverage super-sector that were recognized in the DJSI.

Hershey has committed to minimizing the environmental impacts of our operations.  Our environmental stewardship programs produced meaningful gains in 2011.  Over our 2008 baseline, Hershey decreased waste generation by 23%, water usage by 12%, and green house gas emissions by 15%, while improving our company-wide recycling rate to 80%.  Additionally, in 2012, we improved our Carbon Disclosure Score by 20%, and we moved up 172 spots in the Newsweek Green Rankings.  Hershey now has three manufacturing facilities that have attained Zero-Waste-to-Landfill status with several others working to achieve this goal.  We have installed more than 1,200 solar panels in Hershey, Pennsylvania, expected to generate an estimated 318 megawatt-hours of electricity per year.  This project also included the installation of the region's first public electric vehicle charging stations, and we are piloting several 100% electric vehicles in our corporate fleet.

In the marketplace, Hershey focuses on promoting fair and ethical business dealings. A condition of doing business with us is compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines our expectations with regard to our suppliers' commitment to legal compliance and business integrity, social and working conditions, environment and food safety.  We continue our leadership role in improving the lives of cocoa farming families through a variety of initiatives.  In October 2012, we announced that it is our goal to source 100% certified cocoa for our global chocolate product lines by 2020, assuming adequate supply.  Also, earlier in the year we pledged $10 million over 5 years to directly benefit 750,000 farmers through programs such as Hershey's Learn to Grow Farm and Family Center in Ghana.  Our active engagement and financial support also continues for the World Cocoa Foundation, the International Cocoa Initiative, and CocoaLink, a first-of-its kind approach that uses mobile technology to deliver practical information on agricultural and social programs to rural cocoa farmers.

Our employees share their time and resources generously in their communities.  Both directly and through the United Way, we contribute to hundreds of agencies that deliver much needed services and resources.  In 2011, Hershey donated more than $9 million in cash and product to worthy causes, our employees volunteered more than 10,000 hours in their communities and we believe our results in 2012 have been even better.  Our focus on “Kids and Kids at Risk” is supported through contributions to the Children's Miracle Network; Project Fellowship, where employees partner with student homes at the Milton Hershey School; an orphanage for special needs children in the Philippines; and a children's burn center in Guadalajara, Mexico, to name a few.  In 2012, Hershey was recognized by The National Conference on Citizenship and Points of Light, the nation's definitive experts on civic engagement, in partnership with Bloomberg LP, as one of the 50 most community minded companies in America.

Our commitment to CSR is yielding powerful results.  As we move into new markets and expand our leadership in North America, we are convinced that our values and heritage will be fundamental to our continuing success.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  You may obtain a copy of any of these reports, free of charge, from the Investors section of our website,www.thehersheycompany.com,shortly after we file or furnish the information to the SEC.










You may obtain a copy of any of these reports directly from the SEC’s Public Reference Room.  Contact the SEC by calling them at 1-800-SEC-0330 or by submitting a written request to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov.  You can obtain additional information on how to request public documents from the SEC on their website.  The electronic mailbox address of the SEC is publicinfo@sec.gov.

We have a Code of Ethical Business Conduct that applies to our Board of Directors, all company officers and employees, including, without limitation, our Chief Executive Officer and “senior financial officers” (including the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and persons performing similar functions).  You can obtain a copy of our Code of Ethical Business Conduct from the Investors section of our website,www.thehersheycompany.com.  If we change or waive any portion of the Code of Ethical Business Conduct that applies to any of our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers, we will post that information on our website within four business days.  In the case of a waiver, such information will include the name of the person to whom the waiver applied, along with the date and type of waiver.

We also post our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees in the Investors section of our website,www.thehersheycompany.com.The Board of Directors adopted these Guidelines and charters.

We will provide to any stockholder a copy of one or more of the Exhibits listed in Part IV of this report, upon request. We charge a small copying fee for these exhibits to cover our costs.  To request a copy of any of these documents, you can contact us at The Hershey Company, Attn: Investor Relations Department, 100 Crystal A Drive, Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033-0810.

