ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential,
business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, network access, private line (including special access), public access,
broadband, data, managed hosting (including cloud hosting), colocation, wireless and video services. In certain local and regional markets, we also provide local access and fiber transport services to
competitive local exchange carriers and security monitoring. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a
complete offering of integrated communications services.

Based
on total access lines at December 31, 2011, we were the third largest telecommunications company in the United States. We operate almost 75% of our total access lines in
portions of Colorado, Washington, Arizona, Minnesota, Florida, North Carolina, Oregon, Iowa, Utah, New Mexico, Missouri and Nevada. We also provide local service in portions of Idaho, Ohio, Wisconsin,
Virginia, Texas, Pennsylvania, Montana, Alabama, Nebraska, Indiana, Arkansas, Tennessee, Wyoming, New Jersey, North Dakota, South Dakota, Kansas, Michigan, Louisiana, South Carolina, Illinois,
Georgia, Mississippi, Oklahoma and California. In the portion of these 37 states where we have access lines, which we refer to as our local service area, we are the incumbent local telephone company.
We also operate 68 data centers throughout North America, South America, Europe and Asia.

We
were incorporated under the laws of the State of Louisiana in 1968. Our principal executive offices are located at 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203 and our telephone
number is (318) 388-9000.

For
a discussion of certain risks applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report. The summary financial
information in this section should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 and "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report.

Acquisitions

Acquisition of Savvis

On July 15, 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Savvis, a provider of cloud hosting, managed hosting,
colocation and network services in domestic and international markets. We believe this acquisition enhances our ability to be an information technology partner with our existing business customers and
strengthens our opportunities to attract new business customers in the future. Each share of Savvis common stock outstanding immediately prior to the acquisition converted into the right to receive
$30 per share in cash and 0.2479 shares of CenturyLink common stock. The aggregate consideration of $2.382 billion consisted of:

•cash payments of $1.732 billion;









•the 14.313 million shares of CenturyLink common stock issued to consummate the acquisition,•the closing stock price of CenturyLink common stock at July 14, 2011 of $38.54; and•the estimated net value of the pre-combination portion of certain share-based compensation awards assumed by
CenturyLink of $98 million, of which $33 million was paid in cash.

Upon
completing the acquisition, we also paid $547 million to retire certain pre-existing Savvis debt and accrued interest, and paid related transaction expenses
totaling $15 million. The cash payments required on or about the closing date were funded using existing cash balances, which included the net proceeds from the June 2011 issuance of senior
notes with an aggregate principal amount of $2 billion.

Acquisition of Qwest

On April 1, 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Qwest Communications International Inc. ("Qwest"), a
provider of data, Internet, video and voice services nationwide and globally. As of the acquisition date, Qwest served approximately 9.0 million access lines and approximately
3.0 million broadband subscribers across 14 states. Each share of Qwest common stock outstanding immediately prior to the acquisition converted into the right to receive 0.1664 shares of
CenturyLink common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. The aggregate consideration was $12.273 billion based on:

•the 294 million shares of CenturyLink common stock issued to consummate the acquisition;•the closing stock price of CenturyLink common stock at March 31, 2011 of $41.55;•the estimated net value of the pre-combination portion of share-based compensation awards assumed by
CenturyLink of $52 million (excluding the value of restricted stock included in the number of issued shares specified above); and•cash paid in lieu of the issuance of fractional shares of $5 million.

We
assumed approximately $12.7 billion of long-term debt in connection with our acquisition of Qwest.

Acquisition of Embarq

On July 1, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Embarq Corporation ("Embarq"), a provider of data, Internet,
video and voice services. As of the acquisition date, Embarq served approximately 5.4 million access lines and approximately 1.5 million broadband subscribers across 18 states. Each
share of Embarq common stock outstanding immediately prior to the acquisition converted into the right to receive 1.37 shares of CenturyLink common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares.
The aggregate consideration of $6.070 billion was based on:

•the 196 million shares of CenturyLink common stock issued to consummate the acquisition;•the closing stock price of CenturyLink common stock at June 30, 2009 of $30.70; and•the estimated net value of the pre-combination portion of share-based compensation awards assumed by
CenturyLink of $50 million (excluding the value of restricted stock included in the number of issued shares specified above).

We
assumed approximately $4.9 billion of long-term debt in connection with our acquisition of Embarq.









In
connection with the Embarq acquisition, we amended our charter to eliminate our time-phase voting structure, which previously entitled persons who beneficially owned
shares of our common stock continuously since May 30, 1987 to ten votes per share.

Effect of Recent Acquisitions

Our acquisitions since 2009 resulted in several important changes to our operations,
including:

•providing services to an expanded number of densely-populated markets, which tend to afford consumers access to a greater
range of competitive communications products than less dense markets;•reducing the percentage of our total revenue derived from governmental support programs, which typically focus on
disbursing payments to companies operating in less densely-populated areas;•expanding and reconfiguring our operating regions to incorporate the Embarq and Qwest service areas in order to provide
day-to-day decision making at the regional level as opposed to the more centralized structures formerly used by Embarq and Qwest; and•offering certain services, such as cloud computing, that CenturyLink did not historically provide.

Other Acquisitions

On April 30, 2007, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Madison River Communications Corp. ("Madison River") for
approximately $322 million in cash. In connection with the acquisition, we also paid approximately $522 million to retire all pre-existing Madison River debt and accrued
interest. At the time of this acquisition, Madison River operated approximately 164,000 predominantly rural access lines in four states.

In
June 2005, we acquired fiber assets in 16 metropolitan markets from KMC Telecom Holdings, Inc. for approximately $76 million in cash, which has enabled us to offer
broadband and competitive local exchange services to customers in these markets. During 2008, we sold the assets in six of these markets in two separate transactions.

We
regularly evaluate the possibility of acquiring additional assets in exchange for cash, securities or other properties, and at any given time may be engaged in discussions or
negotiations regarding additional acquisitions. We generally do not announce our acquisitions or dispositions until we have entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement.

References to Acquired Businesses

In the discussion that follows, we refer to the business that we operated prior to the Qwest acquisition (including Embarq's business)
as "Legacy CenturyLink" and refer to the incremental business activities that we now operate as a result of the Savvis acquisition and the Qwest acquisition as "Legacy Savvis" and "Legacy Qwest",
respectively.









Financial and Operational Highlights

The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations. Our operating results include operations of Savvis for
periods after July 15, 2011, Qwest for periods after April 1, 2011 and Embarq for periods after July 1, 2009.

Years Ended December 31,201120102009(Dollars in millions)Operating revenues$15,3517,0424,974Operating expenses13,3264,9823,741Operating income$2,0252,0601,233Net income$573948647



December 31,20112010(Dollars in millions)Balance sheet data:Total assets$56,13922,038Total long-term debt(1)21,8367,328Total stockholders' equity20,8279,647

(1)Total
long-term debt is the sum of current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt on our consolidated balance
sheets. For total obligations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Future Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 of this report.

The following table presents some of our operational metrics:

December 31,201120102009(in thousands)Operational metrics:Total broadband subscribers5,5542,3492,186Total access lines(1)14,5846,4897,025

(1)Access
lines are telephone lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public switched telephone network, or PSTN.

Substantially all of our revenues are from customers located in the United States, and substantially all of our long-lived assets are
located in the United States.

Operations

Segments

For several years prior to 2011, we reported our operations as a single segment. However, after our acquisitions of Qwest on
April 1, 2011 and Savvis on July 15, 2011, we have reorganized our business into the following operating segments:

•Regional markets.Consists generally of providing
strategic and legacy products and services to residential consumers, small to medium-sized businesses and regional enterprise customers. Our









strategic
products and services offered to these customers include our private line, broadband, Multi-Protocol Label Switching ("MPLS"), hosting, video and wireless services. Our legacy services
offered to these customers include local and long-distance service;

•Business markets.Consists generally of providing
strategic and legacy products and services to enterprise and government customers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our private line, broadband, MPLS, hosting and
video services. Our legacy services offered to these customers include local and long-distance service;•Wholesale markets.Consists generally of providing
strategic and legacy products and services to other communications providers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers are mainly private line (including special access) and
MPLS. Our legacy services offered to these customers include unbundled network elements ("UNEs") which allow our wholesale customers the use of our network or a combination of our network and their
own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers, long-distance and switched access services; and•Savvis operations.Consists generally of the entire
centrally-managed operations of our Savvis subsidiaries, which provides hosting and network services primarily to business customers. Some of these services are the same as those provided through our
business markets segment. In the future, we may reclassify the revenues and expenses associated with those business markets services as part of our Savvis operations segment. However, until we are
able to further integrate Legacy Savvis, we will continue to classify those services as part of the business markets segment.

The
following table shows the composition of our revenues by segment. Due to system limitations, we have determined that it is impracticable to restate 2009's reportable segments, as for
several years prior to 2011 we reported our operations as a single segment. For additional information on our segment data, see Item 8 "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" of this
report.

Years Ended December 31,20112010Change(Dollars in millions)Percentage of revenue:Regional markets51%66%(15%)Business markets19%4%15%Wholesale markets21%22%(1%)Savvis operations3%—3%Other operating revenues6%8%(2%)Total100%100%

Although we now report financial information separately for each of our segments, our segment information does not include total assets and
capital expenditures, which we manage on a centralized basis and are only reviewed by our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") on a consolidated basis. As we continue to integrate our recent
acquisitions, we may make further changes to our segment reporting. Our segment results are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that our segments would have achieved had they
operated as stand-alone entities during the periods presented.

Products and Services

Our products and services include a variety of voice, broadband, data, information technology ("IT"), video and other communications
services. In 2011, we expanded our IT services to include cloud hosting, managed hosting, colocation and network services. Through our strategic partnership









with
DIRECTV, we offer satellite digital television to customers in our local service area. We also offer wireless services to customers through our strategic partnership with Verizon Wireless.

We
offer our customers the ability to bundle together several products and services. For example, we offer integrated and unlimited local and long-distance services. Our
customers can also bundle two or more services such as broadband, video (including DIRECTV), voice and Verizon Wireless services. We believe our customers value the convenience of and price discounts
associated with receiving multiple services through a single company.

Most
of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper cables, fiber-optic cables and other equipment. Our
network serves approximately 14.6 million access lines and forms a portion of the public switched telephone network, or PSTN.

Described
below are our key products and services.

Strategic Services

Our customers use our strategic services to access the Internet, connect to private networks and transmit data. We also provide
value-added services and integrated solutions that make communications more secure, reliable and efficient for our customers. We focus our marketing and sales efforts on these
services:

•

Private line.Private line is a direct circuit or channel
specifically dedicated for the purpose of directly connecting two or more sites. Private line offers a high-speed, secure solution for frequent transmission of large amounts of data
between sites. We also provide private line services to wireless service providers that use our fiber to the tower services, commonly referred to as wireless backhaul, to support their next generation
wireless networks.

•

Broadband.Our broadband services allow customers to
connect to the Internet through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables at high speeds. Substantially all of our broadband subscribers are located within our local service area.

•

MPLS.Multi-Protocol Label Switching is standards-approved
data networking technology, compatible with existing asynchronous transfer mode, or ATM, and frame relay networks we provide to support real-time voice and video. This technology allows
network operators flexibility to divert and route traffic around link failures, congestion and bottlenecks.

•

Hosting.Hosting includes providing space, power,
bandwidth and managed services in our data centers. We also offer a variety of server and application management services, including cloud, back-up, disaster recovery and professional web
design.

•

Video.Our video services include our facilities-based
video, marketed as CenturyLink™ Prism™, which is an advanced entertainment service option that allows our customers to watch hundreds of channels and record up to four shows on
one home digital video recorder. We also offer satellite digital television under an arrangement with DIRECTV that allows us to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name.

•

VoIP.Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, is a
real-time, two-way voice communication service (similar to our traditional voice services) that originates over a broadband connection and often terminates on the PSTN.

•

Wireless services.Our wireless services are offered under
an agency arrangement with Verizon Wireless that allows us to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name, primarily to customers who buy these services as part of a bundle with one or
more of our other products and services. This arrangement allows us to sell the full complement of Verizon Wireless









services.
Our current arrangement with Verizon Wireless has a five-year term ending in 2015 and is terminable by either party thereafter.Legacy Services

Our legacy services represent our traditional phone services, which include the following:

•

Local.We offer local calling services for our regional
and business markets customers within our local service area, generally for a fixed monthly charge. These services include a number of enhanced calling features and other services, such as call
forwarding, caller identification, conference calling, voicemail, selective call ringing, call waiting and maintenance services, for which we generally charge an additional monthly fee. We also
generate revenues from non-recurring services, such as inside wire installation, service activation and reactivation.For
our wholesale customers, local calling services include primarily resale and UNEs, which allow our wholesale customers to use our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to
provide voice and data services to their customers. It also includes network transport, billing services and access to our network by other telecommunications providers and wireless carriers. Local
calling services provided to our wholesale customers allow other telecommunications companies the ability to originate or terminate telecommunications services on our network;

•

Long-distance.We offer our residential and
business customers domestic and international long-distance services and toll free services. Our international long-distance services include voice calls that either terminate
or originate with our customers in the United States; and

•

Switched access services.We sell various forms of
switched access services to wireline and wireless service providers for the use of our facilities to originate and terminate their interstate and intrastate voice transmissions.

Data Integration

Data integration involves the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related professional services.
These services include network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and other business customers.

Other Revenues

We also generate other operating revenues from Universal Service Fund ("USF") revenues and surcharges and the leasing and subleasing of
space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. We centrally manage this revenue, and consequently it is not assigned to any of our three categories described above. The majority of
our real estate properties are located in our local service area.

Additional Information

During 2008, we paid an aggregate of approximately $149 million for 69 licenses in the FCC's auction of 700 megahertz wireless
spectrum. We are continuing to evaluate our options associated with owning this spectrum.

From
time to time, we also make investments in other communications companies.

For
further information on regulatory, technological and competitive changes that could impact our revenues, see "Regulation" and "Competition" under this Item 1 below and "Risk
Factors" under









Item 1A
below. For more information on the financial contributions of our various services, see Item 7 of this annual report.

Importance, Duration and Effect of Patents, Trademarks and Copyrights

Either directly or through our subsidiaries, we own several patents, tradenames, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property
necessary to conduct our business,
such as our CenturyLink™ and Prism™ brand names. Our services often use the intellectual property of others, including licensed software. We also occasionally license our
intellectual property to others.

Sales and Marketing

We maintain local offices in most of the larger population centers within our local service area. These offices provide sales and
customer support services in the community. We also rely on our call center personnel to promote sales of services that meet the needs of our customers. Our strategy is to enhance our communications
services by offering a comprehensive bundle of services and deploying new technologies to build upon our reputation and to further enhance customer loyalty.

We
conduct most of our operations under the brand name "CenturyLink." Our satellite television service is offered on a co-branded basis under the "DIRECTV" name. Our switched
digital television service offering is branded under the name "Prism™." The wireless service that we offer under our agency agreement with Verizon Wireless is marketed under the "Verizon
Wireless" brand name. Currently, all IT and other services furnished through our Savvis operations are marketed under the "Savvis" brand name.

Our
approach to our residential customers emphasizes customer-oriented sales, marketing and service with a local presence. We market our products and services primarily through direct
sales representatives, inbound call centers, local retail stores, telemarketing and third parties. We support our distribution with direct mail, bill inserts, newspaper advertising, website
promotions, public relations activities and sponsorship of community events.

Our
approach to our business customers includes a commitment to deliver communications solutions that meet existing and future business needs through bundles of services and integrated
service offerings. Our focus is to be a comprehensive customer communications solution for small businesses to large enterprises.

Our
approach to our wholesale customers includes a commitment to deliver communications solutions that meet existing and future national telecommunications providers' needs through
bandwidth growth and quality of services.

Our
Savvis operations utilize a solution-based selling approach. By working directly with potential and existing clients, we are able to understand our clients' IT infrastructure and
long-term
goals. We also market through indirect channels, including collaborations with existing clients and technology providers, telecommunications companies and system integrators.

Network Architecture

Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper
cables, fiber-optic cables and other equipment. Our local exchange carrier networks also include central offices and remote sites, all with advanced digital switches and operating with licensed
software. Our fiber-optic cable is the primary transport technology between our central offices and interconnection points with other incumbent carriers. We also maintain separate networks in
connection with providing fiber transport services.









We
continue to enhance and expand our network as broadband enabled technologies are being deployed to provide significant capacity to our customers. Rapid and significant changes in
technology are expected to continue in the telecommunications industry. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes.

Regulation

We are subject to significant regulation by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"), which regulates interstate communications,
and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications in our local service area. These agencies issue rules to protect consumers and promote competition; they set the rates that
telecommunication companies charge each other for exchanging traffic; and they have established funds (called universal service funds or USF) to support the provision of services to
high-cost areas. In most states, local voice service, switched and special access services and interconnection services are subject to price regulation, although the extent of regulation
varies by type of service and geographic region. In addition, we are required to maintain licenses with the FCC and with the utility commissions of most of the states in our local service area. Laws
and regulations in many states restrict the manner in which a licensed entity can interact with affiliates, transfer assets, issue debt and engage in other business activities and many mergers and
acquisitions require approval by the FCC and some state commissions.

Historically,
incumbent local exchange carriers, or ILECs, operated as regulated monopolies having the exclusive right and responsibility to provide local telephone services in their
franchised service territories. As we discuss in greater detail below, passage of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, coupled with state legislative and regulatory initiatives and technological
change, fundamentally altered the telephone industry by generally reducing the regulation of ILECs and creating a substantial increase in the number of competitors. We are considered an ILEC. The
following description discusses some of the major industry regulations that affect our traditional telephone operations, but numerous other regulations not discussed below could also impact us. Some
legislation and regulations are currently the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proceedings which could substantially change the manner in which the
telecommunications industry operates and the amount of revenues we receive for our services. Neither the outcome of these proceedings, nor their potential impact on us, can be predicted at this time.
The impact of regulatory changes in the telecommunications industry could have a substantial impact on our operations. For further information, see Item 1A of this annual report below.

State Regulation

In recent years, most states have substantially reduced their regulation of ILECs. Nonetheless, state regulatory commissions generally
continue to regulate local service rates, intrastate access charges, and in some cases service quality, as they continue to grant and revoke certifications authorizing companies to provide
communications services. State commissions traditionally regulated pricing through "rate of return" regulation that focused on authorized levels of earnings by ILECs. Several states continue to
regulate us in this manner. In most of our states, we are generally regulated under various forms of alternative regulation that typically limit our ability to increase rates for basic local voice
service, but relieve us from the requirement to meet certain earnings tests. In a few states, we have recently gained pricing freedom for the majority of retail services except for the most basic of
services, such as stand-alone basic residential voice service. In most of the states in which we operate, we have gained pricing flexibility for certain enhanced calling services, such as caller
identification and for bundled services that also include local voice service. State commissions periodically conduct proceedings to review the rates that we charge other telecommunications providers
for using our network or for reselling our service pursuant to the Telecommunications Act of 1996, and those proceedings can result in revenue reductions.









We
are currently responding to carrier complaints, legislation or generic investigations regarding our intrastate switched access charge rates in several of our states. In particular,
certain long-distance providers have disputed existing intercarrier compensation rates payable to us and other ILECs with respect to VoIP traffic or refused to pay access charges, based on
the contention that tariffed switched access charges should not apply to VoIP traffic. On October 27, 2011,
the FCC adopted an order comprehensively reforming federal intercarrier compensation and universal service policies and rules, as discussed further below under the heading "Federal Regulation." Among
other things, this order preempted state regulatory commissions' jurisdiction over all terminating access charges, however, intrastate access charges have historically been subject to exclusive state
jurisdiction. Furthermore, the FCC decreed that on a prospective basis, intercarrier compensation rates for VoIP traffic are established at interstate access rates in the event intrastate switched
access rates exceed interstate rates.

The
FCC order requires all terminating access rates including intrastate, interstate and reciprocal compensation rates to be reduced and unified over time. Excluding the rate
implications contemplated on a prospective basis by the recent FCC order, we will continue to vigorously defend and seek to collect our intrastate switched access revenue subject to outstanding
disputes. These historical disputes are primarily over access charge compensation for VoIP traffic terminating on the public switched telephone network. The outcomes of these disputes cannot be
determined at this time. If we are required to reduce our intrastate switched access rates as a result of any of these disputes or state initiatives, we will seek to recover displaced switched access
revenues from state universal service funds or other services. However, the amount of such recovery, particularly from residential customers, is not assured.

Under
state law, our telephone operating subsidiaries are typically governed by laws and regulations that (i) regulate the purchase and sale of ILECs, (ii) prescribe
certain reporting requirements, (iii) require ILECs to provide service under publicly-filed tariffs setting forth the terms, conditions and prices of regulated services, (iv) limit
ILECs' ability to borrow and establish asset liens (v) regulate transactions between ILECs and their affiliates, and (vi) impose various other service standards.

As
an ILEC, we generally face "carrier of last resort" obligations which include an ongoing requirement to provide service to all prospective and current customers in our service area
who request service and are willing to pay rates prescribed in our tariffs. In competitively-bid situations, such as newly-constructed housing developments or multi-tenant dwellings, this
may constitute a competitive disadvantage to us if competitors can choose to focus on low-risk profitable customers and withhold service from high-risk unprofitable customers.
Strict adherence to carrier of last resort requirements may force us to construct facilities with a low likelihood of positive economic return. In certain cases, we seek to mitigate these risks by
receiving regulatory approval to use less costly alternative technologies, such as fixed wireless, or by sharing network construction costs with our customers. In addition, a few of our states provide
relief from these obligations under certain specific circumstances, and in certain areas our costs to build and maintain network infrastructure are partially offset by payments from universal service
programs.

We
operate in states where traditional cost recovery mechanisms, including rate structures, are under evaluation or have been modified. There can be no assurance that these states will
continue to provide for cost recovery at current levels.

Federal Regulation

We are required to comply with the Communications Act of 1934, which requires us to offer services at just and reasonable rates and on
non-discriminatory terms, as well as the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which amended the Communications Act of 1934 primarily to promote competition.









The
FCC regulates interstate services provided by us, including the special access charges we bill for wholesale network transmission and the interstate access charges that we bill to
long-distance companies and other communications companies in connection with the origination and termination of interstate voice and data transmissions. Additionally, the FCC regulates a
number of aspects of our business related to privacy, homeland security and network infrastructure, including access to and use of local telephone numbers. The FCC has responsibility for maintaining
and administering the federal USF, which provides substantial support for maintaining networks in high-cost areas, as well as supporting service to low-income households,
schools and libraries, and rural health care providers. Like other communications network operators, ILECs must obtain FCC approval to use certain radio frequencies, or to transfer control of any such
licenses. The FCC retains the right to revoke these licenses if a carrier materially violates relevant legal requirements.

We,
like other large and mid-sized ILECs, operate under price-cap regulation of interstate access rates. Under price-cap regulation, limits imposed on
a company's interstate rates are adjusted periodically to reflect inflation, productivity improvement and changes in certain non-controllable costs.

Our
operations and those of all telecommunications carriers also may be impacted by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations on us. The most likely areas of impact
include regulations or laws related to providing broadband service, bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery requirements, minimizing environmental impacts, enhancing privacy, or
addressing other issues that impact our business, including the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, and laws governing local telephone number portability and customer proprietary
network information requirements. These laws and regulations may cause us to incur additional costs and could impact our ability to compete effectively.

From
time-to-time, the FCC reviews the rates and terms under which ILECs provide special access services. If the FCC were to adopt significant changes in
regulations affecting special access services, this could adversely impact our operations or financial results.

Universal Service Fund and Other Related Matters

For decades, the FCC has regularly considered various intercarrier compensation reforms, generally with a goal to create a uniform
mechanism to be used by the entire telecommunications industry for payments between carriers originating, terminating, or carrying telecommunications traffic. In connection therewith, the FCC has
received intercarrier compensation proposals from several industry groups, and solicited public comments on a variety of topics related to access charges and intercarrier compensation. In early 2011,
the FCC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking focused on modernizing its universal service policies and intercarrier compensation rules.

On
October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order") intended to reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize
ongoing shifts to new technologies, including VoIP, and gradually re-direct universal service funding to foster nationwide broadband coverage. This initial ruling provides for a
multi-year transition over the next decade as intercarrier compensation charges are reduced, universal service funding is explicitly targeted to broadband deployment, and subscriber line
charges paid by end user customers are gradually increased. These changes will substantially increase the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues we receive in our wholesale
segment, while creating opportunities for increases in federal USF and retail revenue streams. The ultimate effect of this order on communications companies is largely dependent on future FCC
proceedings designed to implement the order, the most significant of which are scheduled to be determined in 2012 and 2013.









On December 29, 2011, the CAF order went into effect. At the same time, numerous parties filed a Petition For Reconsideration ("PFR") with the FCC seeking
numerous revisions to the order. In January 2012, we joined more than two dozen parties in appealing certain aspects of the order by filing a PFR that will be heard by the United States Tenth Circuit
Court of Appeals. Future judicial challenges to the CAF order are possible, which could alter or delay the FCC's proposed changes. In addition, based on the outcome of the FCC proceedings, various
state commissions may consider changes to their universal service funds or intrastate access rates. For these reasons, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings on us at this time.

The
following table reflects the minute-driven components of our intercarrier compensation revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011:

Originating TrafficTerminating TrafficMinutesYieldMinutesYield(in thousands)(in thousands)Revenues:Interstate switched access11,397,310$0.004112,960,384$0.0057Intrastate switched access2,054,012$0.02505,911,023$0.0297Local interconnection14,911,205$0.0070

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "Recovery Act") includes certain broadband initiatives that are intended to accelerate
broadband deployment across the United States. The Recovery Act approved $7.2 billion in funding for broadband stimulus projects across the United States to be administered by two governmental
agencies. The programs provide grants and loans to applicants for construction of certain broadband infrastructure, provision of certain broadband services, and support of certain broadband adoption
initiatives. This program has attracted a wide range of
applicants including states, municipalities, start-up companies and consortiums. The participation of other parties in these programs could increase competition in selected areas, which
may increase our marketing costs and decrease our revenues in those areas. We cannot at this time estimate the impact these programs may have on our operations.

On
January 31, 2012 the FCC adopted an order modernizing the program that provides assistance to qualifying low-income individuals for local voice service. These
changes also affect state-specific programs that provide assistance to qualifying individuals. The impact of these changes cannot be quantified at this time, but we may face increased administrative
costs and audit requirements as a result of this FCC order and its implementation.

For
several years, Congress has passed bills granting successive short-term exemptions from a federal law that could otherwise delay or block funding of the USF's
E-rate program, including a bill extending the exemption through December 31, 2012. Although we expect funding from this program to continue, we cannot assure you that the lack of a
definitive resolution of this issue will not delay or impede the disbursement of funds in the future.

We
received approximately $510 million, $431 million and $385 million of revenue from federal and state universal service programs for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively. Such amounts represented approximately 3.3%, 6.1% and 7.7% of our 2011, 2010 and 2009 total operating revenues, respectively.

Competition

We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market and we expect intense competition to continue. We compete with cable
companies, wireless providers, and national telecommunications providers, such as AT&T, Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. Technological









advances,
regulatory and legislative changes have increased opportunities for alternative communications service providers, which in turn have increased competitive pressures on our business. These
alternate providers often face fewer regulations and have lower cost structures than we do. In addition, the telecommunications industry has experienced substantial consolidation over the past
decade and some of our competitors are generally larger, may have more financial and business resources and have broader service offerings than we currently do.

Over
the past decade, fundamental technological, regulatory and legislative changes have significantly impacted the communications industry, and we expect these changes will continue.
Primarily as a result of regulatory and technological changes, competition has been introduced and encouraged in each sector of the communications industry in recent years. As a result, we
increasingly face competition from other communication service providers, as further described below.

Wireless
telephone services increasingly constitute a significant source of competition with our ILEC services, especially since wireless carriers have begun to compete effectively on
the basis of price with more traditional telephone services. As a result, some customers have chosen to completely forego use of traditional wireline phone service and instead rely solely on wireless
service for voice services. We anticipate this trend will continue, particularly if wireless service providers continue to expand their coverage areas, reduce their rates, improve the quality of their
services, and offer enhanced new services. Substantially all of our access line customers are currently capable of receiving wireless services from at least one competitive service provider.
Technological and regulatory developments in wireless services, personal communications services, digital microwave, satellite, coaxial cable, fiber optics, local multipoint distribution services,
WiFi, and other wired and wireless technologies are expected to further permit the development of alternatives to traditional landline services. Moreover, the growing prevalence of electronic mail,
text messaging, social networking, and similar digital communications continues to reduce the demand for traditional landline voice services.

The
Telecommunications Act of 1996, which obligates ILECs to permit competitors to interconnect their facilities to the ILEC's network and to take various other steps that are designed
to promote competition, imposes several duties on an ILEC if it receives a specific request from another entity which seeks to connect with or provide services using the ILEC's network. In addition,
each ILEC is obligated to (i) negotiate interconnection agreements in good faith, (ii) provide nondiscriminatory "unbundled" access to all aspects of the ILEC's network,
(iii) offer resale of its telecommunications services at wholesale rates and (iv) permit competitors, on terms and conditions (including rates) that are just, reasonable and
nondiscriminatory, to collocate their physical plant on the ILEC's property, or provide virtual collocation if physical collocation is not practicable. Current FCC rules require ILECs to lease a
network element only in those situations where competing carriers genuinely would be impaired without access to such network elements, and where the unbundling would not interfere with the development
of facilities-based competition.

As
a result of these regulatory, consumer and technological developments, ILECs also face competition from competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, particularly in densely
populated areas. CLECs provide competing services through reselling the ILECs' local services, through use of the ILECs' unbundled network elements or through their own facilities.

As
noted above, wireless and other competitive services providers have been increasingly aggressive in seeking and obtaining USF support funds. This support is likely to encourage
additional competitors to enter our high-cost service areas.

Technological
developments have led to the development of new services that compete with traditional ILEC services. Technological improvements have enabled cable television companies to
provide traditional circuit-switched telephone service over their cable networks, and several national cable companies have aggressively pursued this opportunity.









Similar
to us, many cable, technology or other communications companies that previously offered a limited range of services are now offering diversified bundles of services, either
through their own networks, reselling arrangements or joint ventures. As such, a growing number of companies are competing to serve the communications needs of the same customer base. Such activities
will continue to place downward pressure on the demand for our access lines and the pricing of our services.

In
addition to facing direct competition from those providers described above, ILECs increasingly face competition from alternate communication systems constructed by long distance
carriers, large customers or alternative access vendors. These systems are capable of originating or terminating calls without use of the ILECs' networks or switching services. Other potential sources
of competition include non-carrier systems that are capable of bypassing ILECs' local networks, either partially or completely, through various means, including the provision of special
access or independent switching services and the concentration of telecommunications traffic on a few of the ILECs' access lines. We anticipate that all these trends will continue and lead to
decreased use of our networks.

Below
is more specific information on how these trends in competition have impacted our segments.

Regional Markets

Strategic Services

With respect to our strategic services, competition is based on price, bandwidth, service, promotions and bundled offerings. Wireless
carriers' fourth generation, or 4G, services are allowing them to more directly compete with our strategic services. In reselling DIRECTV video services, we compete primarily with cable and other
satellite companies as well as other sales agents and resellers. Many of our competitors for these strategic services are not subject to the same regulatory requirements as we are and therefore they
are able to avoid significant regulatory costs and obligations.

Our
strategy is to focus on increasing the subscribers of our broadband services. In order to remain competitive, we believe continually increasing connection speeds is important. As a
result, we continue to invest in our fiber to the node, or FTTN, deployment, which allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services. While traditional ATM-based broadband
services are declining, they have been more than offset by growth in fiber-based broadband services. We also continue to expand our product offerings including facilities-based video services and
enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a maturing market in which a significant portion of consumers already have broadband services.

Legacy Services

Although our status as an ILEC continues to provide us some advantages in providing legacy services in our local service area, we
increasingly face significant competition as an increasing number of consumers are willing to substitute cable, wireless and electronic communications for traditional voice telecommunications
services. This has led to an increase in the number and type of competitors within our industry and a decrease in our market share. As a result of this product substitution, we face greater
competition in providing local and long-distance services from wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves) and from broadband service providers, including cable
companies. We also continue to compete with traditional telecommunications providers, such as national carriers, smaller regional providers, CLECs and independent telephone companies.

Our
strategy to reduce access line loss is based primarily on our pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs. While bundle price
discounts have resulted in lower average revenues for our individual services, we believe service bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention. In addition to our bundle discounts, we
also offer limited









time
promotions on our broadband service for prospective customers who want our broadband service in their bundle which further aids our ability to attract and retain customers and increase usage of
our services.

Business Markets

Strategic Services

In connection with providing strategic services to our business customers, we compete primarily with cable companies, interexchange
carriers and other broadband service providers. Competition is based on price, bandwidth, service, promotions and bundled offerings. In addition, our mix of total revenues derived from business
customers continues to migrate from legacy services to strategic services as our enterprise and government customers increasingly demand customized and integrated data, Internet and voice services.

Our
strategy is based primarily on pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs. Although we are experiencing price compression on our
strategic services, we expect overall revenues from these services to grow.

Legacy Services

In providing our legacy services to our business market customers, we face the same competitive pressures as we face in providing our
strategic services, as discussed above.

Data Integration

In providing data integration to our customers, we compete primarily with large integrators, equipment providers and national
telecommunication providers. Competition is based on package offerings and as such we focus on providing these customers individualized and customizable packages. Our strategy is to provide our data
integration through packages that include other strategic and legacy services. As such, in providing data integration we often face many of the same competitive pressures as we face in providing
strategic and legacy services, as discussed above.

Wholesale Markets

Strategic Services

In providing private line (including special access) services to our wholesale markets customers, we compete with large cable
companies, as well as other regional and national carriers and other fiber providers and CLECs. Demand for our private line services continues to increase, despite our customers' optimization of their
networks, industry consolidation and technological migration. While we expect that these factors will continue to impact our wholesale markets segment, we ultimately believe the growth in fiber-based
special access provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, offset the decline in copper-based special access provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services,
although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain.

Legacy Services

The provision of our legacy services to other communications providers is highly competitive, and has been and will continue to be
adversely affected by technological migration, industry consolidation and rate reductions. We face significant competition for access services from CLECs, cable companies, resellers and wireless
service providers as well as some of our own wholesale markets customers, which are deploying their own networks to provide customers with local services. By
doing so, these competitors reduce traffic on our network. In addition, our long-distance revenues continue to decline









as
a result of customer migration to more technologically advanced services, price compression, and declining demand for traditional voice services.

Savvis Operations

Our competitors for hosting, colocation and other IT services range from telecommunications companies, hardware manufacturers and
system integrators that support the in-house IT operations for a business or offer outsourcing solutions. Due to the size and capacity of some of these companies, they may be able to offer
more inexpensive solutions to our customers. To compete, we focus on providing complex, secure and performance-driven services to our business customers through our global infrastructure. Our services
can be purchased individually or as part of a total outsourcing arrangement. Our keys to growth include targeting the right clients, offering targeted business solutions to solve specific client needs
and delivering compelling and comprehensive technical capabilities.

For
our colocation services, we continue to see pricing pressures with respect to these services as low-cost wholesale colocation providers continue to enter our market, and
we expect this trend to continue. Our Savvis network services continue to see pricing pressures on virtual private network and bandwidth services offset by increases in network services that support
our colocation and managed hosting service offerings.

Environmental Compliance

As discussed in greater detail in Item 3 of this report, several decades ago one of our subsidiaries acquired entities that may
have owned or operated seven former "manufactured gas" plant sites that may require environmental remediation. From time to time we may incur other environmental compliance and remediation expenses,
mainly resulting from the ownership of other prior industrial sites or the operation of vehicle fleets or power supplies for our communications equipment. Although we cannot assess with certainty the
impact of any future compliance and
remediation obligations, we do not believe that future environmental compliance and remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

Seasonality

Overall, our business is not significantly impacted by seasonality. From time to time weather related problems have resulted in
increased costs to repair our network and respond to service calls in some of our markets. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to the weather patterns of any given year, but have
generally been highest during the third quarter and have been related to damage from severe storms, including hurricanes, tropical storms and tornadoes in our markets along the lower Atlantic and Gulf
of Mexico coastlines.

Employees

At December 31, 2011, we had approximately 49,000 employees, of which approximately 20,000 were members of either the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ("IBEW") or the Communications Workers of America ("CWA"). We believe that relations with our employees continue to be generally good.

Approximately
15,000 of the union-represented employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expire throughout 2012. See the discussion of risks relating to our labor
relations in "Risk Factors—Other Risks" in Item 1A of this report.

Our
headcount is significantly higher than previous years due to our acquisition of Qwest on April 1, 2011 and Savvis on July 15, 2011. We have partially offset these
increases with reductions of









our
workforce primarily due to (i) integration efforts from our acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis; (ii) increased competitive pressures; and (iii) the loss of access lines over the
last several years.

Website Access and Important Investor Information

Our website iswww.centurylink.com. The information contained on, or that may be
accessed through, our website is not part of this annual report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website
(ir.centurylink.com) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC.

We
have adopted written codes of conduct that serve as the code of ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior
financial officers, in accordance with applicable laws and rules promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. In the event that we make any changes (other than by a technical,
administrative or non-substantive amendment) to, or provide any waivers from, the provisions of our code of conduct applicable to our directors or executive officers, we intend to disclose
these events on our website or in a report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. These codes of conduct, as well as copies of our guidelines on significant governance issues and the
charters of our audit committee, compensation committee, nominating and corporate governance committee and risk evaluation committee, are also available in the "Corporate Governance" section of our
website atwww.centurylink.com/Pages/AboutUs/Governance/or in print to any shareholder who requests them by sending a written request to our Corporate
Secretary at CenturyLink, Inc., 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe, Louisiana, 71203.

Investors
may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. For information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room, you are encouraged to call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. For all of our electronic filings, the SEC maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy
and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

In
connection with filing this annual report, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer made the certifications regarding our financial disclosures required under the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the Act's related regulations. In addition, during 2011, our chief executive officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was unaware of any violations by
us of the New York Stock Exchange's corporate governance listing standards.

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities law include, and future oral or written statements or press
releases by us and our management may include, forward-looking statements about our financial condition, operating results and business. These statements include, among
others:

•statements concerning the benefits that we expect will result from our business activities and certain transactions we
have completed, such as increased revenue and decreased capital or operating expenditures;•statements about our anticipated future operating and financial performance, financial position and liquidity, tax
position, contingent liabilities, growth opportunities and growth rates, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, business prospects, regulatory and competitive outlook, investment and expenditure
plans, investment results, financing alternatives and sources and pricing plans; and









•other similar statements of our expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated developments and other
matters that are not historical facts, many of which are highlighted by words such as "may," "would," "could," "should," "plan," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "projects,"
"intends," "likely," "seeks," "hopes," or variations or similar expressions.

These
forward-looking statements are based upon our judgment and assumptions as of the date such statements are made concerning future developments and events, many of which are outside
of our control. These forward-looking statements, and the assumptions upon which they are based, are inherently speculative and are subject to uncertainties that may cause our actual results to be
materially different from any future results expressed or implied by us in those statements. Some of these uncertainties and risks are described in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report.

These
risk factors should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we or persons acting on our behalf may issue. Anticipated events may not
occur and our actual results or performance may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying
assumptions prove incorrect. Additional risks that we currently deem immaterial or that are not presently known to us could also cause our actual results to differ materially from our expected
results. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements for any
reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Further, the information about our intentions contained in this document is a
statement of our intentions as of the date of this document and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory environment, industry conditions, market conditions and prices, the economy
in general and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise.

Investors
should also be aware that while we do, at various times, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material
non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst irrespective of the
content of the statement or report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility.

Unless
otherwise indicated, information contained in this report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities laws concerning our views and expectations regarding the
communications industry are based on estimates made by us using data from industry sources, and on assumptions made by us based on our management's knowledge and experience in the markets in which we
operate and the communications industry generally. You should be aware that we have not independently verified data from industry or other third-party sources and cannot guarantee its accuracy or
completeness. Our estimates and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed in Item 1A of this report.

