ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential, business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, broadband, private line (including special access), Multi-Protocol Label Switching ("MPLS"), data integration, managed hosting (including cloud hosting), colocation, Ethernet, network access, video, wireless and other ancillary services. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services.

Based on our approximately12.4 milliontotal access lines atDecember 31, 2014, we believe we are the third largest wireline telecommunications company in the United States. We operate 74% of our total access lines in portions ofColorado, Arizona, Washington, Minnesota, Florida, North Carolina, Oregon, Iowa, Utah, New Mexico, Missouri, and Nevada. We also provide local service in portions ofIdaho, Ohio, Wisconsin, Virginia, Texas, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, Montana, Alabama, Indiana, Arkansas, Wyoming, Tennessee, New Jersey, South Dakota, North Dakota, Kansas, Louisiana, South Carolina, Michigan, Illinois, Georgia, Mississippi, Oklahoma, and California. In the portion of these37states where we have access lines, which we refer to as our local service area, we are the incumbent local telephone company.

AtDecember 31, 2014we served approximately6.1 millionbroadband subscribers. We also operate58data centers throughout North America, Europe and Asia.

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Louisiana in 1968. Our principal executive offices are located at 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203 and our telephone number is (318) 388-9000.

For a discussion of certain risks applicable to our business, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report. The summary financial information in this section should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report.

Financial and Operational Highlights

The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations:Years Ended December 31,2014(1)2013(2)2012(Dollars in millions)Consolidated statements of operations summary data:Operating revenues$18,03118,09518,376Operating expenses15,62116,64215,663Operating income$2,4101,4532,713Net income (loss)$772(239)777_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)During 2014, we recognized a $60 million tax benefit associated with a worthless stock deduction for the tax basis in a wholly-owned foreign subsidiary and a $63 million pension settlement charge. For additional information, see Note 17—Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report.

(2)During 2013, we recorded a non-cash, non-tax-deductible goodwill impairment charge of $1.092 billion for goodwill attributed to our then hosting (now business) segment and a litigation settlement charge of $235 million.










The following table summarizes certain selected financial information from our consolidated balance sheets:As of December 31,20142013(Dollars in millions)Consolidated balance sheets summary data:Total assets$50,14751,787Total long-term debt(1)20,67120,966Total stockholders' equity15,02317,191_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)Total long-term debt is the sum of current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheets. For information on our total obligations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Future Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report.

The following table summarizes certain of our operational metrics:As of December 31,201420132012(in thousands except for data centers, which are actuals)Operational metrics:Total broadband subscribers(1)6,0825,9915,851Total access lines(1)12,39413,00213,751Total data centers(2)585554_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)Broadband subscribers are customers that purchase high-speed Internet connection service through their existing telephone lines, stand-alone telephone lines, or fiber-optic cables, and access lines are lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public network. Our methodology for counting our broadband subscribers and access lines includes only those lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. It also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. We count lines when we install the service.

(2)We define a data center as any facility where we market, sell and deliver either colocation services, multi-tenant managed services, or both. Our data centers are located throughout North America, Europe and Asia.

Our methodology for counting access lines, broadband subscribers and data centers may not be comparable to those of other companies.

Substantially all of our long-lived assets are located in the United Statesandsubstantially all of our total consolidated operating revenues are from customers located in the United States. We estimate that approximately 2% of our consolidated revenues is derived from providing telecommunications and hosting services outside the United States.

Operations

Segments

Effective November 1, 2014, we implemented a new organizational structure designed to strengthen our ability to attain our operational, strategic and financial goals. Prior to this reorganization, we operated and reported as four segments: business, consumer, wholesale and hosting. As a result of this reorganization, we now operate and report the following two segments in our consolidated financial statements:

•Business.Consists generally of providing strategic, legacy and data integration products and services to enterprise, wholesale and governmental customers, including other communication providers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our private line (including special access), broadband, Ethernet, MPLS, Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP"), network management services, colocation, managed hosting and cloud hosting services. Our legacy services offered to these customers primarily include switched access, long-distance, and local services, including the sale of unbundled network elements ("UNEs") which allow our wholesale customers to use our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers; and










•Consumer.Consists generally of providing strategic and legacy products and services to residential customers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our broadband, wireless and video services, including our Prism TV services. Our legacy services offered to these customers include local and long-distance service.

The following table shows the composition of our revenues by segment under our current segment categorization for the years ended December 31,2014,2013and2012:Years Ended December 31,Percent Change2014201320122014 vs 20132013 vs 2012Percentage of revenues:Business61%61%60%—%1%Consumer33%33%34%—%(1)%Other operating revenues6%6%6%—%—%Total100%100%100%

For additional information on our segment data, including information on our certain centrally-managed assets and expenses not reflected in our segment results, see Note 12—Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report.

Products and Services

Our products and services include local and long-distance, broadband, private line (including special access), MPLS, data integration, managed hosting (including cloud hosting), colocation, Ethernet, network access, video, wireless and other ancillary services.

We offer our customers the ability to bundle together several products and services. For example, we offer integrated and unlimited local and long-distance services. Our customers can also bundle two or more services such as broadband, video (including DIRECTV through our strategic partnership), voice and Verizon Wireless (through our strategic partnership) services. We believe our customers value the convenience and price discounts associated with receiving multiple services through a single company.

Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper cables, fiber-optic cables and other equipment. Our network serves approximately12.4 millionaccess lines and forms a portion of the public switched telephone network, or PSTN. For more information on our network, see “Business—Network Architecture” below.

Described below are our key products and services.

Strategic Services

We primarily focus our marketing and sales efforts on our “strategic” services, which are those services for which demand remains strong and that we believe are most important to our future performance. Generally speaking, our strategic services enable our customers to access the Internet, connect to private networks and transmit and store data, and enhance the security, reliability and efficiency of our customers’ communications and data storage. Our strategic services are comprised of the following:

•Broadband.Our broadband services allow customers to connect to the Internet through their existing telephone lines or fiber-optic cables at high speeds. Substantially all of our broadband subscribers are located within the local service area of our wireline telephone operations;

•Private Line.A private line (including special access) is a direct circuit or channel specifically dedicated for the purpose of directly connecting two or more sites. Private line service offers a high-speed, secure solution for frequent transmission of large amounts of data between sites, including some wireless backhaul;

•MPLS.Multi-Protocol Label Switching is standards-approved data networking technology that we provide to support real-time voice and video. This technology allows network operators flexibility to divert and route traffic around link failures, congestion and bottlenecks;










•Managed Hosting.Managed hosting includes provision of centralized information technology ("IT") infrastructure and a variety of managed services including cloud and traditional computing, application management, back-up, storage, and advanced services including planning, design, implementation and support services;

•Colocation.Colocation services enable our customers to install their own IT equipment in our state-of-the-art data centers through our centralized IT infrastructure;

•Ethernet.Ethernet services include point-to-point and multi-point configurations that facilitate data transmissions across metropolitan areas and wide area networks. Ethernet services are also used to provide transmission services to wireless service providers that use our fiber-optic cables connected to their towers;

•Video.Our video services include our facilities-based video, marketed as CenturyLink Prism, which is a premium entertainment service that allows our customers to watch hundreds of television or cable channels and record up to four shows on one home digital video recorder. We also offer satellite digital television under an arrangement with DIRECTV that allows us to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name;

•VoIP.Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, is a real-time, two-way voice communication service (similar to our traditional voice services) that originates over a broadband connection and often terminates on the PSTN; and

•Managed Services.Managed services represents a blend of network, hosting, cloud, and IT services, typically combined with customer premise equipment. These services include development of solutions to customers' communications requirements, end-to-end deployment and the ongoing operation and proactive management of the solution for the customer. Managed services may also include consulting and software development.

Legacy Services

Our "legacy" services represent our traditional voice, data and network services, which include the following:

•Local Voice Service.We offer local calling services for our residential and business customers within the local service area of our wireline markets, generally for a fixed monthly charge. These services include a number of enhanced calling features and other services, such as call forwarding, caller identification, conference calling, voice mail, selective call ringing and call waiting, for which we generally charge an additional monthly fee. We also generate revenues from non-recurring services, such as inside wire installation, maintenance services, service activation and reactivation. For our wholesale customers, our local calling service offerings include primarily the resale of our voice services and the sale of UNEs, which allow our wholesale customers to use our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers. Local calling services provided to our wholesale customers allow other telecommunications companies the ability to originate or terminate telecommunications services on our network;

•Long-distance Voice Service.We offer our residential, business and wholesale customers domestic and international long-distance services and toll-free services. Our international long-distance services include voice calls that either terminate or originate with our customers in the United States;

•ISDN.We offer integrated services digital network ("ISDN") services, which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications;

•WAN.We offer wide area network ("WAN") services, which allow a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations; and

•Switched Access Services.As part of our wholesale services, we provide various forms of switched access services to wireline and wireless service providers for the use of our facilities to originate and terminate their interstate and intrastate voice transmissions.

Data Integration

Data integration includes the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and the building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and business customers.

Other Revenues

Other operating revenues include Universal Service Fund ("USF") support and USF surcharges and the leasing and subleasing of space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. The majority of our real estate properties are located in the local service area of our wireline operations.










Additional Information

From time to time, we also make investments in other communications or technology companies.

For further information on regulatory, technological and competitive changes that could impact our revenues, see "Regulation" and "Competition" under this Item 1 below and "Risk Factors" under Item 1A below. For more information on the financial contributions of our various services, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report.

Patents, Trade Names, Trademarks and Copyrights

Either directly or through our subsidiaries, we have rights in various patents, trade names, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property necessary to conduct our business, such as our CenturyLink®and Prism®brand names. Our services often use the intellectual property of others, including licensed software. We also occasionally license our intellectual property to others.

We periodically receive offers from third parties to purchase or obtain licenses for patents and other intellectual property rights in exchange for royalties or other payments. We also periodically receive notices, or are named in lawsuits, alleging that our products or services infringe on patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. In certain instances, these matters can potentially adversely impact our operations, operating results or financial position. For additional information, see “Risk Factors—Risks Impacting Our Business” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report, and Note 14—Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report.

Sales and Marketing

We maintain local offices in most of the larger population centers within our local service area. These offices provide sales and customer support services in the community. We also rely on our call center personnel to promote sales of services that meet the needs of our customers. Our strategy is to enhance our sales by offering a comprehensive bundle of services and deploying new technologies to further enhance customer loyalty.

We conduct most of our operations under the brand name "CenturyLink." Our satellite television service is offered on a co-branded basis under the "DIRECTV" name. Our switched digital television service offering is branded under the name "Prism." The wireless service that we offer under our agency agreement with Verizon Wireless is marketed under the "Verizon Wireless" brand name.

Our approach to our residential customers emphasizes customer-oriented sales, marketing and service with a local presence. We market our products and services primarily through direct sales representatives, inbound call centers, local retail stores, telemarketing and third parties. We support our distribution with direct mail, bill inserts, newspaper and television advertising, website promotions, public relations activities and sponsorship of community events and sports venues.

Similarly, our approach to our business, wholesale and governmental customers includes a commitment to provide comprehensive communications solutions for small office, mid-sized and select enterprise business and governmental customers. We market our products and services primarily through direct sales representatives, inbound call centers, telemarketing and third parties. We also market through indirect channels, including collaboration with existing clients and technology providers, telecommunications companies and system integrators.

Network Architecture

Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice switches, data switches and routers, high-speed transport equipment, fiber-optic and copper cables and other equipment. Our local exchange carrier networks also include central offices and remote site assets. A substantial portion of our equipment operates with licensed software. As ofDecember 31, 2014, we maintained approximately1.1 millionmiles of copper plant and approximately177 thousandmiles of fiber-optic plant.

Most of our long-distance voice service is provided directly through our own switches and network equipment, with the balance being provided through reselling arrangements with other long-distance carriers. All of our satellite television and wireless voice service is provided by other carriers under agency agreements.










We continue to enhance and expand our network by deploying broadband-enabled technologies to provide additional capacity to our customers. Rapid and significant changes in technology are expected to continue in the telecommunications industry. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in customer demands and technology. In particular, we anticipate that continued increases in broadband usage by our customers will require us to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity or to implement network management practices to alleviate network capacity shortages. In addition, if the Federal Communications Commission requires higher minimum transmission speeds to qualify as "broadband service", we may determine that additional capital spending is necessary. Any such additional expenditures could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.

Similarly, we continue to take steps to simplify and modernize our network, which is comprised of our legacy network combined with the network of several companies we have acquired in the past. To attain our objectives, we plan to continue to undertake several complex projects that we expect will be costly and take several years to complete. The costs of these projects could increase materially if we conclude that we need to replace any or all of our legacy systems. Like other large telecommunications companies, we are a target of cyber-attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis, which has caused us to spend increasingly more time and money to deal with increasingly sophisticated attacks.

For additional information regarding our systems, network, cyber risks and capital expenditure requirements, see "Risk Factors", generally, in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report, and, in particular, "Risk Factors—Risks Affecting Our Business" and "—Risks Affecting Our Liquidity and Capital Resources." For more information on our properties, see Item 2 of Part I of this Annual Report.

Regulation

We are subject to significant regulation by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"), which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications. These agencies (i) issue rules to protect consumers and promote competition, (ii) set the rates that telecommunication companies charge each other for exchanging traffic, and (iii) have traditionally established USF to support the provision of services to high-cost areas. In most states, local voice service, switched and special access services and interconnection services are subject to price regulation, although the extent of regulation varies by type of service and geographic region. In addition, we are required to maintain licenses with the FCC and with state utility commissions. Laws and regulations in many states restrict the manner in which a licensed entity can interact with affiliates, transfer assets, issue debt and engage in other business activities, and many acquisitions and divestitures require approval by the FCC and some state commissions.

Our telephone operating companies are considered incumbent local exchange carriers ("ILECs"). Historically, ILECs operated as regulated monopolies having the exclusive right and responsibility to provide local telephone services in their franchised service territories. As we discuss in greater detail below, passage of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, coupled with state legislative and regulatory initiatives and technological change, fundamentally altered the telephone industry by generally reducing the regulation of ILECs and creating a substantial increase in the number of competitors. The following description discusses some of the major industry regulations that affect our traditional telephone operations, but numerous other regulations not discussed below could also impact us. Some legislation and regulations are currently the subject of judicial, legislative and administrative proceedings which could substantially change the manner in which the telecommunications industry operates and the amount of revenues we receive for our services. Neither the outcome of these proceedings, nor their potential impact on us, can be predicted at this time. For additional information, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report.

Federal Regulation

General

We are required to comply with the Communications Act of 1934, which requires us to offer services at just and reasonable rates and on non-discriminatory terms, as well as the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which amended the Communications Act of 1934 primarily to promote competition.

The FCC regulates interstate services we provide, including the special access charges we bill for wholesale network transmission and the interstate access charges that we bill to long-distance companies and other communications companies in connection with the origination and termination of interstate phone calls. Additionally, the FCC regulates a number of aspects of our business related to privacy, homeland security and network infrastructure, including access to and use of local telephone numbers. The FCC has responsibility for maintaining and administering the federal USF, which provides substantial support for deploying broadband and maintaining networks in high-cost areas, as well as supporting service to low-income households, schools and libraries, and rural health care providers. Like other communications network operators, ILECs must obtain FCC approval to use certain radio frequencies, or to transfer control of any such licenses. The FCC retains the right to revoke these licenses if a carrier materially violates relevant legal requirements.










In recent years, our operations and those of other telecommunications carriers have been further impacted by legislation and regulation imposing additional obligations on us, particularly with regards to providing broadband service, bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery requirements, minimizing environmental impacts and enhancing privacy. These laws include the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, and laws governing local telephone number portability and customer proprietary network information requirements. These laws and regulations may cause us to incur additional costs and could impact our ability to compete effectively.

In December 2012, the FCC initiated a special access proceeding and has requested data, information and documents to allow it to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of competition in the special access market. As part of its evaluations, the FCC is reviewing special access rates, terms and conditions. The ultimate impact of this proceeding on the Company is currently unknown. However, if the FCC were to adopt significant changes in regulations affecting special access services, this could adversely impact our operations or financial results.

Intercarrier Compensation and Universal Service

For decades, the FCC has regularly (i) considered various intercarrier compensation reforms, generally with a goal to create a uniform mechanism to be used by the entire telecommunications industry for payments between carriers originating, terminating, or carrying telecommunications traffic, and (ii) administrated the federal (USF).

In October 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("the 2011 order"), intended to reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize ongoing shifts to new technologies, including VoIP, and re-direct universal service funding to foster nationwide broadband coverage. The 2011 order provides for a multi-year transition as terminating intercarrier compensation charges are reduced, universal service funding is explicitly targeted to broadband deployment, and line charges paid by end user customers are increased. These changes have substantially increased the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues related to our wholesale services, while creating opportunities for increased federal USF support and retail revenue funding.

As a result of the 2011 order, a new Universal Service program was created to deploy broadband to unserved rural areas utilizing the Connect America Fund or "CAF". Once implemented, the CAF will substantially replace legacy USF funding previously utilized to provide support for voice service in high-cost rural markets. There are two phases to the CAF program, CAF Phase 1 is a one-time broadband grant program while CAF Phase 2 is a multi-year recurring subsidy program for more extensive broadband deployment in price-cap ILEC territories.

In late 2011, numerous parties filed a petition for reconsideration with the FCC seeking numerous revisions to the 2011 order. In January 2012, we joined more than two dozen parties in challenging certain aspects of the 2011 order by filing a separate appeal that was heard by the United States Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals in November 2013. The Tenth Circuit subsequently issued a decision in May 2014 that largely upheld the 2011 order. Multiple other parties have further appealed to the United States Supreme Court. Future judicial challenges to the 2011 order are also possible, which could alter or delay the FCC's proposed changes. In addition, based on the outcome of the FCC proceedings, various state commissions may consider changes to their universal service funds or intrastate access rates. Moreover, rulemaking designed to implement the order is not complete, and several FCC proceedings relating to the order remain pending. For these and other reasons, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings at this time.

In December 2014, the FCC issued an order specifying the broadband build-out standards and term of the CAF Phase 2 program. To the extent we accept funding under the program, we will be required to deploy broadband service with download speeds of 10 megabits per second (Mbps) and upload speeds of 1 Mbps in unserved rural markets selected by the FCC. The initial CAF Phase 2 term will begin in 2015 and is expected to conclude in 2021. In early 2015, the FCC plans to finalize the allocation of CAF Phase 2 funding. We anticipate that the total amount of CAF Phase 2 funding offered to us will exceed $500 million annually. Once the CAF Phase 2 funding order is released, we will have 120 days to determine whether to accept the CAF Phase 2 funding on a state-by-state basis. If we do not accept the funding and its associated obligation to build in a state, the CAF Phase 2 funding for that state will be auctioned, perhaps as early as 2016. We, as well as other parties, can participate in the auction process.

In states where we accept the CAF Phase 2 funding, the annual distributions will begin in 2015. In states where we do not accept CAF Phase 2 support, the legacy USF high-cost loop support we have historically received will continue until the CAF Phase 2 auctions are completed. Our acceptance of CAF Phase 2 support payments could significantly increase our capital expense requirements in order to provide the requisite broadband services to end users.










As of the date of filing of this Annual Report, we have not yet decided whether to accept or reject any specific build-out opportunities and related CAF support payments available to us under the Phase 2 program. Regardless of our decision, we expect the CAF Phase 2 program will impact us financially.

For additional information about the potential financial impact of the CAF Phase 2 program, see Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report.

We received approximately$523 million,$534 millionand$543 millionof revenues from federal and state universal service support programs for the years ended December 31,2014,2013and2012, respectively. Such amounts represented approximately2.9%,3.0%and3.0%of our2014,2013and2012total operating revenues, respectively.

Broadband Regulation

The FCC is contemplating the adoption of rules in early 2015 that would introduce regulations on certain aspects of broadband and internet services. We anticipate that any such rules would be reviewed by both the courts and Congress. At this time, we cannot estimate the impact such rules would have on our business.

The FCC recently proposed a new broadband standard of 25 Mbps download speed and 3 Mbps of upload speed. At this time, we are not aware of any regulatory mandates requiring us to deploy this target speed. The new target is simply a benchmark by which the FCC will evaluate broadband deployment progress in the future. However, the FCC could attempt to utilize this broadband speed target in future regulatory proceedings.

State Regulation

In recent years, most states have reduced their regulation of ILECs. Nonetheless, state regulatory commissions generally continue to regulate local service rates, intrastate access charges, state universal service funds and in some cases service quality. We are generally regulated under various forms of alternative regulation that typically limit our ability to increase rates for stand-alone, basic local voice service, but relieve us from the requirement to meet certain earnings tests. In a number of states, we have gained pricing freedom for the majority of retail services other than stand-alone basic consumer voice service. In most of the states in which we operate, we have gained pricing flexibility for certain enhanced calling services, such as caller identification and for bundled services that also include local voice service.

Under state law, our telephone operating subsidiaries are typically governed by laws and regulations that (i) regulate the purchase and sale of ILECs, (ii) prescribe certain reporting requirements, (iii) require ILECs to provide service under publicly-filed tariffs setting forth the terms, conditions and prices of regulated services, (iv) limit ILECs' ability to borrow and pledge their assets, (v) regulate transactions between ILECs and their affiliates and (vi) impose various other service standards.

Unlike many of our competitors, as an ILEC we generally face "carrier of last resort" obligations which include an ongoing requirement to provide service to all prospective and current customers in our service area who request service and are willing to pay rates prescribed in our tariffs. In certain situations, this may constitute a competitive disadvantage to us if competitors can choose to focus on low-cost profitable customers and withhold service from high-cost unprofitable customers. In addition, strict adherence to carrier-of-last-resort requirements may force us to construct facilities with a low likelihood of attractive economic return.

We operate in states where traditional cost recovery mechanisms, including rate structures, are under evaluation or have been modified. As laws and regulations change, there can be no assurance that these mechanisms will continue to provide us with any cost recovery.

For several years, we have faced various carrier complaints, legislation or other investigations regarding our intrastate switched access rates in several of our states. The FCC's 2011 order preempted state regulatory commissions’ jurisdiction over all terminating access charges, including intrastate access charges that have historically been subject to exclusive state jurisdiction. Excluding the rate implications contemplated on a prospective basis by this FCC order, we will continue to vigorously defend and seek to collect our intrastate switched access revenues subject to outstanding disputes. The outcomes of these disputes cannot be determined at this time. If we are required to reduce our intrastate switched access rates as a result of any of these disputes or state initiatives, we will seek to recover displaced switched access revenues from state universal service funds or other services. However, the amount of such recovery, particularly from residential customers, is not assured.










Other Regulations

Certain of our telecommunications and hosting services conducted in foreign countries are or may become subject to various foreign laws, including those regulating the protection and retention of data. Some of the legal requirements governing our foreign operations conflict with those governing our domestic operations, which raises our compliance costs and regulatory risks. For additional information, see “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Recent Acquisitions—Our international operations expose us to various regulatory, currency, tax, legal and other risks."

Competition

General

Primarily as a result of regulatory and technological changes, competition has been introduced and encouraged in each sector of the communications industry over the past couple of decades. As a result, we currently compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market and we expect intense competition to continue. We compete with cable and satellite companies, wireless providers, national telecommunications providers (such as AT&T, Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.) and a variety of other competitors. Technological advances and regulatory and legislative changes have increased opportunities for a wide range of alternative communications service providers, which in turn have increased competitive pressures on our business. These alternate providers often face fewer regulations and have lower cost structures than we do. In addition, the communications industry has, in recent years, experienced substantial consolidation; and some of our competitors in one or more lines of our business are generally larger, have stronger brand names, have more financial and business resources and have broader service offerings than we currently do.

Wireless telephone services increasingly constitute a significant source of competition with our ILEC services. As a result, some customers have chosen to completely forego use of traditional wireline phone service and instead rely solely on wireless service for voice services. We anticipate this trend will continue, particularly as wireless service providers continue to improve their service offerings and our older legacy customers are replaced over time with younger customers who are less accustomed to using traditional wireline voice services. Substantially all of our access line customers are currently capable of receiving wireless services from at least one competitive service provider. Technological and regulatory developments in wireless services, personal communications services, digital microwave, satellite, coaxial cable, fiber-optics, local multipoint distribution services, WiFi, and other wired and wireless technologies are expected to further permit the development of alternatives to traditional landline voice services. Moreover, the growing prevalence of electronic mail, text messaging, social networking and similar digital non-voice communications services continues to reduce the demand for traditional landline voice services.

The Telecommunications Act of 1996, which obligates ILECs to permit competitors to interconnect their facilities to the ILEC's network and to take various other steps that are designed to promote competition, imposes several duties on an ILEC if it receives a specific request from another entity which seeks to connect with or provide services using the ILEC's network. In addition, each ILEC is obligated to (i) negotiate interconnection agreements in good faith, (ii) provide nondiscriminatory "unbundled" access to all aspects of the ILEC's network, (iii) offer resale of its telecommunications services at wholesale rates and (iv) permit competitors, on terms and conditions (including rates) that are just, reasonable and nondiscriminatory, to colocate their physical plant on the ILEC's property, or provide virtual colocation if physical colocation is not practicable. Current FCC rules require ILECs to lease a network element only in those situations where competing carriers genuinely would be impaired without access to such network elements, and where the unbundling would not interfere with the development of facilities-based competition.

As a result of these regulatory, consumer and technological developments, ILECs also face competition from competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, particularly in densely populated areas. CLECs provide competing services through reselling an ILEC's local services, through use of an ILEC's unbundled network elements or through their own facilities.

Technological developments have led to the development of new products and services that have reduced the demand for our traditional services, as noted above, or that compete with traditional ILEC services. Technological improvements have enabled cable television companies to provide traditional circuit-switched telephone service over their cable networks, and several national cable companies have aggressively marketed these services. Similarly, companies providing VoIP services provide voice communication services over the Internet which compete with our traditional telephone service and our own VoIP services. In addition, demand for our broadband services could be adversely affected by advanced wireless data transmission technologies being deployed by wireless providers and by certain technologies permitting cable companies and other competitors to deliver faster average broadband transmission speeds than ours. Rapid changes in technology are also increasing the competiveness of the information technology services industry.










Similar to us, many cable, technology or other communications companies that previously offered a limited range of services are now offering diversified bundles of services, either through their own networks, reselling arrangements or joint ventures. As such, a growing number of companies are competing to serve the communications needs of the same customer base. Such activities will continue to place downward pressure on the demand for and pricing of our services.

As both residential and business customers increasingly demand high-speed connections for entertainment, communications and productivity, we expect the demands on our network will continue to increase over the next several years. To succeed, we and other network-based providers must ensure that our networks can deliver services that meet these increasing bandwidth and speed requirements. We plan to continue to invest in our network to be able to meet this future demand. In addition, network reliability and security are increasingly important competitive factors in the enterprise business.

In addition to facing direct competition from those providers described above, ILECs increasingly face competition from alternate communication systems constructed by long distance carriers, large customers or alternative access vendors. These systems are capable of originating or terminating calls without use of an ILEC's networks or switching services. Other potential sources of competition include non-carrier systems that are capable of bypassing ILECs' local networks, either partially or completely, through various means, including the provision of special access or independent switching services and the concentration of telecommunications traffic on a few of an ILEC's access lines. We anticipate that all these trends will continue and lead to decreased billable use of our networks.

Additional information about competitive pressures is located (i) under the heading "Risk Factors—Risks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report and (ii) in the discussion immediately below, which contains more specific information on how these trends in competition have impacted our segments.

Business

Strategic Services

In connection with providing strategic services to our business, wholesale and governmental customers, we compete against other telecommunication providers, as well as other regional and national carriers, other fiber providers, cable companies, CLECs and other enterprises, some of whom are substantially larger than us. The manner in which we compete for broadband customers in this segment is substantially similar to the manner in which we compete for residential customers, as described in the following section. Competition for private line services is based on price, network reach and reliability, service, promotions and bundled offerings. For our wholesale customers, we believe the forecasted growth in fiber-based special access provided to wireline and wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, ultimately offset the decline in copper-based special access provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain.

Our competitors for providing integrated data, Internet, voice services and other IT services to our business and governmental customers range from mid-sized businesses to large enterprises. Due to the size and capacity of some of these companies, they may be able to offer more inexpensive solutions to our customers. To compete, we focus on providing sophisticated, secure and performance-driven services to our business customers through our global infrastructure.

The number of companies providing business services has grown and increased competition for these services, particularly with respect to smaller business customers. Many of our competitors for strategic services are not subject to the same regulatory requirements as we are and therefore they are able to avoid significant regulatory costs and obligations.

Our competitors for cloud, hosting, colocation and other IT services include telecommunications companies, technology companies, hardware manufacturers and system integrators that support the in-house IT operations for a business or offer outsourcing solutions. Due to the size and capacity of some of these companies, they may be able to offer more inexpensive solutions to our customers. The increase in recent years in the number of companies providing these services has placed substantial downward pressure on pricing for a wide range of cloud, hosting, colocation and other IT services.

Legacy Services

For all the reasons noted in "Business—Competition—Consumer—Legacy Services" we face intense competition in connection with providing our legacy services to our business and governmental customers, and continue to see customers migrating from these services into strategic services. For our wholesale customers, we will continue to be adversely affected by product substitution, technological migration, industry consolidation and mandated rate reductions. We face significant competition for access services from CLECs, cable companies, resellers and wireless service providers as well as some of our own wholesale markets customers, many of which are deploying their own networks to provide customers with local services. By doing so, these competitors reduce traffic on our network.










Data Integration

In providing data integration to our business and governmental customers, we compete primarily with large integrators, equipment providers and national telecommunication providers. Competition is based on package offerings, and as such we focus on providing these customers individualized and customizable packages. Our strategy is to provide our data integration through packages that include other strategic and legacy services. As such, in providing data integration we often face many of the same competitive pressures as we face in providing strategic and legacy services, as discussed above.

We expect data integration revenues to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our governmental customers. We further expect the profit margins on our data integration offerings to continue to be lower than those of our strategic and legacy services.

Consumer

Strategic Services

With respect to providing our strategic services to residential customers, competition is based on price, bandwidth, quality and speed of service, promotions and bundled offerings. Wireless carriers' fourth generation, or 4G, services are allowing them to more directly compete with our strategic services. In providing broadband services, we compete primarily with cable companies, wireless providers, technology companies and other broadband service providers. In reselling DIRECTV video services, we compete primarily with cable and other satellite companies as well as other sales agents and resellers. Our Prism residential video service faces substantial competition from a variety of competitors, including well-established cable companies, satellite companies and several national companies that deliver content over the Internet and on mobile devices at little or no cost to their customers. Many of our competitors for these strategic services are not subject to the same regulatory requirements as we are, and therefore are able to avoid significant regulatory costs and obligations.

Our strategy for maintaining and increasing our base of broadband customers is based on pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs. In order to remain competitive, we believe continually increasing connection speeds is important. As a result, we continue to invest in our network, which allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services. While traditional ATM-based broadband services are declining, they have been more than offset by growth in fiber-based broadband services. We also continue to expand our marketing and product bundling efforts as we compete in a maturing market in which a significant portion of consumers already have broadband services.

Legacy Services

Although our status as an ILEC continues to provide us advantages in providing local services in our local service area, as noted above, we increasingly face significant competition as an increasing number of consumers are willing to substitute cable, wireless and electronic communications for traditional voice telecommunications services. This has led to an increase in the number and type of competitors within our industry, price compression and a decrease in our market share. As a result of this product substitution, we face greater competition in providing local and long distance services from wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves), social media hosts and broadband service providers, including cable companies. We also continue to compete with traditional telecommunications providers, such as national carriers, smaller regional providers, CLECs and independent telephone companies.

Our strategy to manage access line loss is based primarily on our pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs. While bundle price discounts have resulted in lower average revenues for our individual services, we believe service bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention.

Acquisitions

Recent Acquisitions

During the fourth quarter of 2014, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of two companies for total consideration of$95 million, net of $2 million acquired cash and including immaterial future cash payments. The valuation for both acquisitions is preliminary and subject to change. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of two companies for total cash consideration of$160 million. In each case, the acquisitions were designed to augment our hosting services or our emerging IT services. The acquisitions did not materially impact the consolidated results of operations in either 2014 or 2013 and would not materially impact pro forma results of operations. For more information on the financial impact of these recent acquisitions, see Note 2—Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report.










Historical Acquisitions

On April 1, 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Qwest Communications International Inc., a provider of data, broadband, video and voice services nationwide and globally, for aggregate consideration of approximately $12.3 billion. We assumed approximately $12.7 billion of long-term debt in connection with our acquisition of Qwest Communications International Inc. In addition, on July 15, 2011, we acquired all outstanding common stock of Savvis, Inc., a provider of cloud hosting, managed hosting, colocation and network services in domestic and international markets, for aggregate consideration of approximately $2.4 billion.

On July 1, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Embarq Corporation, a provider of data, Internet, video and voice services, for aggregate consideration of $6.1 billion. We assumed approximately $4.9 billion of long-term debt in connection with this acquisition.

Potential Acquisitions

We regularly evaluate the possibility of acquiring additional assets in exchange for cash, securities or other properties, and at any given time may be engaged in discussions or negotiations regarding additional acquisitions. We generally do not announce our acquisitions or dispositions until we have entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement.

Environmental Compliance

From time to time we may incur environmental compliance and remediation expenses, mainly resulting from owning or operating prior industrial sites or operating vehicle fleets or power supplies for our communications equipment. Although we cannot assess with certainty the impact of any future compliance and remediation obligations or provide you with any assurances regarding the ultimate impact thereof, we do not currently believe that future environmental compliance and remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

Seasonality

Overall, our business is not significantly impacted by seasonality. From time to time weather related problems have resulted in increased costs to repair our network and respond to service calls in some of our markets. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to the weather patterns of any given year, but have generally been highest during the third quarter and have been related to damage from severe storms, including hurricanes, tropical storms and tornadoes in our markets along the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coastlines.

Employees

AtDecember 31, 2014, we had approximately45,000employees, of which approximately16,000are members of either the Communications Workers of America ("CWA") or the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ("IBEW"). See the discussion of risks relating to our labor relations in "Risk Factors—Risks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report.

Over the past couple of years, we have reduced our workforce primarily due to (i) integration efforts from our acquisitions, (ii) increased competitive pressures, and (iii) the loss of access lines and related legacy revenues over the last several years.

Website Access and Important Investor Information

Our website iswww.centurylink.com. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this Annual Report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website (ir.centurylink.com) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC.

We have adopted written codes of conduct that serve as the code of ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees, in accordance with applicable laws and rules promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. In the event that we make any changes (other than by a technical, administrative or non-substantive amendment) to, or provide any waivers from, the provisions of our code of conduct applicable to our directors or executive officers, we intend to disclose these events on our website or in a report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. These codes of conduct, as well as copies of our guidelines on significant governance issues and the charters of our audit committee, compensation committee, nominating and corporate governance committee and risk evaluation committee, are also available in the "Corporate Governance" section of our website atwww.centurylink.com/Pages/AboutUs/Governance/or in print to any shareholder who requests them by sending a written request to our Corporate Secretary at CenturyLink, Inc., 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe, Louisiana, 71203.










Investors may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. For information on the operation of the Public Reference Room, you are encouraged to call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. For all of our electronic filings, the SEC maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

In connection with filing this Annual Report, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer made the certifications regarding our financial disclosures required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and its related regulations. In addition, during2014, our chief executive officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was unaware of any violations by us of the New York Stock Exchange's corporate governance listing standards.

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Related Matters

This Annual Report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities law include, and future oral or written statements or press releases by us and our management may include, forward-looking statements about our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. These statements include, among others:

•statements concerning the benefits that we expect will result from our operations, investments, transactions and other activities, such as increased revenues or decreased expenditures;

•statements about our anticipated future operating and financial performance, financial position and liquidity, tax position, contingent liabilities, growth opportunities and growth rates, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, business prospects, regulatory and competitive outlook, investment and expenditure plans, dividend and stock repurchase plans, capital allocation plans, investment results, financing alternatives and sources, and pricing plans; and

•other similar statements of our expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated developments and other matters that are not historical facts, many of which are highlighted by words such as “may,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “plan,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “projects,” “intends,” “likely,” “seeks,” “hopes,” or variations or similar expressions.

These forward-looking statements are based upon our judgment and assumptions as of the date such statements are made concerning future developments and events, many of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements, and the assumptions upon which they are based, are inherently speculative and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected or implied by us in those statements if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to:

•the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers;

•the risks inherent in rapid technological change, including product displacement;

•the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry, including the outcome of regulatory or judicial proceedings relating to intercarrier compensation, access charges, universal service, broadband deployment, data protection and net neutrality;

•our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry, and changes in our markets, product mix and network;

•our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel;

•possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services, including our ability to effectively respond to increased demand for high-speed broadband service;

•our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis;

•the adverse impact on our business and network from possible equipment failures, security breaches or similar attacks on our network;

•our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages;

•our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards in projected amounts;

•our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms;

•our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled customers;










•our ability to maintain favorable relations with our key business partners, suppliers, vendors, landlords and financial institutions;

•any adverse developments in legal or regulatory proceedings involving us;

•changes in our operating plans, corporate strategies, dividend payment plans or other capital allocation plans, including those caused by changes in our cash requirements, capital expenditure needs, debt obligations, pension funding requirements, cash flows, or financial position, or other similar changes;

•the effects of adverse weather;

•other risks referenced in this Annual Report or other of our filings with the SEC; and

•the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax laws, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy.

These and other uncertainties related to our business are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report, which is subject to updating and supplementing by our subsequent SEC reports.

These factors should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we or persons acting on our behalf may issue. Additional factors or risks that we currently deem immaterial or that are not presently known to us could also cause our actual results to differ materially from our expected results. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Furthermore, any information about our intentions contained in any of our forward-looking statements reflects our intentions as of the date of such forward-looking statement, and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory and technological environment, industry and competitive conditions, and economic and market conditions, and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, strategies or plans (including our dividend or stock repurchase plans) at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise.

Investors should also be aware that while we do, at various times, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst with respect to our past or projected performance. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility.

Unless otherwise indicated, information contained in this Annual Report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities laws concerning our views and expectations regarding the communications industry are based on estimates made by us using data from industry sources, and on assumptions made by us based on our management’s knowledge and experience in the markets in which we operate and the communications industry generally. You should be aware that we have not independently verified data from industry or other third-party sources and cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness.



