Item 1.Business



On
July 1, 2009, CenturyTel, Inc. acquired Embarq Corporation (“Embarq”) in a
transaction that substantially expanded the size and scope of our
business.  Any references to results of operations, financial
condition or subscriber data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include Embarq’s
results or subscriber information after July 1, 2009 only.  Due to the
significant size of Embarq, direct comparisons of our results of operations or
subscriber data with prior periods are less meaningful.  For
additional information on our Embarq acquisition, see “Embarq acquisition”
below.



General.    CenturyTel,
Inc., together with its subsidiaries, is an integrated communications company
engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services, including
local and long distance voice, wholesale local network access, high-speed
Internet access, other data services and video services.  We strive to
maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service
offerings to provide a complete offering of integrated communications
services.  We primarily conduct our operations in 33 states located
within the continental United States.



At
December 31, 2009, our incumbent local exchange telephone subsidiaries operated
approximately 7.0 million telephone access lines in 33 states, with over 75% of
these lines located in Florida, North Carolina, Missouri, Nevada, Ohio,
Wisconsin, Texas, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Alabama.  According to
published sources, we are currently the fourth largest local exchange telephone
company in the United States based on the number of access lines
served.



We also
provide fiber transport, competitive local exchange carrier service, security
monitoring, pay telephone and other communications, professional and business
information services in certain local and regional markets.



In recent
years, we have expanded our product offerings to include satellite television
services and wireless broadband services.   For additional
information, see “Operations - Recent Product Developments” below.



For
information on the amount of revenue derived by our various lines of services,
see “Operations - Services” below and Item 7 of this annual report.



Embarq
acquisition.On July 1, 2009, pursuant to the terms and
conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 26, 2008
(the “Merger Agreement”), we acquired Embarq through a merger
transaction.  Embarq, which was spun-off from Sprint Nextel
Corporation in 2006, became a wholly-owned subsidiary of
CenturyTel.  As a result of the transaction, each outstanding share of
Embarq common stock was converted into 1.37 shares of CenturyTel common stock,
with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares.  We also assumed
approximately $5.1 billion of Embarq’s indebtedness upon the consummation of the
transaction.  As of the acquisition date, Embarq served approximately
5.4 million access lines and 1.5 million high-speed Internet customers located
in 18 states.






See Item
1A, Risk Factors, for additional information concerning the acquisition of
Embarq.  Additional information about Embarq is included elsewhere
herein and in documents that it previously filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  See “Where to find additional
information” below.



Other recently completed
acquisitions.    On April 30, 2007, we acquired all
of the outstanding stock of Madison River Communications Corp. (“Madison River”)
for approximately $322 million cash (including the effect of post-closing
adjustments).  In connection with the acquisition, we also paid all of
Madison River’s existing indebtedness (including accrued interest), which
approximated $522 million.  At the time of this acquisition, Madison
River operated approximately 164,000 predominantly rural access lines in four
states.



In June
2005, we acquired fiber assets in 16 metropolitan markets from KMC Telecom
Holdings, Inc. (“KMC”) for approximately $75.5 million cash, which has enabled
us to offer broadband and competitive local exchange services to customers in
these markets.   During 2008, we sold the assets in six of these
markets in two separate transactions.



In June
2003, we purchased a regional communications company providing wholesale data
transport services to other communications carriers over its fiber optic network
located in Missouri, Arkansas, Oklahoma and Kansas.  In a separate
transaction,  in December 2003 we acquired additional fiber transport
assets in Arkansas, Missouri and Illinois.  For additional
information, see “Operations - Services - Fiber Transport and
CLEC.”



We also
acquired approximately 660,000, 490,000 and 650,000 telephone access lines in
transactions completed in 1997, 2000 and 2002, respectively, each of which
substantially expanded our operations.  The 2002 acquisition of
telephone access lines was funded primarily from proceeds received from the sale
of substantially all of our wireless operations in August 2002.



We
continually evaluate the possibility of acquiring additional communications
assets in exchange for cash, securities or other properties, and at any given
time may be engaged in discussions or negotiations regarding additional
acquisitions.  We generally do not announce our acquisitions or
dispositions until we have entered into a preliminary or definitive
agreement.  Although our primary focus will continue to be on
acquiring interests that are proximate to our properties or that serve a
customer base large enough for us to operate efficiently, we may also acquire
other communications interests and these acquisitions could have a material
impact upon us.



Where to find additional
information.We make available all of our filings with
the SEC (including Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K) on our website (www.centurylink.com)
as soon as reasonably practicable after we complete such filings with the
SEC.  These documents may also be obtained from the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.  You
may obtain copies of Embarq’s previous filings with the SEC from our website or
the SEC’s website.






We also
make available on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our corporate
ethics and compliance program and the charters of our audit, compensation, risk
evaluation, and nominating and corporate governance committees.  We
will furnish printed copies of these materials free of charge upon the request
of any shareholder.  If a provision of our corporate ethics and
compliance program is amended, other than by a technical, administrative or
other non-substantive amendment, or a waiver under this program is granted to a
director or executive officer, we will post notice of such amendment or waiver
on our website or disclose the amendment or waiver in a report on Form 8-K filed
with the SEC.  Only our board of directors, or an authorized committee
of the board, may consider a waiver of our corporate ethics and compliance
program for a director or executive officer.



In
connection with filing this annual report, our chief executive officer and chief
financial officer made the certifications regarding our financial disclosures
required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the Act’s related
regulations.  In addition, during 2009 our chief executive officer
certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was unaware of any violation by
us of the New York Stock Exchange’s corporate governance listing
standards.



Industry
information.  Unless otherwise indicated, information contained
in this annual report and other documents filed by us under the federal
securities laws concerning our views and expectations regarding the
communications industry are based on estimates made by us using data from
industry sources, and on assumptions made by us based on our management’s
knowledge and experience in the markets in which we operate and the
communications industry generally.  We believe these estimates and
assumptions are accurate as of the date made; however, this information may
prove to be inaccurate because it cannot always be verified with
certainty.  You should be aware that we have not independently
verified data from industry or other third-party sources and cannot guarantee
its accuracy or completeness.  Our estimates and assumptions involve
risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors,
including those discussed in Item 1A of this annual report.



Other.  As of
December 31, 2009, we had approximately 20,200 employees, of which approximately
6,700 were members of 46 different bargaining units represented by the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and the Communications Workers
of America.   We believe that relations with our employees
continue to be generally good.  Over the last several years, we
announced reductions of our workforce primarily due to (i) progress made on our
integration efforts from recent acquisitions (including the recently completed
Embarq acquisition); (ii) increased competitive pressures and the loss of access
lines over the last several years, and (iii) the elimination of certain customer
service personnel due to reduced call volumes.






We were
incorporated under Louisiana law in 1968 to serve as a holding company for
several telephone companies acquired over the previous 15 to 20 years. Our
principal executive offices are located at 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe,
Louisiana 71203 and our telephone number is (318) 388-9000.





OPERATIONSAccording
to published sources, our acquisition of Embarq on July 1, 2009 positioned us as
the fourth largest local exchange telephone company in the United States, based
on the approximately 7.0 million access lines we served at December 31, 2009,
all of which are digitally switched.  “Access lines” are telephone
lines that connect homes or businesses to the public switched telephone
network.Before
the Embarq acquisition, (i) CenturyTel provided local exchange telephone
services to predominantly rural areas and small to mid-size cities in 25 states
and (ii) Embarq provided local exchange telephone services to a wide variety of
markets in 18 states, including Las Vegas, Nevada, and surrounding areas of
Orlando, Florida as well as the suburbs of several other large U.S.
cities.  At the time of the acquisition, the average population
density of CenturyTel’s and Embarq’s local exchange markets was 25 and 94
persons per square mile, respectively.  Although the services provided
by each company prior to the acquisition were substantially similar, the merger
resulted in several important changes to our operations,
including:



●providing
      services to an expanded number of densely-populated markets, which tend to
      afford consumers access to a greater range of competitive communications
      products than less dense markets and exposes the incumbent telephone
      service provider to higher levels of service
  terminations;



●reducing
      the percentage of our total revenue derived from governmental support
      programs, which typically focus on disbursing payments to companies
      operating in less densely populated
areas;



●structuring
      our operations into five newly-configured operating regions in order to
      provide day-to-day decision making at the regional level as opposed to
      Embarq’s prior operating model which operated under a more centralized
      structure; and



●offering certain
      services, such as inmate payphone services, that CenturyTel did not
      historically provide.

The
following table lists additional information (rounded to the nearest thousand
lines) regarding our access lines as of (i) December 31, 2009, which reflects
the Embarq acquisition, and (ii) December 31, 2008, which pre-dates the Embarq
acquisition.








December
      31, 2009December
      31, 2008 (1)Number
      ofPercent
      ofNumber
      ofPercent
      ofStateaccess linesaccess linesaccess linesaccess linesFlorida1,352,00019%--%North
      Carolina1,071,0001513,000*Missouri548,0008392,00019Nevada523,0007-*Ohio388,000559,0003Wisconsin
      (2)343,0005368,00018Texas303,000432,0002Pennsylvania271,0004--Virginia260,0004--Alabama254,0004274,00013Washington200,0003147,0007Indiana186,00034,000*Arkansas182,0003199,00010Tennessee176,000222,0001New
      Jersey145,0002--Minnesota144,000225,0001Oregon109,000262,0003All other states (3)584,0008428,000217,039,000100%2,025,000100%

*        Represents less than 1% of access
lines.

(1)     Access line counts for 2008 reflect line count
methodology adjustments to standardize legacy CenturyTel and Embarq line counts.

(2)     As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately
45,000 and 48,000, respectively, of these lines were owned and operated by our
89%-owned affiliate.(3)     Includes all of the remaining 16 states in
which we operate, each of which has less than 100,000 access lines served.The
following table summarizes certain information related to our customer base,
operating revenues and capital expenditures for the past five
years.  The 2009 information includes the Embarq operations we
acquired on July 1, 2009.  The 2009, 2008 and 2007 information
includes the Madison River properties we acquired on April 30,
2007.  All periods reflect access line count methodology adjustments
to standardize legacy CenturyTel and Embarq line counts.Year
      ended or as of December 31,20092008200720062005(Dollars
      in thousands)Access
      lines7,039,0002,025,0002,135,0002,094,0002,214,000%
      Residential68%73737475%
      Business32%27272625Internet
      customers2,259,000683,000623,000459,000357,000%
      High-speed Internet service99%94898070%
      Dial-up service1%6112030Operating
      revenues$4,974,2392,599,7472,656,2412,447,7302,479,252Capital
      expenditures$754,544286,817326,045314,071414,872



As
discussed further below, during the last several years (exclusive of
acquisitions and certain non-recurring favorable adjustments), we have
experienced revenue declines in our voice and network access revenues primarily
due to declines in access lines, intrastate access rates, minutes of use, and
federal support fund payments.  To mitigate these declines, we plan
to, among other things, (i) promote long-term relationships with our customers
through bundling of integrated services, (ii) provide new services, such as
video and wireless broadband, and other additional services that may become
available in the future due to advances in technology, wireless spectrum sales
by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) or improvements in our
infrastructure, (iii) provide our broadband and premium services to a higher
percentage of our customers, (iv) pursue acquisitions of additional
communications properties if available at attractive prices, (v) increase usage
of our networks and (vi) market our products to new customers.  See
“Services” and “Regulation and Competition” for additional
information.






Services



We derive
revenue from providing (i) local exchange and long distance voice telephone
services, (ii) wholesale local network access services, (iii) data services,
including high-speed Internet services, as well as special access and private
line services, (iv) fiber transport, competitive local exchange and security
monitoring services and (v) other related services. The following table reflects
the percentage of operating revenues derived from each of
these services:





200920082007Voice36.7%33.633.5Network
      access25.531.635.4Data24.220.217.4Fiber
      transport and CLEC3.56.26.0Other10.18.47.7100.0%100.0100.0





Voice.We offer
local calling service to residential and business customers within our local
service areas, generally for a fixed monthly charge.  While we have
achieved significant pricing deregulation over time, the maximum amount that we
can charge a customer for local calling services is still largely governed by
state and federal regulatory authorities and by our competitors.  We
offer a number of enhanced voice services (such as call forwarding, caller
identification, conference calling, voicemail, selective call ringing and call
waiting) to our local exchange customers for an additional monthly
fee.  At December 31, 2009, over 65% of both our business and
residential customers subscribed to one or more enhanced services.  We
also offer long distance services to our customers based on either usage or
pursuant to flat-rate calling plans.  Several Embarq markets currently
offer long distance voice services through a wholesale arrangement with Sprint
Nextel.  We expect to transition such services to our owned networks
during the next few years.  We anticipate that most of our long
distance service will continue to be provided as part of an integrated bundle
with our other service offerings, including our local exchange telephone service
offering.



Total
access lines declined 380,000 during 2009 (excluding access lines we acquired
from Embarq on July 1, 2009 but including access lines lost in Embarq’s markets
following such acquisition) compared to a decline of 136,800 during
2008.  We believe these declines in the number of access lines were
primarily due to the displacement of traditional wireline telephone services by
other competitive services and recent economic conditions.  Over the
last few years, our recently-acquired Embarq markets have experienced higher
rates of access line losses than our incumbent markets due principally to such
markets being more densely-populated and competitive.  Our legacy
CenturyTel access lines declined 6.6% in 2009 and 5.9% in 2008 while the legacy
Embarq access lines declined 9.5% in 2009 and 9.7% in 2008.  Based on
our current retention initiatives, we estimate that our combined access line
loss will be between 7.5% and 8.5% in 2010.9



Network access.We
derive our network access revenues primarily from (i) providing wholesale
services to various carriers and customers in connection with the use of our
facilities to originate and terminate their interstate and intrastate voice
transmissions; (ii) receiving universal support funds which allows us to recover
a portion of our costs under federal and state cost recovery mechanisms (see
“Regulation and Competition Relating to Incumbent Local Exchange Operations”
below), (iii) receiving reciprocal compensation from competitive local exchange
carriers (“CLECs”) and wireless service providers for terminating their calls on
our networks and (iv) offering certain network facilities and related services
to CLECs.  Our revenues for switched access services depend primarily
on the level of call volumes.



Substantially
all of our interstate network access revenues are based on tariffed access
charges prescribed by the FCC.  Certain of our intrastate network
access revenues are derived through access charges that we bill to intrastate
long distance carriers and other LEC customers. Such intrastate network access
charges are based on tariffed access charges, which are subject to state
regulatory commission approval. Additionally, certain of our intrastate network
access revenues, along with intrastate and intra-LATA (Local Access and
Transport Areas) long distance revenues, are derived through revenue sharing
arrangements with other LECs.



Pursuant
to the Telecommunications Act of 1996, we offer certain network facilities to
CLEC’s on a resale or unbundled basis and allow them to collocate certain of
their equipment in our central offices.  The FCC sets general
guidelines for pricing of resale, unbundled network elements and collocation
agreements, while the state regulatory authorities approve the actual prices
charged.



Data.We
deriveour data
revenues primarily from monthly recurring charges for providing high-speed
Internet access services and data transmission services over special circuits
and private lines.   CenturyTel began offering traditional
dial-up Internet access services to its telephone customers in
1995.  In late 1999, CenturyTel began offering high-speed Internet
access services, a broadband data service.  At December 31, 2009,
approximately 89% of our access lines were broadband-enabled and we provided
high-speed Internet access services to over 2.2 million
customers.  During 2009, we added approximately 1.591 million
high-speed Internet customers, which includes approximately 1.465 million we
acquired in connection with our acquisition of Embarq.



We offer
a range of data services to businesses, long distance carriers, wireless
carriers and CLECs.  Our most significant data service is special
access, which consists of providing dedicated circuits connecting other
carriers’ networks to their customers’ locations, wireless carriers’ cell towers
to mobile switching centers or business customers to our
network.  Although the traffic handled through special access
facilities may include voice as well as data, we report revenues associated with
special access as data revenue.








Fiber transport and
CLEC.  Our fiber transport and CLEC revenues include revenues
from our fiber transport, competitive local exchange carrier and security
monitoring businesses.



In late
2000, CenturyTel began offering competitive local exchange telephone services as
part of a bundled service offering to small to medium-sized businesses in Monroe
and Shreveport, Louisiana.  In February 2002, we purchased the fiber
network and customer base of KMC’s operations in Monroe and Shreveport,
Louisiana and in June 2005, we purchased the fiber assets in 16 metropolitan
markets from KMC.  As part of our plan to focus our efforts on the
CLEC markets with the most promise, in mid-2008 we sold the assets in six of our
CLEC markets to other communications companies in two separate
transactions.  At December 31, 2009, our competitive local exchange
operations provided service over 800 miles of fiber.



Under the
name “LightCore”, we sell fiber capacity to other carriers and businesses over a
network that encompassed, at December 31, 2009, nearly 10,300 miles of fiber in
the central United States.  CenturyTel began its fiber transport
business during 2001, when we began selling capacity over a 700-mile fiber optic
ring that we constructed in southern and central Michigan.  In June
2003, we acquired the assets of Digital Teleport, Inc., a regional
communications company providing wholesale data transport services to other
communications carriers over its fiber optic network located in Missouri,
Arkansas, Oklahoma and Kansas.  We have used the network to sell
services to new and existing customers and to reduce our reliance on third party
transport providers.  In addition, in December 2003, we acquired
additional fiber transport assets in Arkansas, Missouri and Illinois from Level
3 Communications, Inc. to provide services similar to those described
above.



In
addition to the above-described fiber network, in connection with our 2007
acquisition of Madison River, we acquired ownership in a 2,100 route mile fiber
network located in six states which has enabled us to expand our fiber network
business and further reduce our reliance on third-party transport
providers.



We offer
24-hour security and fire monitoring services to approximately 10,900
customers in select markets in Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Texas and
Ohio.



Other.We derive
our “other revenues” principally by (i) leasing, selling, installing and
maintaining customer premise telecommunications equipment and wiring to our
business customers, (ii) providing payphone services primarily within our local
service territories and at various state and county correctional facilities
around the country, (iii) participating in the publication of local telephone
directories, which allows us to share in revenues generated by the sale of
yellow page and related advertising to businesses, (iv) providing network
database services and (v) offering our new services described below under the
heading “Recent Product Developments”.  We also provide printing,
direct mail services and cable television services.






During
2008, we paid an aggregate of approximately $149 million for 69 licenses in the
FCC’s auction of 700 megahertz (“MHz”) wireless spectrum.  We expect
to complete our planning regarding the use of this spectrum in the first half of
2010 and to begin our trial phase in late 2010 or early
2011.  Based on our planning, we are considering developing wireless
voice and data service capabilities based on equipment using LTE (Long-Term
Evolution) technology.  Given that simple data devices are not expected to
be commercially available until later this year and more complex, integrated
voice and data devices such as smartphones are not expected to be available
until 2012, we do not expect to deploy network equipment, other than trial
equipment, in 2010.



From time
to time, we also make investments in other communications
companies.



For
further information on regulatory, technological and competitive changes that
could impact our revenues, see “Regulation and Competition” under this Item 1
below and “Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements” under Item 1A
below.  For more information on the financial contributions of our
various services, see Item 7 of this annual report.



Recent
Product Developments



Since
2005, CenturyTel, in conjunction with DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”), has
offered satellite television service to households in substantially all of its
local exchange service areas.  Effective January 1, 2007, we changed
our relationship with DISH from a revenue sharing arrangement to an agency
relationship.  Embarq also has an existing sales agency relationship
with DirecTV for certain business customers and with DISH for residential
customers.  In late 2005, we initiated our switched digital television
service in the LaCrosse, Wisconsin market and, in October 2007, we commenced a
second switched digital video service offering in our Columbia, Missouri
market.  We also recently launched switched digital video service in
Jefferson City, Missouri, a legacy Embarq market.



We also
offer wireless broadband Internet services in select locations in certain
markets in 14 states.



Federal
Financing Programs



Some of
our telephone subsidiaries receive long-term financing from the Rural Utilities
Service (“RUS”), a federal agency that has historically provided long-term
financing to telephone companies at relatively attractive interest
rates.  For additional information regarding our financing, see our
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 herein.










Sales
and Marketing



Subsequent
to our acquisition of Embarq on July 1, 2009, we changed our trade name to
“CenturyLink” and have used this name in our recent marketing and advertising
efforts.  We plan to change the legal name of the corporation to
“CenturyLink, Inc.” in May 2010 upon approval of the name change by our
shareholders.  In addition, we currently sell fiber capacity on our
networks under the brand name “LightCore” and our satellite television service
is offered on a co-branded basis under the “DISH Network” or “DirecTV”
name.  We expect to discontinue the LightCore brand name in the near future
and transition that brand name to CenturyLink.



We
maintain local offices in most of the larger population centers within our
service territories.  These offices provide sales and customer support
services in the community.  We also rely on our call center personnel
to promote sales of services that meet the needs of our
customers.  Our strategy is to enhance our communications services by
offering comprehensive bundling of services and deploying new technologies to
build upon the strong reputation we enjoy in our markets and to further enhance
customer loyalty.



Our
consumer marketing approach emphasizes customer-oriented sales, marketing and
service with a local presence.  We market our products and services
primarily through direct sales representatives, local retail stores,
telemarketing and third parties.  We support our distribution with
direct mail, bill inserts, newspaper advertising, website promotions, public
relations activities and sponsorship of community events.  Our
business marketing approach includes a commitment to deliver communications
solutions that meet existing and future business customer needs through bundles
of services and integrated service offerings, focusing on end-to-end customers’
communications solutions from small businesses to large enterprise
customers.



Network
Architecture



Our local
exchange carrier networks consist of central office hosts and remote sites, all
with advanced digital switches (primarily manufactured by Nortel and Siemens)
and operating with licensed software.  Our outside plant consists of
transport and distribution delivery networks connecting each of our host central
offices to our remote central offices, and ultimately to our
customers.  As of December 31, 2009, we maintained over 594,000 miles
of copper plant and approximately 67,000 miles of fiber optic plant in our local
exchange networks.  Our fiber optic cable is the primary transport
technology between our host and remote central offices and interconnection
points with other incumbent carriers.  Most of our long distance
service is provided through reselling arrangements with other long distance
carriers, with the balance being provided directly through CenturyTel’s own
switches and network equipment.  We are currently transitioning
Embarq’s legacy long distance traffic to our owned networks.








In our
markets, high-speed Internet-enabled technologies are being deployed to provide
significant broadband capacity to our customers.  We continue to
remove network impediments to offer high-speed Internet service to more
customers.  At the end of 2009, approximately 89% of our access lines
were capable of providing high-speed Internet service to our
customers.



We also
maintain networks in connection with providing fiber transport and CLEC
services.  For additional information on these networks, see “Services
- - Fiber Transport and CLEC.”



Rapid and
significant changes in technology are expected in the communications
industry.  Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to
anticipate and adapt to technological changes.



Regulation
and Competition Relating to Incumbent Local Exchange Operations



Traditionally,
LECs operated as regulated monopolies having the exclusive right and
responsibility to provide local telephone services in their franchised service
territories.  (These LECs are sometimes referred to below as
“incumbent LECs” or “ILECs”).  Consequently, most of our intrastate
telephone operations have been regulated extensively by various state regulatory
agencies (generally called public service commissions or public utility
commissions) and our interstate operations have been regulated by the FCC under
the Communications Act of 1934.  As we discuss in greater detail
below, passage of the 1996 Act, coupled with state legislative and regulatory
initiatives and technological changes, fundamentally altered the telephone
industry by generally reducing the regulation of ILECs and creating a
substantial increase in the number of competitors. We anticipate that these
trends toward reduced regulation and increased competition will
continue.



The
following description discusses some of the major industry regulations that
affect our traditional telephone operations, but numerous other regulations not
discussed below could also impact us.  Some legislation and
regulations are currently the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative
hearings and administrative proceedings which could substantially change the
manner in which the communications industry operates.  Neither the
outcome of these proceedings, nor their potential impact on us, can be predicted
at this time.  The impact of regulatory changes in the communications
industry could have a substantial impact on our operations.  See Item
1A of this annual report below.



State
regulation.  The local service rates and intrastate access
charges of substantially all of our telephone subsidiaries are regulated by
state regulatory commissions which typically have the power to grant and revoke
certifications authorizing companies to provide communications
services.  State commissions traditionally regulated pricing through
“rate of return” regulation that focused on authorized levels of earnings by
LECs.  Only a few states (representing a small portion of our access
lines) continue to regulate us in this manner.  In recent years, state
legislatures and regulatory commissions in most of the 33 states in which our
telephone subsidiaries operate have either reduced the regulation of ILECs or
have announced their intention to do so, and we expect this trend will
continue.  In most of our states, we are generally regulated under
various forms of alternative regulation that typically limit our ability to
increase rates for local services, but relieve us from the requirement to meet
certain earnings tests.  Moreover, in a few states, we have recently
gained pricing freedom for the majority of retail services except for the most
basic of services, such as stand alone basic residential service.
 Additionally, in most of the states in which we operate, we have gained
pricing flexibility for certain enhanced calling services, such as caller
identification, and for bundled services that include local voice
service.








For a
discussion of legislative, regulatory and technological changes that have
introduced competition into the local exchange industry, see “Developments
Affecting Competition.”



As an
ILEC, we generally face carrier of last resort obligations which include an
ongoing requirement to provide service to all prospective and current customers
in our service territories who request service and are willing to pay rates
prescribed in our tariffs.  In competitively-bid situations, such as
newly constructed housing developments or multi-tenant dwellings, this may
constitute a competitive disadvantage to us if competitors can choose to
exclusively tie service to homeowners’ association fees or choose not to provide
service to customers who are poor credit risks or whom they believe would be
uneconomic to serve.  Strict adherence to carrier of last resort
requirements may force us to construct facilities with a low likelihood of
positive economic return. A few of our states provide relief from such
obligations under certain circumstances, relieving us of the duty to build
facilities, typically in developments served by alternative providers with
exclusive service arrangements. Additionally, we are seeking regulatory approval
in targeted circumstances to deploy service using less costly alternative
technologies, such as fixed wireless, and seeking to share the cost of
constructing networks with those customers. Currently, in certain areas our
costs to build and maintain network infrastructure are partially offset by
payments from universal service programs.



At the
state level, we are responding to carrier complaints, legislation or generic
investigations regarding our intrastate switched access rate levels in
Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Wisconsin, and
Virginia. Although outcomes cannot be determined at this time, we believe our
intrastate switched access rate levels are appropriate and we plan to vigorously
defend them. If we are required to reduce our intrastate switched access rates
as a result of any of these complaints, we will seek to recover displaced
switched access revenues from state universal service funds or other services;
however, the amount of such recovery, if any, is not assured.



Under
state law, our telephone operating subsidiaries are typically governed by laws
and regulations that (i) regulate the purchase and sale of LECs, (ii) prescribe
depreciation rates and certain accounting procedures, (iii) require LECs to
provide service under publicly-filed tariffs setting forth the terms, conditions
and prices of regulated services, (iv) limit LECs’ ability to borrow and
establish asset liens and (v) impose various other service
standards.



Federal regulation. Our
telephone subsidiaries are required to comply with the Communications Act of
1934, which requires us to offer services at just and reasonable rates and on
non-discriminatory terms, as well as the 1996 Act, which amended the
Communications Act to promote competition.






The FCC
regulates interstate services provided by our telephone subsidiaries primarily
by regulating the interstate access charges that we bill to long distance
companies and other communications companies for use of our network in
connection with the origination and termination of interstate voice and data
transmissions. Additionally, the FCC has prescribed certain rules and
regulations for telephone companies, including a uniform system of accounts and
rules regarding the separation of costs between jurisdictions and, ultimately,
between interstate services.  In addition, the FCC has responsibility
for maintaining and administering the federal Universal Service
Fund.  LECs must obtain FCC approval to use certain radio frequencies,
or to transfer control of any such licenses.  The FCC retains the
right to revoke these licenses if a carrier materially violates relevant legal
requirements.



The FCC
requires price-cap regulation of interstate access rates for the Regional Bell
Operating Companies, and permits it for all other LECs. Under price-cap
regulation, limits imposed on a company’s interstate rates are adjusted
periodically to reflect inflation, productivity improvement and changes in
certain non-controllable costs.  On July 1, 2009, we converted
substantially all of our remaining rate-of-return study areas to price cap
regulation.  In addition, all of the properties we acquired from
Embarq operate under price cap regulation.



The FCC
has a proceeding underway that would review the state of the special access
market and current pricing flexibility and price cap policies applicable to
ILECs’ marketing of special access services.  The FCC is also
reviewing requests by some other carriers to order reductions in some or all
ILECs’ rates for special access services.  It is uncertain whether or
how the FCC might order changes in how special access services are regulated, or
in the rates ILECs are able to charge for them.  If the FCC were to
adopt significant changes in regulations affecting special access services, the
proceeding could have a significant impact on our provision and pricing of
special access services.



Beginning
in 2003, the FCC initiated broad intercarrier compensation proceedings designed
to create a uniform mechanism to be used by the entire telecommunications
industry for payments between carriers originating, terminating, or transiting
telecommunications traffic.  In connection therewith, the FCC has
received intercarrier compensation proposals from several industry groups, and
solicited public comments on a variety of topics related to access charges and
intercarrier compensation.  Broad industry negotiations have taken
place with the goal of developing a consensus plan that addresses the concerns
of carriers from all industry segments.  The ultimate outcome of the
FCC’s intercarrier compensation proceedings could change the way we receive
compensation from, and remit compensation to, other carriers, our end user
customers and the federal Universal Service Fund (the “USF”).



The
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Recovery Act”) was signed
into law in February 2009.  As part of the Recovery Act, the FCC is
required to present a National Broadband Plan (the “Plan”) to Congress. We
expect issues such as universal service and intercarrier compensation reform
will be incorporated into the Plan. The FCC is expected to deliver a Plan
recommendation to Congress by the end of the first quarter of
2010.  We anticipate that the FCC’s Plan will propose significant
changes while also seeking additional comment on a variety of issues ranging
from universal service funding for broadband to open network requirements for
providers.  Until the FCC’s proceedings conclude and the changes, if
any, to the existing rules, including rules applicable to intercarrier
compensation and USF, are established, we cannot estimate the impact these
proceedings will have on our results of operations.   The impact
of regulatory change, including those involving intercarrier compensation and
USF, could have a substantial impact on our operations.








The
Recovery Act also includes certain broadband initiatives that are intended to
accelerate broadband deployment across the United States. The Recovery Act
approved $7.2 billion in funding for broadband stimulus projects across the
United States to be administered by two governmental agencies.  The
programs implemented by the two agencies are expected to provide grants and
loans to applicants for construction of certain broadband infrastructure,
provision of certain broadband services, and support of certain broadband
adoption initiatives.  This program has attracted a wide range of
applicants including states, municipalities, start-up companies and
consortiums.  To date we have not applied for funding under the
Recovery Act programs; however, we continue to evaluate all opportunities for
our business.  The participation of other parties could lead to some
overbuilding of our networks by competitors in selected areas which may increase
our marketing costs and decrease our revenues in those areas.  We
cannot estimate the impact these programs may have on our
operations.



We have
been working with other midsize carriers to develop proposals that would advance
universal broadband deployment while reforming intercarrier compensation and
universal service funding at the same time.  In December 2009, we and
other midsize carriers submitted a proposal to the FCC designed to significantly
expand high-speed Internet access in rural America, in support of the FCC’s
broadband deployment goals, while paving the way for more fundamental reforms in
the future.  The proposal includes reducing terminating switched
access and reciprocal compensation rates while eliminating loopholes and
regulatory arbitrage opportunities.  Under this plan, a significant
portion of displaced revenue would be replaced with explicit, predictable
support funding to increase carriers’ ability to attract private investment
capital needed for increased broadband deployment.  We plan to
continue to work with other like-minded carriers to advocate for regulatory
outcomes that promote broadband deployment while also reforming intercarrier
compensation and universal service fund support.  We cannot predict
what part, if any, of such proposals and advocacy will ultimately be
adopted.



Our
operations and those of all communications carriers also may be impacted by
legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations on
us.  The most likely areas of impact include regulations or laws
related to bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery
requirements, minimizing environmental impacts, enhancing privacy, or addressing
other issues that impact our business, including the Communications Assistance
for Law Enforcement Act, and laws governing local number portability and
customer proprietary network information requirements.  These laws and
regulations may cause us to incur additional costs and could impact our ability
to compete effectively.








Universal service support funds,
revenue sharing arrangements and related matters. A significant number of
our telephone subsidiaries recover a portion of their costs from the federal USF
and from similar state “universal support” mechanisms, which receive their
funding from fees charged to interexchange carriers and
LECs.  Disbursements from these programs traditionally have focused
principally on allowing LECs serving small communities and rural areas to
provide communications services on terms and at prices reasonably comparable to
those available in urban areas.  However, use of universal service
funding for other social policy goals continues to grow and to exert pressure on
the size of the fund and the contribution rate.



The table
below sets forth the amounts received by our telephone subsidiaries in 2009 and
2008 from federal and state universal service programs.  We anticipate
that the percentage of our total 2010 operating revenues attributable to these
programs will be lower than the percentages reflected below since it will
reflect a full year of the combined operations of CenturyTel and Embarq (due to
Embarq having historically received a substantially lower percentage of its
revenues from these programs than has CenturyTel).



Year
      ended December 31,20092008%
      of Total%
      of Total20092008AmountOperatingAmountOperatingUniversalService ProgramReceivedRevenuesReceivedRevenues(amounts
      in millions)USF
      High Cost Loop Program$145.32.9%$151.75.8%Other
      Federal Programs163.03.3%128.55.0%Total Federal Receipts308.36.2%280.210.8%State
      Programs76.61.5%39.71.5%TOTAL$384.97.7%$319.912.3%



A
significant portion of our payments have varied over time based on our average
cost to serve customers compared to national cost averages.  Under the
USF High Cost Loop program, which is the USF’s principal program, our payments
from the USF will decrease if national average costs per loop increase at a rate
greater than our average cost per loop.  Increases in the nationwide
average cost per loop factor used to allocate funds among all USF recipients
caused our revenues from the USF High Cost Loop program (exclusive of USF
revenues recognized during the last half of 2009 in connection with our Embarq
acquisition) to decrease in 2009 when compared to 2008 payments to the same
subsidiaries.  We anticipate that this trend will continue in
2010.  See Item 7 of Part II of this annual report for more
information.



Federal
USF programs have undergone substantial changes since 1997, and are expected to
experience more changes in the coming years.  As mandated by the 1996
Act, in May 2001 the FCC modified its existing universal service support
mechanism for rural telephone companies by adopting an interim mechanism for a
five-year period based on embedded, or historical, costs that provide relatively
predictable levels of support to many LECs, including substantially all of our
LECs.   In May 2006, the FCC extended this interim mechanism
until such time that new high-cost support rules are adopted for rural telephone
companies.








Universal
service funds available to ILECs are currently available to local competitors
that (i) certify they will serve all customers in a study area, (ii) offer nine
core services, and (iii) qualify as an “eligible telecommunications
carrier.”  Wireless and other competitive service providers continue
to seek to qualify to receive USF funds.  This trend, coupled with
changes in usage of telecommunications services, has placed stress on the
funding mechanism of the USF, which is subject to annual caps on
disbursements.  As a result of these developments, there is no
assurance that sufficient funds will be available to provide funding to all
eligible service providers.



Over the
past few years, each of the FCC, Universal Service Administrative Company and
certain Congressional committees has initiated wide-ranging reviews of the
administration of the federal USF.  As part of this process, we, along
with a number of other USF recipients, have undergone a number of USF audits and
have also received requests for information from the FCC’s Office of Inspector
General (“OIG”) and Congressional committees.  In addition, in July
2008 we received a subpoena from the OIG requesting a broad range of information
regarding our depreciation rates and methodologies since 2000, and in July 2009
we received a second subpoena requesting information about our participation in
the E-rate program for Wisconsin schools and libraries since
2004.  The OIG has not identified to us any specific issues with
respect to our participation in the USF program and none of the audits completed
to date has identified any material issues regarding our participation in the
USF program.  While we believe our participation is in compliance with
FCC rules and in accordance with accepted industry practices, we cannot predict
with certainty the timing or outcome of these various reviews.  We
have complied with and are continuing to respond to all requests for
information.



In late
2002, the FCC requested that the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service
(“FSJB”) review various FCC rules governing high cost universal service,
including rules regarding eligibility to receive payments in markets served by
LECs and competitive carriers.   Since then, the FSJB recommended
a comprehensive general review of the high-cost support mechanisms for rural and
non-rural carriers and requested comments on the FCC’s current rules for the
provision of high-cost support for rural companies, including comments on
whether eligibility requirements should be amended in a manner that would
adversely affect larger rural LECs such as us.



In 2004,
the FCC mandated changes in the administration of the universal service programs
that temporarily suspended the disbursement of funds under the USF’s E-rate
program (for service to Schools and Libraries), and, more significantly, created
questions that these administrative changes could similarly delay the
disbursement of funds to ILECs from the Universal Service High Cost Loop support
program.  Congress has passed bills in recent years granting
successive one-year exemptions from the federal law that impacted the E-rate
program, including a bill extending the exemption through September 30,
2010.  Although we expect funding from this program to continue, we
cannot assure you that the lack of a definitive resolution of this issue will
not delay or impede the disbursement of funds in the future.




Several
states in which we operate have established their own universal service
programs.  In 2009, we received support totaling approximately $76.6
million from state universal service programs in 13 states, with the largest
amounts received in Texas, Louisiana and Kansas.  Several states are
currently reviewing their state universal service fund programs, which could
change the support we receive.



Some of
our telephone subsidiaries operate in states where traditional cost recovery
mechanisms, including rate structures, are under evaluation or have been
modified. See “ State Regulation.”  There can be no assurance that
these states will continue to provide for cost recovery at current
levels.



Developments affecting
competition.  Over the past decade, fundamental technological,
regulatory and legislative changes have significantly impacted the
communications industry, and we expect these changes will
continue.  Primarily as a result of regulatory and technological
changes, competition has been introduced and encouraged in each sector of the
communications industry in recent years.  As a result, we increasingly
face competition from other communication service providers, as further
described below.



Wireless
telephone services increasingly constitute a significant source of competition
with ILEC services, especially since wireless carriers have begun to compete
effectively on the basis of price with more traditional telephone
services.  As a result, some customers have chosen to completely
forego use of traditional wireline phone service and instead rely solely on
wireless service for voice services.  This trend is more pronounced
among residential customers, which comprise 68% of our access line
customers.  We anticipate this trend will continue, particularly if
wireless service providers continue to expand their coverage areas, reduce their
rates, improve the quality of their services, and offer enhanced new
services.  A vast majority of our access line customers are currently
capable of receiving wireless services from at least one competitive service
provider.  Technological and regulatory developments in wireless
services, personal communications services, digital microwave, satellite,
coaxial cable, fiber optics, local multipoint distribution services, WiFi, and
other wired and wireless technologies are expected to further permit the
development of alternatives to traditional landline
services.  Moreover, the growing prevalence of electronic mail, text
messaging, and similar digital communications continues to reduce the demand for
traditional landline voice services.






As a
result of these regulatory, consumer and technological developments, ILECs also
face competition from CLECs, particularly in densely populated
areas.  CLECs provide competing services through reselling the ILECs’
local services, through use of the ILECs’ unbundled network elements or through
their own facilities.  The number of companies which have requested
authorization to provide local exchange service in our service areas has
increased in recent years, particularly in Embarq’s legacy
markets.  We anticipate that similar action may be taken by other
competitors in the future, especially if all forms of federal support available
to ILECs continue to remain available to these competitors.



As noted
above, wireless and other competitive services providers have been increasingly
aggressive in seeking and obtaining USF support funds.  This support
is likely to encourage additional competitors to enter our high-cost service
areas.



Technological
developments have led to the development of new services that compete with
traditional ILEC services.  Technological improvements have enabled
cable television companies to provide traditional circuit-switched telephone
service over their cable networks, and several national cable companies have
aggressively pursued this opportunity.  As of December 31, 2009, we
believe that approximately 60% of our access lines faced competition from cable
voice offerings.  Additionally, several large electric utilities have
announced plans to offer communications services that compete with some
ILECs.








Our
industry has witnessed an increase in disputes about the intercarrier
compensation rules applicable to various categories of traffic exchanged between
carriers.  These disputes are subject to review by the FCC, state
commissions and federal courts.  Rulings in such proceedings, whether
or not we are a party, may influence our exposure to disputes about our
wholesale charges or to claims against us for prior wholesale
billings.  We cannot assure you that regulatory or court rulings on
such issues will not have a material adverse effect on us or our
industry.



Similar
to us, many cable, technology or other communications companies that previously
offered a limited range of services are now offering diversified bundles of
services, either through their own networks, reselling arrangements or joint
ventures.  As such, a growing number of companies are competing to
serve the communications needs of the same customer
base.   Several of these companies started offering full service
bundles before us, which could give them an advantage in building customer
loyalty.  Such activities will continue to place downward pressure on
the demand for our access lines and/or pricing of our services.



In
addition to facing direct competition from those providers described above,
ILECs increasingly face competition from alternate communication systems
constructed by long distance carriers, large customers or alternative access
vendors.  These systems, which have become more prevalent as a result
of the 1996 Act, are capable of originating or terminating calls without use of
the ILECs’ networks or switching services.  Other potential sources of
competition include non-carrier systems that are capable of bypassing ILECs’
local networks, either partially or completely, through various means, including
the provision of special access or independent switching services and the
concentration of telecommunications traffic on a few of the ILECs’ access
lines.  We anticipate that all these trends will continue and lead to
decreased use of our networks.



Significant
competitive factors in the local telephone industry include pricing, packaging
of services and features, quality and convenience of service and meeting
customer needs such as simplified billing and timely response to service
calls.



As the
telephone industry increasingly experiences competition, the size and resources
of each respective competitor may increasingly influence its
prospects.  Some companies currently providing or planning to provide
competitive communication services have substantially greater financial and
marketing resources than we do or own larger or more diverse networks than
ours.  In addition, many of them are not subject to the same
regulatory constraints we are.  Consequently, some competitors may be
able to charge lower prices for their products and services, develop and expand
their communications and network infrastructure more quickly, adapt more swiftly
to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and devote
greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than
we can.






Competition
can harm us by causing us to lose customers, or by causing us to lower prices or
increase our capital or operating expenses to retain
customers.  Competing communications services, such as wireless, VoIP,
electronic mail, text messaging and optional calling services, can also reduce
usage of our network and thereby decrease our network access
revenues.  Competition can also cause customers to reduce either usage
of our services or switch to less profitable services, and could impede our
ability to diversify into new lines of business dominated by incumbent
providers.



We
anticipate that the traditional operations of LECs will continue to be impacted
by changes in regulation, technology, and consumer preferences affecting the
ability of LECs to attract and retain customers and the capability of wireless
companies, CLECs, cable television companies, VoIP providers, electric utilities
and others to provide competitive LEC services. Competition relating to
traditional LEC services has thus far affected large urban areas to a greater
extent than less dense areas.



Exclusive
of acquisitions, we expect our operating revenues in 2010 to decline as we
continue to experience downward pressure primarily due to continued access line
losses, reduced universal service funding and lower network access
revenues.   We expect such declines to be partially offset
primarily due to increased demand for our high-speed Internet service
offering.





Regulation
and Competition Relating to Other Operations



Long Distance
Operations.  We offer intra-LATA, intrastate and interstate
long distance services.  State public service commissions generally
regulate intra-LATA toll calls within the same LATA and inter-LATA toll calls
between different LATAs located in the same state.  Federal regulators
have jurisdiction over interstate toll calls.  Recent state regulatory
changes have increased competition to provide intra-LATA toll services in our
local exchange markets.  Competition for intrastate and interstate
long distance services has been intense for several years, and focuses primarily
on price and pricing plans, and secondarily on customer service, reliability and
communications quality.  Traditionally, our principal competitors for
providing long distance services were large national carriers, regional phone
companies and dial-around resellers.  Increasingly, however, we have
experienced competition from newer sources, including wireless companies
offering attractively-priced calling plans.  Technological
substitutions, including VoIP, text messaging and electronic mail, have
further reduced demand for traditional long distance services.  To
counter such competition, we now offer unlimited long distance calling
plans.






Data
Operations.  In connection with our data business, we face
competition from Internet service providers, satellite companies and cable
companies which use wired or wireless technologies to offer high-speed broadband
services.  As of December 31, 2009, we believe approximately 80% of
our local exchange markets are overlapped by cable systems offering data
services competitive with ours.  Many of these competitors offer
content or other features that we cannot match.   Moreover, many
of these providers have traditionally been subject to less rigorous regulatory
scrutiny than our subsidiaries, although recent FCC rule changes classifying our
high-speed offering as an “information service” has helped reduce regulatory
disparities.  Additionally, the federal broadband stimulus programs
could result in greater competition in some of our markets.  These recent
rule changes further provide companies the option to deregulate or detariff
high-speed Internet services.  During 2006, all of CenturyTel’s and
Embarq’s operating companies elected to either deregulate or detariff their
high-speed Internet services, which decreased regulatory oversight and increased
our retail pricing flexibility.



Fiber Transport
Operations.  When our fiber transport networks are used to
provide intrastate telecommunications services, we must comply with state
requirements for telecommunications utilities, including state tariffing
requirements.  To the extent our facilities are used to provide
interstate communications, we are subject to federal regulation as a
non-dominant common carrier.  Our primary competitors in the fiber
transport industry are from other communications companies, some of whom operate
networks and have resources much larger than ours.   Over the
last few years, several large communications companies have merged and have
implemented strategies to transfer a significant portion of their voice and data
traffic from our fiber network to their networks.  We expect this
trend to continue as companies seek opportunities to reduce their
transport-related costs.  In addition, new IP-based services may
enable new entrants to transport data at prices lower than we currently
offer.



CLEC
Operations.  Competitive local exchange carriers are subject to
certain reporting and other regulatory requirements by the FCC and state public
service commissions, although the degree of regulation is much less substantial
than that imposed on ILECs operating in the same markets.  Local
governments also frequently require competitive local exchange carriers to
obtain licenses or franchises regulating the use of rights-of-way necessary to
install and operate their networks.  In each of our CLEC markets, we
face competition from the ILEC, which traditionally has long-standing
relationships with its customers.  Over time, we may also face
competition from one or more other CLECs, or from other communications providers
who can provide comparable services.



Other
Operations.  Similar to our CLEC business, we may be required
to obtain licenses or franchises to enter new markets for our switched digital
television and wireless broadband services, which could delay our rollout of
these offerings.  The television and wireless communications markets
we have recently entered are highly competitive, which could limit our ability
to compete effectively.






Environmental
Compliance



As
discussed in greater detail in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
several decades ago one of our subsidiaries acquired entities that may have
owned or operated seven former “manufactured gas” plant sites that may require
environmental remediation.  From time to time we may incur other
environmental compliance and remediation expenses, mainly resulting from the
ownership of other prior industrial sites or the operation of vehicle fleets or
power supplies for our communications equipment.Although
we cannot assess with certainty the impact of any future compliance and
remediation obligations, we do not believe that future environmental compliance
and remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition or results of operations.



Patents,
Trademarks and Licenses



We own
several patents, patent applications, trade names, service marks and trademarks
in the U.S., including our “CenturyLink” brand trademark.  Our
services often use the intellectual property of others, including licensed
software.  We occasionally license our intellectual property to
others.



We have
incurred claims in the past, and may in the future incur claims alleging that we
infringe on the intellectual property of others.  These claims can be
time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management
resources.  If these claims are successful, we could be forced to pay
significant damages or stop selling certain products or services.



Seasonality



Overall,
our business is not significantly impacted by seasonality.  However,
in our Florida markets, we typically experience increased demand for new service
orders in the late fall months and a decline in access lines in the early spring
months due to seasonal population trends.  In certain of our other
markets servicing colleges or universities, we experience increased demand for
our services while school is in session.  Additionally, from time to
time weather-related problems have resulted in increased costs to repair our
network and respond to service calls in some of our markets.  The
amount and timing of the costs are subject to the weather patterns of any given
year, but have generally been highest during the third quarter and have been
related to damage from severe storms, including hurricanes, tropical storms and
tornadoes in our markets along the lower Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico
coastlines.





25OTHER
DEVELOPMENTS OR MATTERSIn recent
years, our board of directors has approved various stock repurchase programs
under which we have repurchased approximately $401.0 million, $186.7 million,
$437.5 million, $1.028 billion and $503.9 million of our shares under separate
repurchase programs approved in February 2004, February 2005, May 2005, February
2006 and August 2007, respectively.  For additional information, see
Liquidity and Capital Resources included in Item 7 of this annual
report.In June
2008, our board of directors increased our quarterly cash dividend rate from
$.0675 to $.70 per share and in February 2010 our quarterly dividend was further
increased to $.725 per share.  See “Risk Factors” below for additional
information regarding our current dividend practice.For
additional information concerning our business and properties, see Items 2 and 7
elsewhere herein, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes 2, 4, 5,
and 17 thereto set forth in Item 8 elsewhere herein.





