ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential,
business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, network access, private line (including special access), public access,
broadband, data, managed hosting (including cloud hosting), colocation, wireless and video services. In certain local and regional markets, we also provide local access and fiber transport services to
competitive local exchange carriers ("CLECs") and security monitoring. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers
with a complete offering of integrated communications services.

Based
on our 13.7 million of total access lines at December 31, 2012, we were the third largest telecommunications company in the United States. We operate almost 75% of
our total access lines in portions of Colorado, Washington, Arizona, Minnesota, Florida, North Carolina, Oregon, Iowa, Utah, New Mexico, Missouri and Nevada. We also provide local service in portions
of Idaho, Ohio, Wisconsin, Virginia, Texas, Pennsylvania, Montana, Alabama, Nebraska, Indiana, Arkansas, Tennessee, Wyoming, New Jersey, North Dakota, South Dakota, Kansas, Michigan, Louisiana, South
Carolina, Illinois, Georgia, Mississippi, Oklahoma and California. In the portion of these 37 states where we have access lines, which we refer to as our local service area, we are the incumbent local
telephone company. We also operate 54 data centers throughout North America, Europe and Asia. We define a data center as any facility where we market, sell and deliver either colocation services or
multi-tenant managed services, or both.

We
were incorporated under the laws of the State of Louisiana in 1968. Our principal executive offices are located at 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203 and our telephone
number is (318) 388-9000.

For
a discussion of certain risks applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report. The summary financial
information in this section should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 and "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report.

Acquisitions

Acquisition of Savvis

On July 15, 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Savvis, a provider of cloud hosting, managed hosting,
colocation and network services in domestic and international markets. We believe this acquisition enhanced our ability to provide information technology services to our existing business customers
and strengthened our ability to attract new business customers. Each share of Savvis common stock outstanding immediately prior to the acquisition converted into the right to receive $30 per share in
cash and 0.2479 shares of CenturyLink common stock. The aggregate consideration of $2.382 billion was based on:

•cash payments of $1.732 billion;









•the 14.313 million shares of CenturyLink common stock issued to consummate the acquisition;•the closing stock price of CenturyLink common stock at July 14, 2011 of $38.54; and•the estimated net value of the pre-combination portion of certain share-based compensation awards assumed by
CenturyLink of $98 million, of which $33 million was paid in cash.

Upon
completing the acquisition, we also paid $547 million to retire certain pre-existing Savvis debt and accrued interest.

Acquisition of Qwest

On April 1, 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Qwest, a provider of data, broadband, video and voice
services nationwide and globally. We entered into this acquisition, among other things, to realize certain strategic benefits, including enhanced financial and operational scale, market
diversification and leveraged combined networks. As of the acquisition date, Qwest served approximately 9.0 million access lines and approximately 3.0 million broadband subscribers
across 14 states. Each share of Qwest common stock outstanding immediately prior to the acquisition converted into the right to receive 0.1664 shares of CenturyLink common stock, with cash paid in
lieu of fractional shares. The aggregate consideration of $12.273 billion was based on:

•the 294 million shares of CenturyLink common stock issued to consummate the acquisition;•the closing stock price of CenturyLink common stock at March 31, 2011 of $41.55;•the estimated net value of the pre-combination portion of share-based compensation awards assumed by
CenturyLink of $52 million (excluding the value of restricted stock included in the number of issued shares specified above); and•cash paid in lieu of the issuance of fractional shares of $5 million.

We
assumed approximately $12.7 billion of long-term debt in connection with our acquisition of Qwest.

Effect of Recent Acquisitions

Our acquisitions in 2011 resulted in several important changes to our operations,
including:

•providing services to an expanded number of densely-populated markets, which tend to afford consumers access to a greater
range of competitive communications products than less dense markets;•reducing the percentage of our total revenue derived from governmental support programs, which typically focus on
disbursing payments to companies operating in less densely-populated areas;•expanding and reconfiguring our operating regions to incorporate the Qwest service areas in order to provide
day-to-day decision making at the regional level as opposed to the more centralized structures formerly used by Qwest; and•offering certain services, such as cloud hosting, that CenturyLink did not historically provide.

Other Acquisitions

On July 1, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Embarq Corporation ("Embarq"), a provider of data, Internet,
video and voice services for stock valued at approximately $6.1 billion on the acquisition date. As of the acquisition date, Embarq served approximately 5.4 million access lines and
approximately 1.5 million broadband subscribers across 18 states. We assumed approximately $4.9 billion of long-term debt in connection with our acquisition of Embarq.









We
regularly evaluate the possibility of acquiring additional assets in exchange for cash, securities or other properties, and at any given time may be engaged in discussions or
negotiations regarding additional acquisitions. We generally do not announce our acquisitions or dispositions until we have entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement.

References to Acquired Businesses

In the discussion that follows, we refer to the incremental business activities that we now operate as a result of the Savvis
acquisition and the Qwest acquisition as "Legacy Savvis" and "Legacy Qwest", respectively. References to "Legacy CenturyLink", when used in comparison of our consolidated results for the years ended
December 31, 2012 and 2011, mean the business we operated prior to the Qwest and Savvis acquisitions.

Financial and Operational Highlights

The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations. Our operating results include the operations of Savvis for
periods after July 15, 2011 and Qwest for periods after April 1, 2011.

Years Ended December 31,201220112010(Dollars in millions)Operating revenues$18,37615,3517,042Operating expenses15,66313,3264,982Operating income$2,7132,0252,060Net income$777573948



December 31,20122011(Dollars in millions)Balance sheet data:Total assets$54,02056,044Total long-term debt(1)20,60521,836Total stockholders' equity19,28920,827

(1)Total long-term debt is the sum of current maturities of long-term debt and
long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheets. For total obligations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Future
Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 of this report.

The following table summarizes certain of our operational metrics:

As of December 31,201220112010(in thousands)Operational metrics:Total broadband subscribers(1)5,8485,6522,349Total access lines(2)13,74814,5846,489

(1)Broadband
subscribers are customers that purchase high-speed Internet connection service through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic
cables.









(2)Access
lines are telephone lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public switched telephone network, or PSTN.

During the second quarter of 2012, we updated our methodology for counting broadband subscribers to include residential, business and wholesale
subscribers instead of only residential and small business subscribers. We have restated our previously reported amounts to reflect this change.

Substantially
all of our long-lived assets are located in the United States and substantially all of our revenues are from customers located in the United States. We estimate
that less than 2% of our consolidated revenue is derived from providing telecommunications and data hosting services outside the United States.

Operations

Segments

Since acquiring Qwest and Savvis in 2011, we have reorganized our operations and associated reporting segments on three occasions,
including in 2012 and early 2013.

During
the second quarter of 2012, in order to more effectively deploy the strategic assets acquired from Qwest and Savvis and to better serve our business and government customers, we
internally restructured our business into the following operating segments:

•

Regional markets.Consists primarily of providing
strategic and legacy products and services to residential consumers, state and local governments, small to medium-sized businesses and enterprise customers that in each case are located mainly within
one of our six regions. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our private line, broadband, MPLS, hosting, video services and wireless services. Our legacy services
offered to these customers consist primarily of local and long-distance service;

•

Wholesale markets.Consists primarily of providing
strategic and legacy products and services to other domestic and international communications providers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers are mainly private line
(including special access) and MPLS. Our legacy services offered to these customers include UNEs which allow our wholesale customers the use of our network or a combination of our network and their
own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers, long-distance and switched access services;

•

Enterprise markets—network.Consists primarily
of providing strategic and legacy network communications products and services to national and international enterprise and government customers. Our strategic products and services offered to these
customers include our private line, broadband, MPLS and hosting services. Our legacy services offered to these customers consist primarily of local and long-distance services; and

•

Enterprise markets—data hosting.Consists
primarily of providing colocation, managed hosting and cloud hosting services to national and international enterprise and government customers.









The
following table shows the composition of our revenues by segment for 2012 and 2011 under our segment categorization as of December 31, 2012.

Years Ended December 31,20122011ChangePercentage of revenue:Regional markets54%57%(3%)Wholesale markets20%22%(2%)Enterprise markets—network14%13%1%Enterprise markets—data hosting6%3%3%Other operating revenues6%5%1%Total100%100%

For additional information on our segment data, including our 2010 segment results and information on certain centrally-managed assets and
expenses not reflected in our segment reports, see Note 13—Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report and "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report.

On
January 3, 2013, we announced a reorganization of our operating segments. Beginning with the first quarter of 2013, we will report the following four segments in our
consolidated financial statements: consumer, business, wholesale and data hosting. For additional information on this change, please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report.

Products and Services

Our products and services include a variety of voice, broadband, data, information technology ("IT"), video and other communications
services. In 2011, we expanded our IT services to include cloud hosting, managed hosting, colocation and network services.

We
offer our customers the ability to bundle together several products and services. For example, we offer integrated and unlimited local and long-distance services. Our
customers can also bundle two or more services such as broadband, video (including DIRECTV through our strategic partnership), voice and Verizon Wireless (through our strategic partnership) services.
We believe our customers value the convenience and price discounts associated with receiving multiple services through a single company.

Most
of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper cables, fiber-optic cables and other equipment. Our
network serves approximately 13.7 million access lines and forms a portion of the public switched telephone network, or PSTN.

Described
below are our key products and services.

Strategic Services

Our customers use our strategic services to access the Internet, connect to private networks and transmit data. We also provide
value-added services and integrated solutions that make communications more secure, reliable and efficient for our customers. We focus our marketing and sales efforts on these
services:

•Private line.Private line (including special access) is a
direct circuit or channel specifically dedicated for the purpose of directly connecting two or more sites. Private line offers a









high-speed,
secure solution for frequent transmission of large amounts of data between sites. We also provide private line transmission services to wireless service providers that use our
fiber-optic cables connected to their towers, commonly referred to as fiber to the tower or wireless backhaul services, to support their next generation wireless networks;

•

Broadband.Our broadband services allow customers to
connect to the Internet through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables at high speeds. Substantially all of our broadband subscribers are located within our local service area;

•

MPLS.Multi-Protocol Label Switching is standards-approved
data networking technology, compatible with existing asynchronous transfer mode, or ATM, and frame relay networks we provide to support real-time voice and video. This technology allows
network operators flexibility to divert and route traffic around link failures, congestion and bottlenecks;

•

Managed Hosting.Managed hosting includes provision of
centralized IT infrastructure and a variety of managed services including cloud and traditional computing, application management, back-up, storage, and advanced services including
planning, design, implementation and support services;

•

Colocation.Colocation services enable our customers to
install their own IT equipment in our state-of-the art facilities through our centralized IT infrastructure;

•

Ethernet.Ethernet services include
point-to-point and multi-point configurations that facilitate data transmissions across metropolitan areas and wide area networks;

•

Video.Our video services include our facilities-based
video, marketed as CenturyLink™ Prism™, which is a premium entertainment service that allows our customers to watch hundreds of television or cable channels and record up to
four shows on one home digital video recorder. We also offer satellite digital television under an arrangement with DIRECTV that allows us to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand
name;

•

VoIP.Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, is a
real-time, two-way voice communication service (similar to our traditional voice services) that originates over a broadband connection and often terminates on the PSTN; and

•

Wireless services.Our wireless services are offered under
an agency arrangement with Verizon Wireless that allows us to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name, primarily to customers who buy these services as part of a bundle with one or
more of our other products and services. This arrangement allows us to sell the full complement of Verizon Wireless services. Our current five-year arrangement with Verizon Wireless runs
through 2015 and is terminable by either party thereafter.

Legacy Services

Our legacy services represent our traditional voice, data and network services, which include the following:

•Local.We offer local calling services for our regional
markets customers within our local service area, generally for a fixed monthly charge. These services include a number of enhanced calling features and other services, such as call forwarding, caller
identification, conference calling, voicemail, selective call ringing and call waiting, for which we generally charge an additional monthly fee. We also generate revenues from
non-recurring services, such as inside wire installation, maintenance services, service activation and reactivation.For
our wholesale customers, local calling services include primarily resale and UNEs, which allow our wholesale customers to use our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to
provide voice and data services to their customers. Local calling services also









include
network transport, billing services and access to our network by other telecommunications providers and wireless carriers. Local calling services provided to our wholesale customers allow
other telecommunications companies the ability to originate or terminate telecommunications services on our network;•Long-distance.We offer our residential and
business customers domestic and international long-distance services and toll-free services. Our international long-distance services include voice calls that
either terminate or originate with our customers in the United States;•ISDN.We offer integrated services digital network
("ISDN") services, which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications;•WAN.We offer wide area network ("WAN") services, which
allow a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations; and•Switched access services.We provide various forms of
switched access services to wireline and wireless service providers for the use of our facilities to originate and terminate their interstate and intrastate voice transmissions.Data Integration

Data integration involves our sale of telecommunications equipment to customers for use on their premises and related professional
services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of telecommunication and data equipment and the building of proprietary fiber-optic networks for our governmental and
other business customers.

Other Revenues

We also generate other operating revenues from Universal Service Fund ("USF") revenues and surcharges and the leasing and subleasing of
space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. The majority of our real estate properties are located in our local service area.

Additional Information

During 2008, we paid an aggregate of approximately $149 million for 69 licenses in the FCC's auction of 700 megahertz wireless
spectrum. During the second quarter of 2012, we committed to a plan to sell our Advanced Wireless Services A Block and 700 MHz wireless spectrum in the A, B, and C Blocks, which in the aggregate had a
basis of $154 million. We sold $58 million of our wireless spectrum assets during the fourth quarter of 2012, and we sold another $43 million of our wireless spectrum assets in
January 2013. In the aggregate, these transactions resulted in a gain of $32 million. We expect to reach agreements with various other purchasers for the remaining spectrum, and the
consummation of which will be subject to regulatory approval.

From
time to time, we also make investments in other communications companies.

For
further information on regulatory, technological and competitive changes that could impact our revenues, see "Regulation" and "Competition" under this Item 1 below and "Risk
Factors" under Item 1A below. For more information on the financial contributions of our various services, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" in Item 7 of this report.

Patents, Trade Names, Trademarks and Copyrights

Either directly or through our subsidiaries, we have rights in various patents, trade names, trademarks, copyrights and other
intellectual property necessary to conduct our business, such as our









CenturyLink™
and Prism™ brand names. Our services often use the intellectual property of others, including licensed software. We also occasionally license our intellectual
property to others.

Sales and Marketing

We maintain local offices in most of the larger population centers within our local service area. These offices provide sales and
customer support services in the community. We also rely on our call center personnel to promote sales of services that meet the needs of our customers. Our strategy is to enhance our communications
services by offering a comprehensive bundle of services and deploying new technologies to further enhance customer loyalty.

We
conduct most of our operations under the brand name "CenturyLink." Our satellite television service is offered on a co-branded basis under the "DIRECTV" name. Our switched
digital television service offering is branded under the name "Prism™." The wireless service that we offer under our agency agreement with Verizon Wireless is marketed under the "Verizon
Wireless" brand name. Currently, certain data hosting, IT and other services furnished through our Savvis operations are marketed under the "SAVVIS" or "savvisdirect" brand names.

Our
approach to our regional markets' residential customers emphasizes customer-oriented sales, marketing and service with a local presence. We market our products and services primarily
through direct sales representatives, inbound call centers, local retail stores, telemarketing and third parties. We support our distribution with direct mail, bill inserts, newspaper advertising,
website promotions, public relations activities and sponsorship of community events and sports venues.

Our
approach to our regional markets' business and government customers includes a commitment to deliver communications products and services that meet existing and future business needs
through bundles of services and integrated service offerings. Our focus is to be a comprehensive communications solution for our small office, mid-sized and select enterprise business and
government customers.

Our
approach to our wholesale markets' customers includes a commitment to deliver communications solutions that meet existing and future needs of national network telecommunications
providers through bandwidth growth and quality of services.

Our
approach to our enterprise market—network customers includes a commitment to deliver network products and services that meet existing and future customer needs by
offering private line, broadband, MPLS and hosting services and well as local and long-distance services.

Our
enterprise market—data hosting operations utilize a solution-based selling approach. By working directly with potential and existing clients, we are able to understand
our clients' IT infrastructure and long-term goals. We also market through indirect channels, including
collaborations with existing clients and technology providers, telecommunications companies and system integrators.

Network Architecture

Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper
cables, fiber-optic cables and other equipment. Our local exchange carrier networks also include central offices and remote sites, all with advanced digital switches and operating with licensed
software. Our fiber-optic cable is the primary transport technology between our central offices and interconnection points with other incumbent carriers. As of December 31, 2012, we maintained
over 1.03 million miles of copper plant and approximately 157 thousand miles of fiber-optic plant in our local exchange networks. We also maintain separate networks in connection with
providing fiber transport and CLEC services.

Most
of our long distance service is provided through reselling arrangements with other long distance carriers, with the balance being provided directly through CenturyLink's own
switches and









network
equipment. All of our satellite television and wireless voice service is provided by other carriers under agency agreements.

We
continue to enhance and expand our network by deploying broadband-enabled technologies to provide additional capacity to our customers. Rapid and significant changes in technology are
expected to continue in the telecommunications industry. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in customer demands and technology. In particular,
we anticipate that continued increases in broadband usage by our customers will require us to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity or to implement network management
practices to alleviate network capacity shortages, either of which could adversely impact our results of operation and financial condition. For additional information, see "Risk Factors", generally,
in Item 1A of this report, and, in particular, "Risk Factors—Risks Affecting Our Business—Increases in broadband usage may cause network capacity limitations, resulting
in service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower transmission speeds for our customers."

For
more information, see Item 2 of this report.

Regulation

We are subject to significant regulation by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"), which regulates interstate communications,
and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications in our local service area. These agencies issue rules to protect consumers and promote competition; they set the rates that
telecommunication companies charge each other for exchanging traffic; and they have established USF to support the provision of services to high-cost areas. In most states, local voice
service, switched and special access services and interconnection services are subject to price regulation, although the extent of regulation varies by type of service and geographic region. In
addition, we are required to maintain licenses with the FCC and with the utility commissions of most of the states in our local service area. Laws and regulations in many states restrict the manner in
which a licensed entity can interact with affiliates, transfer assets, issue debt and engage in other business activities, and many mergers and acquisitions require approval by the FCC and some state
commissions.

Historically,
incumbent local exchange carriers ("ILECs") operated as regulated monopolies having the exclusive right and responsibility to provide local telephone services in their
franchised service territories. As we discuss in greater detail below, passage of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, coupled with state legislative and regulatory initiatives and technological
change, fundamentally altered the telephone industry by generally reducing the regulation of ILECs and creating a substantial increase in the number of competitors. We are considered an ILEC. The
following description discusses some of the major industry regulations that affect our traditional telephone operations, but numerous other regulations not discussed below could also impact us. Some
legislation and regulations are currently the subject of judicial, legislative and administrative proceedings which could substantially change the manner in which the telecommunications industry
operates and the amount of revenues we receive for our services. Neither the outcome of these proceedings, nor their potential impact on us, can be predicted at this time. For additional information,
see Item 1A of this annual report below.

State Regulation

In recent years, most states have substantially reduced their regulation of ILECs. Nonetheless, state regulatory commissions generally
continue to regulate local service rates, intrastate access charges, state universal service funds and in some cases service quality, as they continue to grant and revoke certifications authorizing
companies to provide communications services. State commissions traditionally regulated pricing through "rate of return" regulation that focused on authorized levels of earnings by ILECs. Several
states continue to regulate us in this manner. In most of our states, we are generally regulated under various forms of alternative regulation that typically limit our ability to increase rates for
basic local voice service, but relieve us from the requirement to meet certain earnings tests. In a









few
states, we have recently gained pricing freedom for the majority of retail services except for the most basic of services, such as stand-alone basic residential voice service. In most of the
states in which we operate, we have gained pricing flexibility for certain enhanced calling services, such as caller identification and for bundled services that also include local voice service.
State commissions periodically conduct proceedings to review the rates that we charge other telecommunications providers for using our network or for reselling our service pursuant to the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.

We
are currently responding to carrier complaints, legislation or generic investigations regarding our intrastate switched access rates in several of our states. In particular, certain
long-distance providers have disputed existing intercarrier compensation rates payable to us and other ILECs with respect to VoIP traffic or refused to pay access charges, based on the
contention that tariffed switched access charges should not apply to VoIP traffic. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted an order comprehensively reforming federal intercarrier compensation and
universal service policies and rules, as discussed further below under the heading "Federal Regulation." Among other things, this order preempted state regulatory commissions' jurisdiction over all
terminating access charges, including intrastate access charges that have historically been subject to exclusive state jurisdiction. Furthermore, the FCC decreed that, on a prospective basis,
intercarrier compensation rates for VoIP traffic will be established at interstate access rates in the event intrastate switched access rates exceed interstate rates.

The
FCC order requires all terminating access rates including intrastate, interstate and reciprocal compensation rates to be reduced and unified over time. Excluding the rate
implications contemplated on a prospective basis by the recent FCC order, we will continue to vigorously defend and seek to collect our intrastate switched access revenue subject to outstanding
disputes. These historical disputes are primarily over access charge compensation for VoIP traffic terminating on the public switched telephone network. The outcomes of these disputes cannot be
determined at this time. If we are required to reduce our intrastate switched access rates as a result of any of these disputes or state initiatives, we will seek to recover displaced switched access
revenues from state universal service funds or other services. However, the amount of such recovery, particularly from residential customers, is not assured.

Under
state law, our telephone operating subsidiaries are typically governed by laws and regulations that (i) regulate the purchase and sale of ILECs, (ii) prescribe
certain reporting requirements, (iii) require ILECs to provide service under publicly-filed tariffs setting forth the terms, conditions and prices of regulated services, (iv) limit
ILECs' ability to borrow and pledge their assets, (v) regulate transactions between ILECs and their affiliates, and (vi) impose various other service standards.

Unlike
many of our competitors, as an ILEC we generally face "carrier of last resort" obligations which include an ongoing requirement to provide service to all prospective and current
customers in our
service area who request service and are willing to pay rates prescribed in our tariffs. In competitively-bid situations, such as newly-constructed housing developments or multi-tenant
dwellings, this may constitute a competitive disadvantage to us if competitors can choose to focus on low-risk profitable customers and withhold service from high-risk
unprofitable customers. In addition, strict adherence to carrier of last resort requirements may force us to construct facilities with a low likelihood of positive economic return.

We
operate in states where traditional cost recovery mechanisms, including rate structures, are under evaluation or have been modified. There can be no assurance that these states will
continue to provide for cost recovery at current levels.

Federal Regulation

We are required to comply with the Communications Act of 1934, which requires us to offer services at just and reasonable rates and on
non-discriminatory terms, as well as the









Telecommunications
Act of 1996, which amended the Communications Act of 1934 primarily to promote competition.

The
FCC regulates interstate services provided by us, including the special access charges we bill for wholesale network transmission and the interstate access charges that we bill to
long-distance companies and other communications companies in connection with the origination and termination of interstate voice and data transmissions. Additionally, the FCC regulates a
number of aspects of our business related to privacy, homeland security and network infrastructure, including access to and use of local telephone numbers. The FCC has responsibility for maintaining
and administering the federal USF, which provides substantial support for maintaining networks in high-cost areas, as well as supporting service to low-income households,
schools and libraries, and rural health care providers. Like other communications network operators, ILECs must obtain FCC approval to use certain radio frequencies, or to transfer control of any such
licenses. The FCC retains the right to revoke these licenses if a carrier materially violates relevant legal requirements.

We,
like other large and mid-sized ILECs, operate under price-cap regulation of interstate access rates. Under price-cap regulation, limits imposed on
a company's interstate rates are adjusted periodically to reflect inflation, productivity improvement and changes in certain non-controllable costs.

In
recent years, our operations and those of other telecommunications carriers have been further impacted by legislation and regulation imposing additional obligations on us,
particularly with regards to providing broadband service, bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery requirements, minimizing environmental impacts and enhancing privacy. These laws
include the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, and laws governing local telephone number portability and customer proprietary network information requirements. These laws and
regulations may cause us to incur additional costs and could impact our ability to compete effectively.

In
December 2012, the FCC initiated a special access proceeding and has requested data, information and documents to allow it to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of competition in the
special access market. The ultimate impact of this proceeding on the Company is currently unknown. However, if the FCC were to adopt significant changes in regulations affecting special access
services, this could adversely impact our operations or financial results.

Universal Service Fund and Other Related Matters

For decades, the FCC has regularly considered various intercarrier compensation reforms, generally with a goal to create a uniform
mechanism to be used by the entire telecommunications industry for payments between carriers originating, terminating, or carrying telecommunications traffic. In connection therewith, the FCC
solicited public comments on a variety of topics related to access charges and intercarrier compensation.

The
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "Recovery Act") includes certain broadband initiatives that are intended to accelerate broadband deployment across the United
States. The Recovery Act approved $7.2 billion in funding for broadband stimulus projects across the United States to be administered by two governmental agencies. The programs provide grants
and loans to applicants for construction of certain broadband infrastructure, provision of certain broadband services, and support of certain broadband adoption initiatives. This program has attracted
a wide range of applicants including states, municipalities, start-up companies and consortiums. The participation of other parties in these programs has increased competition in selected
areas, which may increase our marketing costs and decrease our revenues in those areas. This trend may intensify if program participation increases.

On
October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order"), intended to reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize
ongoing shifts to
new technologies, including VoIP, and gradually re-direct universal service funding to foster









nationwide
broadband coverage. This initial ruling provides for a multi-year transition over the next decade as terminating intercarrier compensation charges are reduced, universal service
funding is explicitly targeted to broadband deployment, and line charges paid by end user customers are gradually increased. We anticipate that these changes will substantially increase the pace of
reductions in the amount of switched access revenues in our wholesale segment, while creating opportunities for increases in federal USF and retail revenue streams.

On
December 29, 2011, the CAF order went into effect. At the same time, numerous parties filed a petition for reconsideration with the FCC seeking numerous revisions to the order.
In January 2012, we joined more than two dozen parties in challenging certain aspects of the order by filing a separate appeal that is expected to be heard by the United States Tenth Circuit Court of
Appeals in late 2013. Future judicial challenges to the CAF order are possible, which could alter or delay the FCC's proposed changes. In addition, based on the outcome of the FCC proceedings, various
state commissions may consider changes to their universal service funds or intrastate access rates. Moreover, rulemaking designed to implement the order is not complete, and several FCC proceedings
relating to the order remain pending. For these and other reasons, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings at this time.

On
January 31, 2012, the FCC adopted an order modernizing the program that provides assistance to qualifying low-income individuals for local voice service. These
changes also affect state-specific programs that provide assistance to qualifying individuals. The impact of these changes on us and our low-income customers cannot be quantified at this
time, but we may face increased administrative costs, additional audit requirements and potential customer disconnections as a result of this FCC order and its implementation.

We
received approximately $543 million, $510 million and $431 million of revenue from federal and state universal service programs for the years ended
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Such amounts represented approximately 3.0%, 3.3% and 6.1% of our 2012, 2011 and 2010 total operating revenues, respectively.

Other Regulations

Certain of our telecommunications and data hosting services conducted in foreign countries are or may become subject to various foreign
laws, including those regulating the protection and retention of data.

Competition

General

We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market and we expect intense competition to continue. We compete with cable and
satellite companies, wireless providers, national telecommunications providers (such as AT&T, Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.) and a variety of other competitors. Technological
advances, regulatory and legislative changes have increased opportunities for alternative communications service providers, which in turn have increased competitive pressures on our business. These
alternate providers often face fewer regulations and have lower cost structures than we do. In addition, the telecommunications industry has experienced substantial consolidation over the past decade
and some of our competitors in one or more lines of our business are generally larger, have stronger brand names, have more financial and business resources and have broader service offerings than we
currently do.

Over
the past decade, fundamental technological, regulatory and legislative changes have significantly impacted the communications industry, and we expect these changes will continue.
Primarily as a result of regulatory and technological changes, competition has been introduced and









encouraged
in each sector of the communications industry in recent years. As a result, we increasingly face competition from other communication service providers, as further described below.

Wireless
telephone services increasingly constitute a significant source of competition with our ILEC services. As a result, some customers have chosen to completely forego use of
traditional wireline phone service and instead rely solely on wireless service for voice services. We anticipate this trend will continue, particularly if wireless service providers continue to expand
their coverage areas, reduce their rates, improve the quality of their services and offer enhanced new services. Substantially all of our access line customers are currently capable of receiving
wireless services from at least one competitive service provider. Technological and regulatory developments in wireless services, personal communications services, digital microwave, satellite,
coaxial cable, fiber-optics, local multipoint distribution services, WiFi, and other wired and wireless technologies are expected to further permit the development of alternatives to traditional
landline services. Moreover, the growing prevalence of electronic mail, text messaging, social networking and similar digital communications continues to reduce the demand for traditional landline
voice services.

The
Telecommunications Act of 1996, which obligates ILECs to permit competitors to interconnect their facilities to the ILEC's network and to take various other steps that are designed
to promote competition, imposes several duties on an ILEC if it receives a specific request from another entity which seeks to connect with or provide services using the ILEC's network. In addition,
each ILEC is obligated to (i) negotiate interconnection agreements in good faith, (ii) provide nondiscriminatory "unbundled" access to all aspects of the ILEC's network,
(iii) offer resale of its telecommunications services at wholesale rates and (iv) permit competitors, on terms and conditions (including rates) that are just, reasonable and
nondiscriminatory, to colocate their physical plant on the ILEC's property, or provide virtual colocation if physical colocation is not practicable. Current FCC rules require ILECs to lease a network
element only in those situations where competing carriers genuinely would be impaired without access to such network elements, and where the unbundling would not interfere with the development of
facilities-based competition.

As
a result of these regulatory, consumer and technological developments, ILECs also face competition from competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, particularly in densely
populated areas. CLECs provide competing services through reselling the ILECs' local services, through use of the ILECs' unbundled network elements or through their own facilities.

Technological
developments have led to the development of new services that compete with traditional ILEC services. Technological improvements have enabled cable television companies to
provide traditional circuit-switched telephone service over their cable networks, and several national cable companies have aggressively pursued this opportunity. Similarly, companies providing VoIP
services provide voice communication services over the Internet which compete with our traditional telephone service and our own VoIP services.

Similar
to us, many cable, technology or other communications companies that previously offered a limited range of services are now offering diversified bundles of services, either
through their own networks, reselling arrangements or joint ventures. As such, a growing number of companies are competing to serve the communications needs of the same customer base. Such activities
will continue to place downward pressure on the demand for our access lines and the pricing of our services.

As
both consumers and business customers increasingly demand high-speed connections for entertainment, communications and productivity, we expect the demands on our network
will continue to increase over the next several years. To succeed, we and other network-based providers must ensure that our networks can deliver services that meet these increasing bandwidth
requirements. We plan to continue to invest in our network to be able to meet this future demand. In addition, network reliability and security are increasingly important competitive factors in the
enterprise business.









In
addition to facing direct competition from those providers described above, ILECs increasingly face competition from alternate communication systems constructed by long distance
carriers, large customers or alternative access vendors. These systems are capable of originating or terminating calls without use of the ILECs' networks or switching services. Other potential sources
of competition include non-carrier systems that are capable of bypassing ILECs' local networks, either partially or completely, through various means, including the provision of special
access or independent switching services and the concentration of telecommunications traffic on a few of the ILECs' access lines. We anticipate that all these trends will continue and lead to
decreased use of our networks.

Additional
information about competitive pressures is located (i) under the heading "Risk Factors—Risks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of this report and
(ii) in the discussion immediately below, which contains more specific information on how these trends in competition have impacted our segments.

Regional Markets

Strategic Services

With respect to our strategic services, competition is based on price, bandwidth, service, promotions and bundled offerings. Wireless
carriers' fourth generation, or 4G, services are allowing them to more directly compete with our strategic services. In reselling DIRECTV video services, we compete primarily with cable and other
satellite companies as well as other sales
agents and resellers. We also compete with interexchange carriers and other broadband service providers. Our Prism™ residential video service faces substantial competition from a variety
of competitors, including well-established cable companies and companies that deliver content over the Internet and on mobile devices at little or no cost to their customers. Many of our
competitors for these strategic services are not subject to the same regulatory requirements as we are and therefore they are able to avoid significant regulatory costs and obligations

Our
strategy is based on pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs and on maintaining our focus on increasing the subscribers of our
broadband services. In order to remain competitive, we believe continually increasing connection speeds is important. As a result, we continue to invest in our network, which allows for the delivery
of higher speed broadband services. While traditional ATM-based broadband services are declining, they have been more than offset by growth in fiber-based broadband services. We also
continue to expand our product offerings including facilities-based video services and enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a maturing market in which a significant portion of consumers
already have broadband services.

Legacy Services

Although our status as an ILEC continues to provide us advantages in providing local services in our local service area, as noted above
we increasingly face significant competition as an increasing number of consumers are willing to substitute cable, wireless and electronic communications for traditional voice telecommunications
services. This has led to an increase in the number and type of competitors within our industry and a decrease in our market share. As a result of this product substitution, we face greater
competition in providing local and long distance services from wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves), social media hosts and broadband service providers, including cable
companies. We also continue to compete with traditional telecommunications providers, such as national carriers, smaller regional providers, CLECs and independent telephone companies.

Our
strategy to reduce access line loss is based primarily on our pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs. While bundle price
discounts have









resulted
in lower average revenues for our individual services, we believe service bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention. In addition to our bundle discounts, we also offer
limited time promotions on our broadband service for prospective customers who want our broadband service
in their bundle, which further aids our ability to attract and retain customers and increase usage of our services.

Data Integration

In providing data integration to our customers, we compete primarily with large integrators, equipment providers and national
telecommunication providers. Competition is based on package offerings and as such we focus on providing these customers individualized and customizable packages. Our strategy is to provide our data
integration through packages that include other strategic and legacy services. As such, in providing data integration we often face many of the same competitive pressures as we face in providing
strategic and legacy services, as discussed above.

Wholesale Markets

Strategic Services

In providing private line (including special access) services to our wholesale markets customers, we compete with large cable
companies, as well as other regional and national carriers, other fiber providers and CLECs. Demand for our private line services continues to increase, despite our customers' optimization of their
networks, industry consolidation and technological migration. While we expect that these factors will continue to impact our wholesale markets segment, we believe the growth in fiber-based special
access provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, ultimately offset the decline in copper-based special access provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services,
although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain.

Legacy Services

The provision of our legacy services to other communications providers is highly competitive, and has been and will continue to be
adversely affected by product substitution, technological migration, industry consolidation and rate reductions. We face significant competition for access services from CLECs, cable companies,
resellers and wireless service providers as well as some of our own wholesale markets customers, which are deploying their own networks to provide customers with local services. By doing so, these
competitors reduce traffic on our network. In addition, our long-distance revenues continue to decline as a result of customer migration to more technologically advanced services, price
compression, and declining demand for traditional voice services.

Enterprise Markets—Network

Strategic Services

Our competitors for integrated data, Internet, voice services and other IT services range from mid-sized businesses to
large enterprises. Due to the size and capacity of some of these companies, they may be able to offer more inexpensive solutions to our customers. To compete, we focus on providing complex, secure and
performance-driven services to our business customers through our global infrastructure. Our network services continue to see pricing pressures on virtual private network and bandwidth services offset
by increases in network services that support our colocation and managed hosting service offerings. Our keys to growth include targeting the right clients, offering targeted business solutions to
solve specific client needs and delivering compelling and comprehensive technical capabilities.









Legacy Services

We face intense competition with respect to our legacy services and continue to see customers migrating away from these services and
into strategic services. In addition, our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses and price competition.

Data Integration

We expect data integration to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to
changes in the economy and in spending trends of our federal government customers. In addition, changes to our compensation programs, which focus on higher margin strategic services, could negatively
impact data integration revenues.

Enterprise Markets—Data Hosting

Strategic Services

Our competitors for hosting, colocation and other IT services include telecommunications companies, hardware manufacturers and system
integrators that support the in-house IT operations for a business or offer outsourcing solutions. Due to the size and capacity of some of these companies, they may be able to offer more
inexpensive solutions to our customers. To compete, we focus on providing complex, secure and performance-driven services to our business customers through our global infrastructure on the same terms
outlined under the heading "Business—Enterprise Markets—Network—Strategic Services" in Item I of this report.

For
our colocation services, we continue to see pricing pressures with respect to these services as low-cost wholesale colocation providers continue to enter our market, and
we expect this trend to continue. Our services can be purchased individually or as part of a total outsourcing arrangement.

Environmental Compliance

Several decades ago one of our subsidiaries acquired entities that may have owned or operated seven former "manufactured gas" plant
sites that may require environmental remediation. From time to time we may incur other environmental compliance and remediation expenses, mainly resulting from the ownership of other prior industrial
sites or the operation of vehicle fleets or power supplies for our communications equipment. Although we cannot assess with certainty the impact of any future compliance and remediation obligations or
provide you with any assurances regarding the ultimate impact thereof, we do not believe that future environmental compliance and remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition or results of operations.

Seasonality

Overall, our business is not significantly impacted by seasonality. From time to time weather related problems have resulted in
increased costs to repair our network and respond to service calls in some of our markets. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to the weather patterns of any given year, but have
generally been highest during the third quarter and have been related to damage from severe storms, including hurricanes, tropical storms and tornadoes in our markets along the lower Atlantic and Gulf
of Mexico coastlines.

Employees

At December 31, 2012, we had approximately 47,000 employees, of which approximately 18,000 are members of either the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ("IBEW") or the Communications Workers of America ("CWA"). Approximately 12,000 of these employees are subject









to
collective bargaining agreements that expired October 6, 2012. We are currently negotiating the terms of new agreements. In the meantime, the predecessor agreements have been extended, and
the unions have agreed to provide at least twenty-four hour advance notice before terminating those predecessor agreements. See the discussion of risks relating to our labor relations in
"Risk Factors—Risks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of this report.

Over
the past several years, we have reduced our workforce primarily due to (i) integration efforts from our recent acquisitions; (ii) increased competitive pressures; and
(iii) the loss of access lines.

Website Access and Important Investor Information

Our website iswww.centurylink.com. The information contained on, or that may be
accessed through, our website is not part of this annual report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website
(ir.centurylink.com) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC.

We
have adopted written codes of conduct that serve as the code of ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior
financial officers, in accordance with applicable laws and rules promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. In the event that we make any changes (other than by a technical,
administrative or non-substantive amendment) to, or provide any waivers from, the provisions of our code of conduct applicable to our directors or executive officers, we intend to disclose
these events on our website or in a report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. These codes of conduct, as well as copies of our guidelines on significant governance issues and the
charters of our audit committee, compensation committee, nominating and corporate governance committee and risk evaluation committee, are also available in the "Corporate Governance" section of our
website atwww.centurylink.com/Pages/AboutUs/Governance/or in print to any shareholder who requests them by sending a written request to our Corporate
Secretary at CenturyLink, Inc., 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe, Louisiana, 71203.

Investors
may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. For information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room, you are encouraged to call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. For all of our electronic filings, the SEC maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy
and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

In
connection with filing this annual report, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer made the certifications regarding our financial disclosures required under the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and its related regulations. In addition, during 2012, our chief executive officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was unaware of any violations by us of
the New York Stock Exchange's corporate governance listing standards.

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Related Matters

This report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities law include, and future oral or written statements or press
releases by us and our management may include, forward-looking statements about our financial condition, operating results and business. These statements include, among
others:

•statements concerning the benefits that we expect will result from our business activities and certain transactions we
have completed, such as increased revenue and decreased capital or operating expenditures;









•statements about our anticipated future operating and financial performance, financial position and liquidity, tax
position, contingent liabilities, growth opportunities and growth rates, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, business prospects, regulatory and competitive outlook, investment and expenditure
plans, investment results, financing alternatives and sources and pricing plans; and•other similar statements of our expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated developments and other
matters that are not historical facts, many of which are highlighted by words such as "may," "would," "could," "should," "plan," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "projects,"
"intends," "likely," "seeks," "hopes," or variations or similar expressions.

These
forward-looking statements are based upon our judgment and assumptions as of the date such statements are made concerning future developments and events, many of which are beyond
our control. These forward-looking statements, and the assumptions upon which they are based, are inherently speculative and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events and
results
may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected or implied by us in those statements if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions
prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to:

•

the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers;

•

the risks inherent in rapid technological change;

•

the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry, including the outcome or regulatory or
judicial proceedings relating to intercarrier compensation, access charges, universal service, broadband deployment and net neutrality;

•

our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages;

•

our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets
and product mix caused by our recent acquisitions;

•

our ability to successfully integrate recently-acquired operations into our incumbent operations, including the
possibility that the anticipated benefits from our recent acquisitions cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating the acquired operations will be more difficult,
disruptive or costly than anticipated;

•

our ability to use net operating loss carryovers of Qwest in projected amounts;

•

our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel;

•

possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services, including our ability to effectively respond
to increased demands for high-speed broadband service;

•

our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis;

•

our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms;

•

our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies;

•

any adverse developments in legal or regulatory proceedings involving us;









•our ability to continue to pay common share dividends in accordance with past practices, which may be affected by changes
in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position;•unanticipated increases or other changes in our future cash requirements, whether caused by unanticipated increases in
capital expenditures, increases in pension funding requirements or otherwise;•the effects of adverse weather;•other risks referenced in this report or other of our filings with the SEC; and•the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices,
in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy.

These
and other uncertainties related to our business and our recent acquisitions are described in greater detail in Item 1A of this report, which is subject to updating and
supplementing by our subsequent SEC reports.

These
risk factors should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we or persons acting on our behalf may issue. Anticipated events may not
occur and our actual results or performance may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying
assumptions prove incorrect. Additional risks that we currently deem immaterial or that are not presently known to us could also cause our actual results to differ materially from our expected
results. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements for any
reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Further, the information about our intentions contained in this document is a
statement of our intentions as of the date of this document and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory environment, industry conditions, market conditions and prices, the economy
in general and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise.

Investors
should also be aware that while we do, at various times, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material
non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst irrespective of the
content of the statement or report.
To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility.

Unless
otherwise indicated, information contained in this report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities laws concerning our views and expectations regarding the
communications industry are based on estimates made by us using data from industry sources, and on assumptions made by us based on our management's knowledge and experience in the markets in which we
operate and the communications industry generally. You should be aware that we have not independently verified data from industry or other third-party sources and cannot guarantee its accuracy or
completeness. Our estimates and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed below in Item 1A of this report.

