10-K


c68394e10-k.htm

FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001

Xcel Energy Inc. Form 10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Xcel Energy Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Minnesota

41-0448030

(State of other jurisdiction of

incorporation of organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

800 Nicollet Mall,

Minneapolis, Minn.

(Address of principal executive
	offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(612) 330-5500

Former name, former address and former fiscal
year, if changed since last report

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrants
(1) have filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrants were required to file such reports), and
(2) have been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrants’ knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this
Form 10-K.

o

As of March 15, 2002, the aggregate market
value of the voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant was $9,448,331,754 and there were 370,066,813 shares
of common stock outstanding, $2.50 par value.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement
for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be held
April 18, 2002, is incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Form 10-K.



INDEX





Item
l.

Business

COMPANY OVERVIEW

On Aug. 18, 2000, New Century Energies, Inc.
(NCE) and Northern States Power Co. (NSP) merged and formed Xcel
Energy Inc. (Xcel Energy). Xcel Energy, a Minnesota corporation,
is a registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). As part of the merger, NSP
transferred its existing utility operations that were being
conducted directly by NSP at the parent company level to a newly
formed subsidiary of Xcel Energy named Northern States Power Co.
Each share of NCE common stock was exchanged for 1.55 shares of
Xcel Energy common stock. NSP shares became Xcel Energy shares
on a one-for-one basis. As a stock-for-stock exchange for
shareholders of both companies, the merger was accounted for as
a pooling-of-interests and accordingly, amounts reported for
periods prior to the merger have been restated for comparability
with post-merger results.

Xcel Energy directly owns six utility
subsidiaries that serve electric and natural gas customers in 12
states. These six utility subsidiaries are Northern States Power
Co., a Minnesota corporation (NSP-Minnesota); Northern States
Power Co., a Wisconsin corporation (NSP-Wisconsin); Public
Service Co. of Colorado, a Colorado corporation (PSCo);
Southwestern Public Service Co., a Wyoming corporation (SPS);
Black Mountain Gas Co., an Arizona corporation (BMG); and
Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Co., a Wyoming corporation
(Cheyenne). Their service territories include portions of
Arizona, Colorado, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico,
North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Wisconsin and
Wyoming. Xcel Energy’s regulated businesses also include
Viking Gas Transmission Co. (Viking) and WestGas InterState,
Inc. (WGI), both interstate natural gas pipeline companies.

Xcel Energy also owns or has an interest in a
number of nonregulated businesses, the largest of which is NRG
Energy, Inc. (NRG), a publicly traded independent power
producer. At Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy indirectly owned
approximately 74 percent of NRG. Xcel Energy’s
ownership of NRG was 100 percent until the second quarter
of 2000, when NRG completed its initial public offering, and
then 82 percent until a secondary offering was completed in
March 2001. See Note 19 to the Financial Statements under
Item 8 for discussion of potential changes in NRG ownership.

In addition to NRG, Xcel Energy’s
nonregulated subsidiaries include Utility Engineering
(engineering, construction and design), Seren Innovations, Inc.
(broadband telecommunications services), e prime inc. (natural
gas marketing and trading), Planergy International, Inc.
(enterprise energy management solutions), Eloigne Co.
(investments in rental housing projects that qualify for
low-income housing tax credits) and Xcel Energy International
(an international independent power producer).

Xcel Energy was incorporated under the laws of
Minnesota in 1909. Its executive offices are located at 800
Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minn. 55402.

For information on the nonregulated subsidiaries
of Xcel Energy, see Nonregulated Subsidiaries under Item 1.
For information regarding Xcel Energy’s segments and
foreign revenues, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements under
Item 8.

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Minnesota was incorporated in 2000 under the
laws of Minnesota. NSP-Minnesota is an operating utility engaged
in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity
and the transportation, storage and distribution of natural gas.
NSP-Minnesota provides generation, transmission and distribution
of electricity in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota.
NSP-Minnesota also purchases, distributes and sells natural gas
to retail customers and transports customer-owned gas in
Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota. NSP-Minnesota provides
retail electric utility service to approximately
1.3 million customers and gas utility service to
approximately 0.4 million customers.



NSP-Minnesota owns the following direct
subsidiaries: United Power and Land Co., which holds real
estate; NSP Nuclear Corp., which holds NSP-Minnesota’s
interest in the Nuclear Management Co.; and NSP Financing I, a
special purpose business trust.

NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Wisconsin was incorporated in 1901 under the
laws of Wisconsin. NSP-Wisconsin is an operating utility engaged
in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity
to approximately 229,000 retail customers in northwestern
Wisconsin and in the western portion of the Upper Peninsula of
Michigan. NSP-Wisconsin is also engaged in the distribution and
sale of natural gas in the same service territory to
approximately 90,000 customers in Wisconsin and Michigan.

NSP-Wisconsin owns the following direct
subsidiaries: Chippewa and Flambeau Improvement Co., which
operates hydro reserves; Clearwater Investments Inc., which owns
interests in affordable housing; and NSP Lands, Inc., which
holds real estate.

PSCo

PSCo was incorporated in 1924 under the laws of
Colorado. PSCo is an operating utility engaged principally in
the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of
electricity and the purchase, transportation, distribution and
sale of natural gas. PSCo serves approximately 1.3 million
electric customers and approximately 1.1 million natural
gas customers in Colorado.

PSCo owns the following direct subsidiaries: 1480
Welton, Inc., which owns certain real estate interests of PSCo;
PSR Investments, Inc., which owns and manages permanent life
insurance policies on certain employees; Green and Clear Lakes
Company, which owns water rights; PS Colorado Credit Corp., a
finance company that financed certain of PSCo’s current
assets, but was dissolved in 2002; and PSCo Capital Trust I, a
special purpose financing trust. PSCo also holds a controlling
interest in several other relatively small ditch and water
companies whose capital requirements are not significant.

SPS

SPS was incorporated in 1921 under the laws of
New Mexico. SPS is an operating utility engaged primarily in the
generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity.
SPS serves approximately 387,000 electric customers in portions
of Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Kansas. The wholesale
customers served by SPS comprise approximately 34 percent
of the total kilowatt-hour sales.

SPS owns a direct subsidiary, SPS Capital I,
which is a special purpose financing trust.

Other
Regulated Subsidiaries

Cheyenne was incorporated in 1900 under the laws
of Wyoming. Cheyenne is an operating utility engaged in the
purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and
natural gas primarily serving approximately 37,000 electric
customers and 30,000 natural gas customers in and around
Cheyenne, Wyo.

BMG was incorporated in 1999 under the laws of
Minnesota. BMG is a natural gas and propane distribution
company, located in Cave Creek, Ariz., with approximately 8,600
customers.

Viking Gas, acquired in 1993, owns and operates
an interstate natural gas pipeline serving portions of
Minnesota, Wisconsin and North Dakota. Viking operates
exclusively as a transporter of natural gas for third-party
shippers under authority granted by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC).

WGI was incorporated in 1990 under the laws of
Colorado. WGI is a natural gas transmission company engaged in
transporting natural gas from Chalk Bluffs, Colo., to Cheyenne,
Wyo.



UTILITY REGULATION

Ratemaking Principles

The Xcel Energy system is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
under PUHCA. The rules and regulations under PUHCA generally
limit the operations of a registered holding company to a single
integrated public utility system, plus additional energy-related
businesses. PUHCA rules require that transactions between
affiliated companies in a registered holding company system be
performed at cost, with limited exceptions. See additional
discussion of PUHCA requirements under Factors Affecting Results
of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources in
Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)
has jurisdiction over rates for electric transmission service
and wholesale electric energy sold in interstate commerce, hydro
facility licensing, the wholesale gas transportation rates of
Viking, the siting and construction of facilities by Viking and
certain other activities of Xcel Energy’s utility
subsidiaries. Federal, state and local agencies also have
jurisdiction over many of Xcel Energy’s other activities.

Xcel Energy is unable to predict the impact on
its operating results from the future regulatory activities of
any of these agencies. Xcel Energy strives to comply with all
rules and regulations issued by the various agencies.

NSP-Minnesota

Retail rates, services and other aspects of
NSP-Minnesota’s operations are subject to the jurisdiction
of the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC), the North
Dakota Public Service Commission (NDPSC) and the South Dakota
Public Utilities Commission (SDPUC) within their respective
states. The MPUC also possesses regulatory authority over
aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s financial activities, including
security issuances, certain property transfers, mergers with
other utilities and transactions between NSP-Minnesota and its
affiliates. In addition, the MPUC reviews and approves
NSP-Minnesota’s electric resource plans and gas supply
plans for meeting customers’ future energy needs. The MPUC
also certifies the need for generating plants greater than 50
megawatts and transmission lines greater than 100 kilovolts.
NSP-Minnesota has received authorization from the FERC to act as
a power marketer.

The Minnesota Environmental Quality Board (MEQB)
is empowered to select and designate sites for new power plants
with a capacity of 50 megawatts or more and wind energy
conversion plants with a capacity of five megawatts or more. It
also designates routes for electric transmission lines with a
capacity of 100 kilovolts or more. No power plant or
transmission line may be constructed in Minnesota except on a
site or route designated by the MEQB.

NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Wisconsin is subject to regulation of similar
scope by the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin (PSCW) and
the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC). In addition, each
of the state commissions certifies the need for new generating
plants and electric and retail gas transmission lines of
designated capacities to be located within the respective states
before the facilities may be sited and built.

The PSCW has a biennial filing requirement. By
June of each odd-numbered year, NSP-Wisconsin must submit a rate
filing for the two-year period beginning the following January.
The filing procedure and review generally allow the PSCW
sufficient time to issue an order effective with the start of
the test year.

PSCo

PSCo is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Colorado Public Utility Commission (CPUC) with respect to its
facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuance of
securities. PSCo is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with
respect to its wholesale electric operations and accounting
practices and policies. PSCo has received authorization from the
FERC to act as a power marketer. Also, PSCo holds a FERC
certificate that



allows it to transport natural gas in interstate
commerce without PSCo becoming subject to full FERC jurisdiction.

SPS

The Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) has
jurisdiction over SPS’ Texas operations as an electric
utility and over its retail rates and services. The
municipalities in which SPS operates in Texas have original
jurisdiction over SPS’ rate in those communities. The New
Mexico Public Regulatory Commission (NMPRC) has jurisdiction
over the issuance of securities and accounting. The NMPRC, the
Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Kansas Corporation
Commission have jurisdiction with respect to retail rates and
services in their respective states. The FERC has jurisdiction
over SPS’ rates for wholesale sales for resale and the
transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. SPS has
received authorization from the FERC to act as a power marketer.

Cheyenne

Cheyenne is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Wyoming Public Service Commission (WPSC) with respect to
its facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuance of
securities.

Other

Viking and WGI are subject to the FERC
jurisdiction and each holds a FERC certificate, which allows
them to transport natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to
the provisions of the Natural Gas Act. BMG is subject to the
Arizona Corporation Commission (ACC).

Fuel, Purchased Gas and Resource Adjustment
Clauses

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Minnesota’s retail electric rate
schedules provide for adjustments to billings and revenues for
changes in the cost of fuel and purchased energy. NSP-Minnesota
is permitted to recover financial instrument costs through a
fuel clause adjustment, a mechanism that allows NSP-Minnesota to
bill customers for the actual cost of fuel used to generate
electricity at its plants and energy purchased from other
suppliers. Changes in capacity charges are not recovered through
the fuel clause. NSP-Minnesota’s electric wholesale
customers do not have a fuel clause provision in their
contracts. Instead, the contracts have an escalation factor.

Gas rate schedules for NSP-Minnesota include a
purchased gas adjustment (PGA) clause that provides for rate
adjustments for changes in the current unit cost of purchased
gas compared with the last costs included in rates. The PGA
factors in Minnesota are calculated for the current month based
on the estimated purchased gas costs for that month. The MPUC
has the authority to disallow certain costs if it finds the
utility was not prudent in its procurement activities.

NSP-Minnesota is required by Minnesota law to
spend a minimum of 2 percent of Minnesota electric revenue
and 0.5 percent of Minnesota gas revenue on conservation
improvement programs (CIP). These costs are recovered through an
annual recovery mechanism for electric and gas conservation and
energy management program expenditures. NSP-Minnesota is
required to request a new cost recovery level annually.

NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Wisconsin does not have an automatic electric
fuel adjustment clause for Wisconsin retail customers. Instead,
it has a procedure that compares actual monthly and anticipated
annual fuel costs with those costs that were included in the
latest retail electric rates. If the comparison results in a
difference outside a prescribed range, the PSCW may hold
hearings limited to fuel costs and revise rates (upward or
downward). Any revised rates would be effective until the next
rate case. The adjustment approved is calculated on an annual
basis, but applied prospectively. Most of NSP-Wisconsin’s
wholesale electric rate schedules provide for adjustments to
billings and revenues for changes in the cost of fuel and
purchased energy.



NSP-Wisconsin has a gas cost recovery mechanism
to recover the actual cost of natural gas.

NSP-Wisconsin’s gas and retail electric rate
schedules for Michigan customers include gas cost recovery
factors and power supply cost recovery factors, which are based
on 12-month projections. After each 12-month period, a
reconciliation is submitted whereby over-collections are
refunded and any under-collections are collected from the
customers over the subsequent 12-month period.

PSCo

PSCo has five adjustment clauses: the incentive
cost adjustment (ICA), the gas cost adjustment (GCA), the steam
cost adjustment (SCA), the demand side management cost
adjustment (DSMCA) and the qualifying facilities capacity
cost adjustment (QFCCA). These adjustment clauses allow certain
costs to be passed through to retail customers. PSCo is required
to file applications with the CPUC for approval of adjustment
mechanisms in advance of the proposed effective dates.

The ICA allows for an equal sharing between
customers and shareholders of certain fuel and energy cost
increases. PSCo, through its GCA, is allowed to recover its
actual costs of purchased gas. The GCA rate is revised annually
to coincide with changes in purchased gas costs. Purchased gas
costs and revenues received to recover gas costs are compared on
a monthly basis and differences are deferred. PSCo, through its
SCA, is allowed to recover the difference between its actual
cost of fuel and the amount of these costs recovered under its
base rates. The SCA rate is revised annually to coincide with
changes in fuel costs. The QFCCA provides for recovery of
purchased capacity costs from certain QF projects not otherwise
reflected in base electric rates.

The DSMCA clause currently permits PSCo to
recover DSM costs over five years while non-labor incremental
expenses and carrying costs associated with deferred DSM costs
are recovered on an annual basis. PSCo also has implemented a
low-income energy assistance program. The costs of this energy
conservation and weatherization program for low-income customers
are recovered through the DSMCA.

SPS

Fuel and purchased power costs are recoverable in
Texas through a fixed fuel factor, which is part of SPS’
rates. If it appears that SPS will materially over-recover or
under-recover these costs, the factor may be revised upon
application by SPS or action by the PUCT. The rule requires
refunding and surcharging under/over-recovery amounts, including
interest, when they exceed 4 percent of the utility’s
annual fuel and purchased power costs, as allowed by the PUCT,
if this condition is expected to continue. PUCT regulations
require periodic examination of SPS fuel and purchased power
costs, the efficiency of the use of such fuel and purchased
power, fuel acquisition and management policies and purchase
power commitments. Under the PUCT’s regulations, SPS is
required to file an application for the PUCT to retrospectively
review at least every three years the operations of SPS’
electric generation and fuel management activities.

The NMPRC regulations provide for a fuel and
purchased power cost adjustment clause for SPS’ New Mexico
retail jurisdiction. SPS files monthly and annual reports of its
fuel and purchased power costs with the NMPRC, which include the
current over/under fuel collection calculation, plus interest.
On December 17, 2001, SPS filed an application with the
NMPRC for authorization to replace its fixed annual fuel factor
with a monthly fuel factor. In January 2002, the NMPRC
authorized SPS to implement a monthly adjustment factor on an
interim basis beginning with the February 2002 billing cycle.

Cheyenne

All electric demand and purchased power costs are
recoverable through an energy adjustment clause. Differences in
costs incurred from costs recovered in rates are deferred and
recovered through prospective adjustments to rates. However,
rate changes for cost recovery require WPSC approval before
going into effect. Historically, customers have been provided
carrying costs on overcollected costs, but Cheyenne has not been
allowed to collect carrying charges for under recovered costs.



Pending Regulatory Matters

NSP-Minnesota

Electric Transmission Construction —

In December 2001, NSP-Minnesota filed
for certificates of need authorizing construction of various
high voltage transmission facilities to provide generator outlet
for up to 825 megawatts of wind generation. The projected
cost is approximately $130 million. The proposal is now in
hearings before an administrative law judge. The MPUC must issue
a decision before the end of 2002.

North Dakota Rate Case —

In October 2000, NSP-Minnesota filed a
request with the NDPSC to increase natural gas rates by
approximately 3.3 percent, or $1.4 million, annually.
In June 2001, the NDPSC approved an increase of approximately
$860,000 annually, effective July 13, 2001.

NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Wisconsin Electric Power Supply Rate
Request —

In May 2001,
NSP-Wisconsin filed an application with the PSCW requesting an
increase in Wisconsin retail electric rates due to significant
increases in power supply costs. This increase was necessary to
recover increases in fuel and purchased power costs from
wholesale suppliers who charge market-based prices. On
June 28, 2001, the PSCW approved an interim fuel cost
surcharge of $0.00374 per kilowatt-hour. On Oct. 18, 2001,
the PSCW issued a final order in the docket that replaced the
interim surcharge with a $0.00382 per kilowatt-hour increase in
base electric rates. The combination of the interim fuel
surcharge and the base rate increase increased
NSP-Wisconsin’s electric revenue by approximately
$5.6 million over the last six months of 2001.

NSP-Wisconsin General Rate Case —

On June 1, 2001, NSP-Wisconsin
filed its required biennial rate application with the PSCW
requesting no change in Wisconsin retail electric and gas base
rates. NSP-Wisconsin requested the PSCW approve its application
without hearing, pending completion of the Staff’s audit.
The PSCW issued a final order on Dec. 7, 2001 approving
NSP-Wisconsin’s application without hearing. As a result,
base rates in effect as of the end of 2001 will stay in effect
through the 2002-2003 biennium.

PSCo

2002 General Rate Case —

In May 2002, PSCo is expected to file
a general retail electric, gas and thermal energy base rate case
with the CPUC. This filing is required as part of the Xcel
Energy merger Stipulation and Agreement approved by the CPUC.
The case will include setting the electric energy recovery
mechanism, elimination of the QFCCA, new depreciation rates and
recovery of additional plant investment. The resulting change in
rates is expected to be effective Jan. 1, 2003.

2000 Gas Rate Case —

In July 2000, PSCo filed a retail rate
case with the CPUC requesting an annual increase in its gas
revenues of approximately $40 million. The request for a
rate increase reflects revenues for additional plant investment,
a 12.5 percent return on equity, new depreciation rates and
recovery of the dismantlement costs associated with the Leyden
Gas Storage facility. In February 2001, the CPUC granted an
increase in gas revenues of $14.2 million and authorized an
11.25 percent return on equity. The CPUC did not grant the
new depreciation rates proposed by PSCo, but rather granted new
depreciation rates proposed by the CPUC staff. The CPUC denied
recovery of the dismantlement costs associated with the Leyden
Gas Storage facility in this case since such costs had not yet
been incurred and recommended PSCo request recovery in a later
rate filing.

Pacific Northwest Power Market —

A complaint has been filed at the FERC
requesting that the agency set for investigation, pursuant to
Section 206 of the Federal Power Act, the justness and
reasonableness of the rates of wholesale sellers in the spot
markets in the Pacific Northwest, including PSCo. The FERC
decided to hold a preliminary evidentiary hearing to facilitate
development of a factual record on whether there may have been
unjust and unreasonable charges for spot market bilateral sales
in the Pacific Northwest for the period beginning Dec. 25,
2000 through June 20, 2001. Such hearing was held before an
administrative law judge of the FERC in August 2001. The
administrative law judge recommended that the FERC conclude that
the rates charged were not unjust and unreasonable, and
accordingly, that there should be no refunds. PSCo



believes that the findings should be upheld at
the FERC. However, the matter is still pending before the FERC,
and the ultimate outcome cannot be determined.

2002 Wholesale Sales Data
Investigation —

In February
2002, after the bankruptcy filing by Enron Corp., the FERC
initiated a fact-finding investigation into whether any entity,
including Enron, manipulated short-term prices in electric or
natural gas markets in the West or otherwise exercised undue
influence over wholesale prices in the West since January 2000.
PSCo and NRG made market-based sales during this period and are
included in the FERC investigation.

SPS

Fuel Recovery —

At least every three years, SPS is
required to file an application for the PUCT to retrospectively
review the operations of a utility’s electric generation
and fuel management activities. In June 2000, SPS filed an
application for the PUCT to retrospectively review the
operations of the utility’s electric generation and fuel
management activities. In this application, SPS filed its
reconciliation for electric generation and fuel management
activities totaling approximately $419 million, for the
period from January 1998 through December 1999. SPS was granted
full recovery of these costs by the PUCT in March 2001.

SPS Texas Retail Fuel Factor and Fuel
Surcharge Application —

SPS
has filed an application with the PUCT to increase its fixed
fuel factor and to surcharge past fuel cost under-recoveries of
approximately $47 million for the months October 2000
through January 2001. Hearings were held in May 2001. In October
2001, the PUCT issued a final decision granting SPS’
request to account for wholesale firm sales through the base
ratemaking process and to continue its practice of revenue
crediting margins from off-system sales, or wholesale non-firm
sales. Furthermore, SPS’ request to revise its voltage
level fuel factors was granted.

In May 2001, SPS filed an application with the
PUCT seeking authority to surcharge approximately
$27 million in additional fuel under-recoveries and related
interest accrued during February and March 2001. In July 2001,
SPS filed a motion to abate the proceeding until September 2001
since the market price of natural gas unexpectedly and
significantly decreased. In September 2001, SPS determined that
its cumulative fuel under-collections were below the PUCT
materiality threshold. As a result of this determination, SPS
withdrew its application and moved to dismiss this proceeding.
The PUCT dismissed this proceeding in September 2001.

In November 2001, SPS filed a motion with the
PUCT requesting the termination of all currently approved
surcharges in December 2001. SPS made this request to prevent
any over-collection of historical under-recoveries due to the
rapid and unforeseen decreases in the price of natural gas. This
request was granted by the PUCT.

In December 2001, SPS submitted an application
seeking authority to immediately revise its fixed fuel factors
on an interim basis to prevent any over-collection of historical
under-recoveries due to the rapid and unforeseen decreases in
the price of natural gas. SPS also requested that it be allowed
to file a supplemental application to revise its fixed fuel
factors. On Dec. 19, 2001, the Administrative Law Judge
issued an order approving the interim fixed fuel factors and
SPS’ request to file a supplemental application. SPS’
supplemental application was filed in February 2001 and on
March 25, 2002, a unanimous stipulation was filed to reduce
SPS’ fixed fuel factor to reflect projected lower fuel
costs for running the SPS’ power plants.

SPS Texas Transition to Competition Cost
Recovery Application —

In
December 2001, SPS filed an application with the PUCT to recover
$20.3 million in costs from the Texas retail customers
associated with the transition to competition. The filing was
amended in March 2002 to reduce the recoverable costs by
$7.3 million, which was associated with over-earnings
recognized for the 1999 annual report. The PUCT approved SPS
using the 1999 annual report over-earnings to offset the claims
for reimbursement of transition to competition costs. This has
reduced the requested net collection in Texas to
$13 million. SPS is requesting recovery to begin July 2002.
Final approval is pending.

SPS New Mexico Fuel Factor —

In October 2000, SPS filed an
unopposed motion with the NMPRC, seeking to change the date for
the implementation of its next fixed annual fuel factor. SPS was
approximately $12.8 million under-collected in fuel and
purchased power costs through August 2000 and projected that
these



under-collections would continue based on recent
increases in natural gas costs. In October 2000, the NMPRC
approved SPS’ revised fixed annual fuel factor to be
effective in the November 2000 billing cycle. In March 2001, SPS
filed an unopposed motion with the NMPRC, seeking to change the
date for the implementation of its next fixed annual fuel
factor. SPS was estimating that it would be $33 million
under-collected in fuel and purchased power costs through March
2001 and projected that these under-collections would continue
based on recent increases in natural gas costs. In March 2001,
the NMPRC approved SPS’ revised fixed annual fuel factor to
be effective in the April 2001 billing cycle.

On Dec. 17, 2001, SPS filed an application
with the NMPRC seeking approval of continued use of its fuel and
purchased power cost adjustment using a monthly adjustment
factor, authorization to implement the proposed monthly factor
on an interim basis and approval of the reconciliation of its
fuel and purchase power adjustment clause collections for the
period October 1999 through September 2001. In January 2002, the
NMPRC authorized SPS to implement a monthly adjustment factor on
an interim basis beginning with the February 2002 billing cycle.
SPS’ continuation and reconciliation portion of the file is
pending before the NMPRC.

Cheyenne

Cheyenne Purchased Power Costs —

In March 2001, Cheyenne requested an
increase in retail electric rates to provide for recovery of
increasing power costs. As a result of the significant increase
in electric energy costs since late February 2001, Cheyenne
under recovered its costs under its electric cost adjustment
(ECA) mechanism. On May 25, 2001, the WPSC approved a
Stipulation Agreement between Cheyenne and intervenors in
connection with a proposed increase in rates charged to
Cheyenne’s retail customers to recover increased power
costs.

The Stipulation provides for an ECA rate
structure with a fixed energy supply rate for Cheyenne’s
customers through 2003; the continuation of the ECA with certain
modifications, including the amortization through December 2005
of unrecovered costs incurred during 2001 up to the agreed upon
fixed supply rates; and an agreement that Cheyenne’s energy
supply needs will be provided, in whole or in part, by PSCo in
accordance with wholesale tariff rates to be approved by the
FERC. The estimated retail rate increases under the Stipulation
would provide recovery of an additional $18 million (in
comparison to prior rate levels) through the remainder of 2001
and a total of $28 million for each of the years 2002 and
2003. In 2004 and 2005, Cheyenne will return to requesting
recovery of its actual costs incurred plus the outstanding
balance of any deferral from earlier years. New cost levels
consistent with the Stipulation Agreement has been reflected in
Cheyenne’s expenses, and in deferred costs based on current
ECA recovery levels, with an effective date of June 1,
2001, and retroactive adjustments back to the date of the
increase in costs on Feb. 25, 2001.

Viking

On Dec. 28, 2001, Viking filed a general
rate increase proposal with the FERC. Viking requested an
increase in its annual revenues of approximately
$12 million (46 percent), effective July 1, 2002,
to reflect increased costs related to its 1999 expansion
project, increased depreciation expenses, and other factors. On
Jan. 30, 2002, FERC issued an order accepting the proposed
rate increase for filing, setting the case for hearing, and
allowing the increased rates to go into effect subject to refund.

For more information on regulatory matters, see
Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.

ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS

Competition and Industry
Restructuring

Retail competition and the unbundling of
regulated energy service could have a significant financial
impact on Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries, due to an impairment
of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins and
increased costs of capital. The total impacts of restructuring
may have a significant financial impact on the financial
position, results of operations and cash flows of Xcel Energy.
Xcel Energy and its



utility subsidiaries cannot predict when they
will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can
they predict the impacts of such changes on their financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. Xcel Energy
believes that the prices its utility subsidiaries charge for
electricity and the quality and reliability of their service
currently place them in a position to compete effectively in the
energy market.

Retail Business Competition —

The retail electric business faces
increasing competition as industrial and large commercial
customers have some ability to own or operate facilities to
generate their own electric energy. In addition, customers may
have the option of substituting other fuels, such as natural gas
for heating, cooling and manufacturing purposes, or the option
of relocating their facilities to a lower cost environment.
While each of Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries face these
challenges, these subsidiaries believe their rates are
competitive with currently available alternatives. Xcel
Energy’s utility subsidiaries are taking actions to lower
operating costs and are working with their customers to analyze
energy efficiency, load management and cogeneration in order to
better position Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries to more
effectively operate in a competitive environment.

Wholesale Business Competition —

The wholesale electric business faces
increasing competition in the supply of bulk power, due to
federal and state initiatives to provide open access to utility
transmission systems. Under current FERC rules, utilities are
required to provide wholesale open-access transmission services
and to unbundle wholesale merchant and transmission operations.
Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries are operating under a
joint tariff in compliance with these rules. To date, these
provisions have not had a material impact on the operations of
Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries.

Utility Industry Changes and
Restructuring

— The
structure of the electric and natural gas utility industry
continues to change. Merger and acquisition activity over the
past few years has been significant as utilities combine to
capture economies of scale or establish a strategic niche in
preparing for the future. Some regulated utilities are divesting
generation assets. All utilities are required to provide
nondiscriminatory access to the use of their transmission
systems.

Some states have begun to allow retail customers
to choose their electricity supplier, and many other states are
considering retail access proposals. However, the experience of
the state of California in instituting competition, as well as
the bankruptcy filing of Enron, have caused delays in industry
restructuring.

Major issues that must be addressed include
mitigating market power, divestiture of generation capacity,
transmission constraints, legal separation, refinancing of
securities, modification of mortgage indentures, implementation
of procedures to govern affiliate transactions, investments in
information technology and the pricing of unbundled services,
all of which have significant financial implications. Xcel
Energy cannot predict the outcome of restructuring proceedings
in the electric utility jurisdictions it serves at this time.
The resolution of these matters may have a significant impact on
the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of
Xcel Energy. For more information on the delay of restructuring
for SPS in Texas and New Mexico, see Note 12 to the
Financial Statements under Item 8.

FERC Restructuring —

During 2001 and early 2002, the FERC
issued several industry-wide orders impacting (or potentially
impacting) the Xcel Energy operating companies and NRG. In
addition, the Xcel Energy utility subsidiaries submitted
proposals to the FERC that could impact future operations, costs
and revenues.

Section 206 Investigation Against All
Wholesale Electric Sellers —

In November 2001, the FERC issued an
order under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act initiating
a “generic” investigation proceeding against all
jurisdictional electric suppliers making sales in interstate
commerce at market based rates. NSP-Minnesota, PSCo, SPS and
certain NRG affiliates had previously received FERC
authorization to make wholesale sales at market based rates, and
have been engaged in such sales subject to rates on file at the
FERC. The order proposed that all wholesale electric sales at
market based rates conducted starting 60 days after
publication of the FERC order in the Federal Register would be
subject to refund conditioned on factors determined by the FERC.

Several parties filed requests for rehearing,
arguing the November 2001 order was vague and would require the
affected utilities to conditionally report future revenues and
earnings. In December 2001, FERC



issued a supplemental order delaying the
effective date of the subject to refund condition, but subject
to further investigation and proceedings. The FERC is expected
to rule in this matter in 2002.

Midwest ISO Begins Operations —

In compliance with a condition in the
January 2000 FERC order approving the Xcel Energy merger,
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin entered into agreements to join
the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc.
(Midwest ISO) in August 2000. In December 2000, the FERC
approved the Midwest ISO as the first approved regional
transmission organization (RTO) in the U.S., pursuant to
FERC Order 2000. On Feb. 1, 2002, the Midwest ISO began
interim operations, including regional transmission tariff
administration services for the NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin
electric transmission systems. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin
have received all required regulatory approvals to transfer
functional control of their high voltage (100 kV and above)
transmission systems to the Midwest ISO when the Midwest ISO is
fully operational, expected later in 2002. The Midwest ISO will
then control the operations of these facilities and the
facilities of neighboring electric utilities.

In October 2001, the FERC issued an order in the
separate proceeding to establish the initial Midwest ISO
regional transmission tariff rates, ruling that all transmission
services (with limited exceptions) in the Midwest ISO region
must be subject to the Midwest ISO regional tariff and
administrative surcharges to prevent discrimination between
wholesale transmission service users. The FERC order
unilaterally modified the agreement with the Midwest ISO signed
in August 2000. The FERC order is expected to increase wholesale
transmission costs to NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin by up to
$8 million per year prospectively.

TRANSLink Transmission Company LLC —

In September 2001, the Xcel Energy
operating companies joined a proposal with several other
electric utilities in the U.S. Mid-continent region to form
TRANSLink Transmission Company LLC (TRANSLink), an independent
transmission company (ITC) which would own and/or operate
electric high voltage transmission facilities within a
FERC-approved regional transmission organization (RTO).
Initially, the applicants propose that the high voltage
transmission systems of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin be under
the functional control of TRANSLink under an operating agreement
between the utilities and TRANSLink, which would then be a
member of the Midwest ISO RTO. The electric transmission
facilities of SPS and PSCo would also be operated by TRANSLink,
but would not initially be part of an RTO because no
FERC-approved RTO is operational in the southwestern or western
United States at this time.

TRANSLink would pay the Xcel Energy operating
companies a fee for use of their transmission systems,
determined on a regulated cost of service basis, and would
collect its administrative costs through transmission rate
surcharges. The TRANSLink participants argue that RTO
participation through the TRANSLink ITC would comply with FERC
Order 2000 at a lower cost than RTO participation as vertically
integrated utilities. The TRANSLink proposal is now pending FERC
approval. Several state approvals would also be required to
implement the proposal. Subject to receipt of required
regulatory approvals, TRANSLink could be operational by year end
2002.

Supreme Court Decision on Appeals of FERC
Order No. 888 —

On
March 4, 2001, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the
FERC’s rulings on Order No. 888 dealing with federal
jurisdiction over retail transmission service. The court
rejected appeals by nine states, lead by New York, which argued
that the FERC had gone too far in asserting jurisdiction over
unbundled retail transmission, and by Enron, which argued that
the FERC should have asserted jurisdiction over all
transmission, including bundled retail transmission service. The
court ruled the FERC has broad authority over all transmission
service in interstate commerce and wholesale sales in interstate
commerce.

Standards of Conduct
Rulemaking

— In October
2001, the FERC issued proposed rules which would substantially
increase the “functional separation” requirements
under existing FERC rules (Orders No. 497 and 889) between
the regulated electric and natural gas transmission functions of
the Xcel Energy operating companies and Viking Gas, and the
wholesale electric and natural gas marketing functions of PSCo,
NSP-Minnesota, NRG and e prime. The proposed rules, if adopted,
would require substantially increased functional separation,
causing a loss of integration efficiencies and thus higher
costs. In December 2001, Xcel Energy and



numerous other parties filed comments opposing
the proposed rules. The FERC is expected to act in the
rulemaking in 2002.

Standard Market Design Changes
Planned

— The FERC has
initiated a rulemaking proceeding into modifications to the
“wholesale market design” adopted when the FERC
ordered all jurisdictional electric utilities to begin providing
open access electric transmission service in 1996 with Order
No. 888. The FERC is expected to adopt new standard market
design rules through a notice and comment rulemaking proceeding
later in 2002. The new market design rules, if adopted, are
expected to materially impact future wholesale electric sales
and transmission services (and perhaps revenues) for the Xcel
Energy utility subsidiaries, NRG and RTOs.

NSP-Minnesota

Minnesota
Restructuring

— In 2001, the
Legislature passed an energy security bill that includes
provisions that are intended to streamline the siting process of
new generation and transmission facilities. It also includes
voluntary benchmarks for achieving renewable energy as a portion
of the utility supply portfolio. There is unlikely to be any
further action on restructuring in 2002. Although the Minnesota
Chamber still supports restructuring, leaders have indicated a
“let’s go slow” approach to restructuring given
the California experience.

North Dakota
Restructuring

— In 1997, the
North Dakota Legislature established by statute, an Electric
Utility Competition Committee (EUC). The EUC was given six years
to perform its research and submit its final report on
restructuring, competition, and service territory reforms. To
date, the committee has focused on the study of the state’s
current tax treatment of the electric utility industry,
primarily in the transmission and distribution functions. The
report presented to the legislative council in early 2001 did
not include recommendations to change the current tax structure.
However, the legislature, without recommendation from the EUC,
overhauled the application of the coal severance and coal
conversion taxes primarily to improve the competitive status of
North Dakota lignite for generation. During 2002, the committee
continued its review and will present legislation to the
legislative assembly in January 2003.

In December 2000, the NDPSC approved Xcel
Energy’s “PLUS” performance-based regulation
proposal, effective January 2001 for its electric operations in
the state. The plan established operating and service
performance standards in the areas of system reliability,
customer satisfaction, price and worker safety. The
company’s performance determines the range of allowed
return on equity for its North Dakota electric operations. The
plan will generate refunds or surcharges when earnings fall
outside of the allowed return on equity range. Impacts of the
plan on 2001 business will be reported to the NDPSC in the
second quarter of 2002. The PLUS Plan will remain in effect
through 2005.

NSP-Wisconsin

Wisconsin
Restructuring

— The state of
Wisconsin continued its incremental approach to industry
restructuring by passing legislation in 2001 that reduced the
wholesale gross receipts tax on the sale of electricity by
50 percent starting in 2003. This legislation eliminates
the double taxation on wholesale sales from non-utility
generators, and should encourage the development of merchant
plants by making sales from independent power producers more
competitive. Additional legislation was passed that enables
regulated utilities to enter into leased generation contracts
with unregulated generation affiliates. The new legislation
provides utilities a new financing mechanism and option to meet
their customers’ energy needs. However, while
industry-restructuring changes continue in Wisconsin, the
movement towards retail customer choice has slowed considerably.

Michigan
Restructuring

— In June
2000, Michigan’s “Customer Choice and Electricity
Reliability Act,” became law. This law requires
NSP-Wisconsin to provide its Michigan customers the opportunity
to select an alternative electric energy supplier, beginning on
Jan. 1, 2002. NSP-Wisconsin has successfully implemented
internal procedures, and has obtained MPSC approval for these
procedures to meet the Jan. 1, 2002 deadline. Key elements
of internal procedures include the development of retail open
access tariffs and unbundled billing, environmental and fuel
disclosure information, and a code of conduct compliance plan.
Outstanding issues to be addressed by the MPSC include
finalizing anti-slamming/ anti-cramming consumer protection



provisions, and the development of regulations
formalizing distribution reliability and performance standards.
To date, none of the NSP-Wisconsin retail electric customers
have converted to a competing supplier.

PSCo

Colorado
Restructuring

— During 1998,
a bill was passed in Colorado that established an advisory panel
to conduct an evaluation of electric industry restructuring and
customer choice. During 1999, this panel concluded that Colorado
would not significantly benefit from opening its markets to
retail competition. There was no legislative action with respect
to restructuring in Colorado during the 2000 or 2001 legislative
sessions and none is anticipated during 2002.

SPS

New Mexico Restructuring —

In March 2001, the state of New Mexico
enacted legislation that delayed customer choice until 2007 and
amended the Electric Utility Restructuring Act of 1999. SPS has
requested recovery of its costs incurred to prepare for customer
choice in New Mexico of approximately $5.1 million. A
decision on this and other matters is pending before the NMPRC.
SPS expects to receive regulatory recovery of these costs
through a rate rider in the next New Mexico rate case filed.

Texas Restructuring —

In June 2001, the Governor of Texas
signed legislation postponing the deregulation and restructuring
of SPS until 2007. This legislation amended the 1999
legislation, Senate Bill No. 7 (SB-7), which provided for
retail electric competition beginning January 2002. Under the
newly-adopted legislation, prior PUCT orders issued in
connection with the restructuring of SPS will be considered null
and void. SPS’ restructuring and rate unbundling
proceedings in Texas have been terminated. In addition, under
the new legislation, SPS is entitled to recover all reasonable
and necessary expenditures made or incurred before Sept. 1,
2001, to comply with SB-7. SPS has filed an application with the
PUCT, requesting a rate rider to recover these costs incurred
preparing for customer choice of approximately
$20.3 million.

For more information on restructuring in Texas
and New Mexico, see Note 12 to the Financial Statements
under Item 8.

Kansas
Restructuring

— During the
2001 legislative session, several restructuring-related bills
were introduced for consideration by the state legislature, but
to date, there is no restructuring mandate in Kansas.

Oklahoma
Restructuring

— The Electric
Restructuring Act of 1997 was enacted in Oklahoma during 1997.
This legislation directed a series of studies to define the
orderly transition to consumer choice of electric energy
supplier by July 1, 2002. In 2001, Senate Bill 440 was
signed into law to formally delay electric restructuring until
restructuring issues could be studied further and new enabling
legislation could be enacted. Senate Bill 440 established the
Electric Restructuring Advisory Committee and directed the
committee to complete an interim report on the state’s
transmission infrastructure needs by Dec. 31, 2001. The
Advisory Committee submitted this report to the Governor and
Legislature on Dec. 31, 2001.

Other

Wyoming
Restructuring

— There were
no electric industry restructuring legislation proposals
introduced in the Legislature during 2000 or 2001. No action
with respect to electric restructuring is anticipated in 2002.

Capacity and Demand

Assuming normal weather during 2002, system peak
demand and the net dependable system capacity for Xcel
Energy’s electric utility subsidiaries are projected below.
The electric production and transmission system



of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin are managed as
an integrated system (referred to as the NSP System). The system
peak demand for each of the last three years and the forecast
for 2002 are listed below.

The peak demand for the NSP System, PSCo and SPS
all typically occur in the summer. The 2001 system peak demand
for the NSP System occurred on Aug. 6, 2001. The 2001
system peak demand for PSCo occurred on July 30, 2001. The
2001 system peak demand for SPS occurred on July 26, 2001.

Energy Sources

Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries expect to
use the following resources to meet their net dependable system
capacity requirements: 1) Xcel Energy’s electric
generating stations, 2) purchases from other utilities,
independent power producers and power marketers,
3) demand-side management options and 4) phased
expansion of existing generation at select power plants.

Purchased
Power

Xcel Energy’s electric utility subsidiaries
have contractual arrangements to purchase power from other
utilities and nonregulated energy suppliers. Capacity, typically
measured in kilowatts or megawatts, is the measure of the rate
at which a particular generating source produces electricity.
Energy, typically measured in kilowatt-hours or megawatt-hours,
is a measure of the amount of electricity produced from a
particular generating source over a period of time. Purchase
power contracts typically provide for a charge for the capacity
from a particular generating source and a charge for the
associated energy actually purchased from such generating source.

The utility subsidiaries of Xcel Energy also make
short-term and non-firm purchases to replace generation from
company owned units that is unavailable due to maintenance and
unplanned outages, to provide each utility’s reserve
obligation, to obtain energy at a lower cost than that which
could be produced by other resource options, including company
owned generation and/or long-term purchase power contracts, and
for various other operating requirements.

NSP System
Resource Plan

In August 2001, the MPUC approved with
modifications to NSP-Minnesota’s Resource Plan for 2000 to
2015. The plan described how Xcel Energy intends to meet the
energy needs of the NSP System. The plan contained conservation
programs to reduce NSP System’s peak demand and conserve
overall electricity use, an approximate schedule of power
purchase solicitations to meet increasing demand and programs
and plans to maintain the reliable operation of existing
resources. In summary, the plan, which the MPUC approved:



The resource plan proposes to satisfy the NSP
System resource needs through the following energy source
options:

PSCo Resource
Plan

PSCo estimates it will purchase approximately
28 percent of its total electric system energy input for
2002. Approximately 45 percent of the total system capacity for
the summer 2002 system peak demand for PSCo will be provided by
purchased power.

To meet the demand and energy needs of the
rapidly growing economy in Colorado, PSCo completed a
solicitation process that will add approximately 1,800 megawatts
of resources to its system over the 2002-2005 time period.

Purchased
Transmission Services

Xcel Energy’s electric utility subsidiaries
have contractual arrangements with regional transmission service
providers to deliver power and energy to the subsidiaries’
native load customers (retail and wholesale load obligations
with terms of more than one year). Point-to-point transmission
services typically include a charge for the specific amount of
transmission capacity being reserved, although some agreements
may base charges on the amount of metered energy delivered.
Network transmission services include a charge for the metered
demand at the delivery point at the time of the provider’s
monthly transmission system peak, usually calculated as a
12-month rolling average.

Fuel Supply and Costs

The following tables present the delivered cost
per million British thermal units (MMbtu) of each significant
category of fuel consumed for electric generation, the
percentage of total fuel requirements represented by each
category of fuel and the total weighted average cost of all
fuels during such years.

*

Includes refuse-derived fuel and wood



NSP-Minnesota
and NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin normally maintain
between 30 and 45 days of coal inventory at each plant
site. Estimated coal requirements at NSP-Minnesota’s major
coal-fired generating plants are approximately 12 million
tons per year. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have long-term
contracts providing for the delivery of up to 100 percent
of 2002 coal requirements and up to 85 percent of their
2003 requirements. Coal delivery may be subject to short-term
interruptions or reductions due to transportation problems,
weather and availability of equipment.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin expect that all
of the coal they burn in 2002 will have a sulfur content of less
than 1 percent. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have
contracts for a maximum of 22 million tons of low-sulfur
coal for the next two years. The contracts are with two Montana
coal suppliers and three Wyoming suppliers with expiration dates
ranging between 2002 and 2005. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin
could purchase approximately 7 percent of their coal
requirements in the spot market in 2002 and 35 percent of
coal requirements in 2003 if spot prices are more favorable than
contracted prices.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin’s current
fuel oil inventory is adequate and they have access to
additional spot purchase supplies to meet anticipated 2002
requirements. Additional oil may be obtained through spot
purchases.

To operate NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear
generating plants, NSP-Minnesota secures contracts for uranium
concentrates, uranium conversion, uranium enrichment and fuel
fabrication. The contract strategy involves a portfolio of spot
purchases and medium- and long-term contracts for uranium,
conversion and enrichment. Current contracts are flexible and
cover 85 percent of uranium, conversion and enrichment
requirements through the year 2005. These contracts expire at
varying times between 2002 and 2006. The overlapping nature of
contract commitments will allow NSP-Minnesota to maintain
50 percent to 100 percent coverage beyond 2002.
NSP-Minnesota expects sufficient uranium, conversion and
enrichment to be available for the total fuel requirements of
its nuclear generating plants. Fuel fabrication is
100 percent committed through 2006 and 30 percent
committed through 2010.

PSCo

PSCo’s primary fuel for its steam electric
generating stations is low-sulfur western coal. PSCo’s coal
requirements are purchased primarily under long-term contracts
with suppliers operating in Colorado and Wyoming. During 2001,
PSCo’s coal requirements for existing plants were
approximately 10.5 million tons, a substantial portion of
which was supplied pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Coal
supply inventories at Dec. 31, 2001, were approximately
36 days usage, based on the average burn rate for all of
PSCo’s coal-fired plants.

PSCo operates the Hayden Station, and has partial
ownership in the Craig Station, in Colorado. All of Hayden
Station’s coal requirements are supplied under a long-term
agreement. Approximately 75 percent of PSCo’s Craig
Station coal requirements are supplied under two long-term
agreements. Any remaining Craig Station requirements for PSCo
are supplied through spot coal purchases.

PSCo has secured more than 75 percent of
Cameo Station’s coal requirements for 2002. Any remaining
requirements may be purchased from this contract or the spot
market. PSCo has contracted for coal supplies to supply
approximately 95 percent of the Cherokee and Valmont
Stations’ projected requirements in 2002.

PSCo has long-term coal supply agreements for the
Pawnee and Comanche Stations’ projected requirements. Under
the long-term agreements, the supplier has dedicated specific
coal reserves at the



contractually defined mines to meet the contract
quantity obligations. In addition, PSCo has a coal supply
agreement to supply approximately 75 percent of Arapahoe
Station’s projected requirements for 2002. Any remaining
Arapahoe Station requirements will be procured through spot
purchases.

PSCo uses both firm and interruptible natural gas
and standby oil in combustion turbines and certain boilers.
Natural gas supplies for PSCo’s power plants are procured
under short and intermediate-term contracts to provide an
adequate supply of fuel.

SPS

SPS purchases all of its coal requirements for
Harrington and Tolk electric generating stations from TUCO Inc.,
in the form of crushed, ready-to-burn coal delivered to
SPS’ plant bunkers. For the Harrington station the coal
supply contract expires in 2016 and the coal-handling agreement
expires in 2004. For the Tolk station, the coal supply contract
expires in 2017 and the coal-handling agreement expires in 2005.
At Dec. 31, 2001, coal inventories at the Harrington and
Tolk sites were approximately 41 and 49 days supply,
respectively. TUCO has a long-term coal supply agreement to
supply approximately 98 percent of Harrington’s
projected requirements in 2002. TUCO has long-term contracts for
supply of coal in sufficient quantities to meet the primary
needs of the Tolk station.

SPS has a number of short and intermediate
contracts with natural gas suppliers operating in gas fields
with long life expectancies in or near its service area. SPS
also utilizes firm and interruptible transportation to minimize
fuel costs during volatile market conditions and to provide
reliability of supply. SPS maintains sufficient gas supplies
under short and intermediate-term contracts to meet all power
plant requirements; however, due to flexible contract terms,
approximately 57 percent of SPS’ gas requirements
during 2001 were purchased under spot agreements.

Trading Operations

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries conduct various
trading operations including the purchase and sale of electric
capacity and energy. Xcel Energy uses these trading operations
to capture arbitrage opportunities created by regional pricing
differentials, supply and demand imbalances, and changes in fuel
prices. In addition, Xcel Energy participates in short-term
energy or capacity sales at the utility subsidiaries.
Participation in short-term wholesale energy markets provides
market intelligence and information that supports the energy
management of each utility subsidiary. Optimizing the utility
subsidiaries’ physical assets by engaging in short-term
sales and purchase commitments results in lowering the cost of
supply for our native customers and the capturing of additional
margins from non-traditional customers. Xcel Energy reduces
commodity price and credit risks by using physical and financial
instruments, to minimize commodity price and credit risk and
hedge supplies and purchases.

Nuclear Power Operations and Waste
Disposal

NSP-Minnesota owns two nuclear generating plants:
the Monticello plant and the Prairie Island plant. Monticello
began operation in 1971 and is licensed to operate until 2010.
Prairie Island units 1 and 2 began operation in 1973 and 1974
and are licensed to operate until 2013 and 2014, respectively.

Nuclear power plant operation produces gaseous,
liquid and solid radioactive wastes. The discharge and handling
of such wastes are controlled by federal regulation. High-level
radioactive waste includes used nuclear fuel. Low-level
radioactive waste consists primarily of demineralizer resins,
paper, protective clothing, rags, tools and equipment that has
become contaminated through use in the plant.

Federal law places responsibility on each state
for disposal of its low-level radioactive waste. Low-level
radioactive waste from NSP-Minnesota’s Monticello and
Prairie Island nuclear plants is currently disposed of at the
Barnwell facility, located in South Carolina (all classes of
low-level waste), and the Clive facility, located in Utah (class
A low-level waste only). Chem Nuclear is the owner and operator
of the Barnwell facility, which has been given authorization by
South Carolina to accept low-level radioactive waste from out of
state. Envirocare, Inc. operates the Clive facility.
NSP-Minnesota and Barnwell currently operate under an



annual contract, while NSP-Minnesota uses the
Envirocare facility through various low-level waste processors.
NSP-Minnesota has low-level storage capacity available on-site
at Prairie Island and Monticello that would allow both plants to
continue to operate until the end of their licensed life, if
off-site low-level disposal facilities were not available to
NSP-Minnesota.

The federal government has the responsibility to
dispose of, or permanently store, domestic spent nuclear fuel
and other high-level radioactive wastes. The Nuclear Waste
Policy Act requires the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to
implement a program for nuclear waste management. This includes
the siting, licensing, construction and operation of a
repository for domestically produced spent nuclear fuel from
civilian nuclear power reactors and other high-level radioactive
wastes at a permanent storage or disposal facility by 1998. None
of NSP-Minnesota’s spent nuclear fuel has yet been accepted
by the DOE for disposal. See Item 3 — Legal
Proceedings and Note 16 to the Financial Statements under
Item 8 for further discussion of this matter.

NSP-Minnesota has on-site storage for spent
nuclear fuel at its Monticello and Prairie Island nuclear
plants. NSP-Minnesota has expanded the used nuclear fuel storage
facilities at its Monticello plant by replacement of the racks
in the storage pool and by shipping 1,058 used fuel assemblies
to a General Electric storage facility. The Monticello plant is
expected to have sufficient pool storage capacity to the end of
its current operating license in 2010.

The Prairie Island spent fuel pool has undergone
two storage rack replacements. The on-site storage pool for
spent nuclear fuel at Prairie Island was nearly filled and
adequate space was no longer available. In 1994, a Minnesota law
was enacted authorizing NSP-Minnesota to install 17 spent fuel
casks for storage of spent nuclear fuel at Prairie Island.
NSP-Minnesota has determined 17 casks will allow facility
operation until 2007. As of Dec. 31, 2001, 14 storage
casks were loaded and stored on the Prairie Island nuclear
generating plant site. The Minnesota Legislature established
several energy resource requirements and other commitments for
NSP-Minnesota to obtain the Prairie Island temporary nuclear
fuel storage facility approval. NSP-Minnesota has implemented
programs to meet the legislative commitments.

NSP-Minnesota is part of a consortium of private
parties working to establish a private facility for interim
storage of spent nuclear fuel. In 1997, Private Fuel Storage LLC
(PFS) filed a license application with the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission (NRC) for a national temporary
storage site for spent nuclear fuel. The PFS will undertake the
development, licensing, construction and operation of a storage
facility on the Skull Valley Indian Reservation in Utah. The NRC
license review process consists of formal evidentiary hearings
and opportunity for public input. Storage cask certification
efforts are continuing, with one cask vendor on track to meet
the project goals. The interim used fuel storage facility could
be operational and able to accept the first shipment of spent
nuclear fuel by 2004. However, due to uncertainty regarding
regulatory and governmental approvals, it is possible that this
interim storage may be delayed or not available at all.

In February 2001, NSP-Minnesota signed a contract
with Steam Generating Team Ltd. to perform engineering and
construction services for the installation of replacement
generators at the Prairie Island nuclear power plant.
NSP-Minnesota is evaluating the economics of replacing two
28-year-old steam generators on unit 1 at the plant.
NSP-Minnesota is taking steps to preserve the replacement option
for as early as 2004. The total cost of replacing the steam
generators is estimated to be approximately $132 million.

The NRC has issued a number of regulations,
bulletins and orders that require analyses, modification and
additional equipment at commercial nuclear power plants. The NRC
is engaged in various ongoing studies and rulemaking activities
that may impose additional requirements upon commercial nuclear
power plants. Management is unable to predict any new
requirements or their impact on NSP-Minnesota’s facilities
and operations.

Nuclear
Management Company (NMC)

During 1999, NSP-Minnesota, Wisconsin Electric
Power Co., Wisconsin Public Service Corp. and Alliant Energy
established the NMC. Consumers Power joined the NMC during 2000,
and transferred operating authority for the Palisades nuclear
plant to the NMC in 2001. The five affiliated companies own



eight nuclear units on six sites, with total
generation capacity exceeding 4,500 megawatts. Xcel Energy is
currently a 20 percent owner of the NMC.

The NRC has approved requests by the NMC’s
affiliated utilities to transfer operating authority for their
nuclear plants to the NMC, formally establishing the NMC as an
operating company. The NMC manages the operations and
maintenance at the plants, and is responsible for physical
security. NMC responsibilities also include oversight of on-site
dry storage facilities for used nuclear fuel at the Prairie
Island nuclear plant. Utility plant owners, including Xcel
Energy, continue to own the plants, control all energy produced
by the plants and retain responsibility for nuclear liability
insurance and decommissioning costs. Existing personnel continue
to provide day-to-day plant operations, with the additional
benefit of sharing ideas and operating experience from all
NMC-operated plants for improved safety, reliability and
operational performance.

For further discussion of nuclear issues, see
Note 15 and Note 16 to the Financial Statements under
Item 8.



Electric Operating Statistics (Xcel
Energy)

GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS

Competition and Industry
Restructuring

In the early 1990’s, the FERC issued Order
No. 636, which mandated the unbundling of interstate
natural gas pipeline services – sales, transportation,
storage and ancillary services. The implementation of Order
No. 636 has resulted in additional competitive pressure on
all local distribution companies (LDC) to keep gas supply
and transmission prices for their large customers competitive.
Customers have greater ability to buy gas directly from
suppliers and arrange their own pipeline and LDC transportation
service. Changes in regulatory policies and market forces have
shifted the industry from traditional bundled gas sales service
to an unbundled transportation and market based commodity
service.



The natural gas delivery or transportation
business has remained competitive as industrial and large
commercial customers have the ability to bypass the local gas
utility through the construction of interconnections directly
with, and the purchase of gas directly from, interstate
pipelines, thereby avoiding the delivery charges added by the
local gas utility.

As LDCs NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin and PSCo
provide unbundled transportation service to large customers.
Transportation service does not have an adverse effect on
earnings because the sales and transportation rates have been
designed to make them economically indifferent to whether gas
has been sold and transported or merely transported. However,
some transportation customers may have greater opportunities or
incentives to physically bypass the LDC distribution system.

PSCo has participated fully in state regulatory
and legislative efforts to develop a framework for extending
unbundling down to the residential and small commercial level.
PSCo supported a gas unbundling bill, passed by the Colorado
Legislature in 1999 that provides the CPUC the authority and
responsibility to approve voluntary unbundling plans submitted
by Colorado gas utilities in the future. PSCo has not filed a
plan to further unbundle its gas service to all residential and
commercial customers and continues to evaluate its business
opportunities for doing so.

Capability and Demand

NSP-Minnesota
and NSP-Wisconsin

Xcel Energy categorizes its gas supply
requirements as firm or interruptible (customers with an
alternate energy supply). The maximum daily sendout (firm and
interruptible) for the combined system of NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin was 722,992 MMBtu for 2001, which occurred on
Feb. 1, 2001.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin purchase gas from
independent suppliers. The gas is delivered under gas
transportation agreements with interstate pipelines. These
agreements provide for firm deliverable pipeline capacity of
approximately 640,000 MMBtu/day. In addition, NSP-Minnesota
and NSP-Wisconsin have contracted with providers of underground
natural gas storage services. Using storage reduces the need for
firm pipeline capacity. These storage agreements provide storage
for approximately 15 percent of annual and 23 percent of
peak daily, firm requirements of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin also own and
operate two liquified natural gas (LNG) plants with a storage
capacity of 2.5 Billion cubic feet (Bcf) equivalent and
four propane-air plants with a storage capacity of 1.4 Bcf
equivalent to help meet its peak requirements. These
peak-shaving facilities have production capacity equivalent to
246,000 MMBtu of natural gas per day, or approximately
32 percent of peak day firm requirements. LNG and
propane-air plants provide a cost-effective alternative to
annual fixed pipeline transportation charges to meet the peaks
caused by firm space heating demand on extremely cold winter
days and can be used to minimize daily imbalance fees on
interstate pipelines.

Gas utilities in Minnesota are required to file
for a change in gas supply contract levels to meet peak demand,
to redistribute demand costs among classes, or exchange one form
of demand for another. In October 2001, the MPUC approved
NSP’s 2000-2001 entitlement levels, which allow
NSP-Minnesota to recover the demand entitlement costs associated
with the increase in transportation and storage levels in its
monthly PGA. NSP-Minnesota’s filing for approval of its
2001-2002 entitlement levels is pending MPUC action.

PSCo and
Cheyenne

PSCo and Cheyenne project peak day gas supply
requirements for firm sales and backup transportation
(transportation customers contracting for firm supply backup) to
be approximately 1,690,000 mmBtu. In addition, firm
transportation customers hold 389,010 MMBtu of capacity without
supply backup. Total firm delivery obligations for PSCo and
Cheyenne are 2,079,560 MMBtu per day. The maximum daily
deliveries for both companies for 2001 (firm and interruptible
services) were 1,627,750 MMBtu on Feb. 8, 2001.

PSCo and Cheyenne purchase gas from independent
suppliers. The gas supplies are delivered to the respective
delivery systems through a combination of transportation
agreements with interstate pipelines and



deliveries by suppliers directly to each company.
These agreements provide for firm deliverable pipeline capacity
of approximately 1,220,000 MMBtu/day, which includes
797,000 MMBtu of supplies held under third-party underground
storage agreements. In addition, PSCo operates three
company-owned underground storage facilities, which provide
about 148,000 MMBtu of gas supplies on a peak day. The balance
of the quantities required to meet firm peak day sales
obligations are primarily purchased at the companies’ city
gate meter stations and a small amount received directly from
wellhead sources.

PSCo has received approval to close one if its
three storage facilities, Leyden Storage Field. The field’s
110,000 MMBtu peak day capacity was replaced with additional
third-party storage and transportation capacity.

PSCo is required by CPUC regulations to file a
gas purchase plan by June of each year projecting and describing
the quantities of gas supplies, upstream services and the costs
of those supplies and services for the period beginning
July 1 through June 30 of the following year. PSCo is
also required to file a gas purchase report by October of each
year reporting actual quantities and costs incurred for gas
supplies and upstream services for the 12-month period ending
the previous June 30.

Gas Supply and Costs

Xcel Energy’s gas utilities actively seek
gas supply, transportation and storage alternatives to yield a
diversified portfolio that provides increased flexibility,
decreased interruption and financial risk, and economical rates.
This diversification involves numerous domestic and Canadian
supply sources, with varied contract lengths.

The following table summarizes the average cost
per MMBtu of gas purchased for resale by Xcel Energy’s
regulated retail gas distribution business.

The cost of natural gas supply, transportation
service and storage service is recovered through various cost
recovery adjustment mechanisms.

NSP-Minnesota
and NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have firm gas
transportation contracts with several pipelines, which expire in
various years from 2002 through 2014. Approximately
80 percent of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin’s retail
gas customers are served from the Northern Natural pipeline
system.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have certain gas
supply and transportation agreements that include obligations
for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of gas or
to make payments in lieu of delivery. At Dec. 31, 2001,
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin were committed to approximately
$173.8 million in such obligations under these contracts, which
expire in various years from 2002 through 2014. NSP-Minnesota
and NSP-Wisconsin have negotiated market out clauses in their
new supply agreements, which reduce purchase obligations if
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin no longer provide merchant gas
service.

In addition to fixed transportation charge
obligations, NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have entered into
firm gas supply agreements that provide for the payment of
monthly or annual reservation charges irrespective of the volume
of gas purchased. The total annual obligation is approximately
$12 million. These agreements allow NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin to purchase natural gas at a high load factor at
rates below the prevailing market price, reducing the total cost
per MMBtu.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin purchase firm gas
supply from approximately 30 domestic and Canadian
suppliers under contracts with durations of one year to
10 years. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin purchase no more
than 20 percent of their total daily supply from any single
supplier. This diversity



of suppliers and contract lengths allows
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin to maintain competition from
suppliers and minimize supply costs.

PSCo and
Cheyenne

PSCo and Cheyenne have certain gas supply and
transportation agreements that include obligations for the
purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of gas or to make
payments in lieu of delivery. At Dec. 31, 2001, PSCo and
Cheyenne were committed to approximately $1.0 billion in
such obligations under these contracts, which expire in various
years from 2002 through 2025.

PSCo and Cheyenne have attempted to maintain
low-cost, reliable natural gas supplies by optimizing a balance
of long-term and short-term gas purchases, firm transportation
and gas storage contracts. PSCo and Cheyenne also utilize a
mixture of fixed-price purchases and index-related purchases to
provide a less volatile, yet market sensitive, price to their
customers. During 2001, PSCo and Cheyenne purchased natural gas
from approximately 47 suppliers.

Viking

During 1999, Viking, WICOR and CMS Energy Corp.
announced plans to build an interstate natural gas pipeline to
serve the growing needs of the northern Illinois and
southeastern Wisconsin markets. The three energy companies each
own an equal share of the pipeline. The project, called the
Guardian Pipeline, will transport natural gas from
interconnections with Alliance, Northern Border, Midwestern Gas
Transmission and Natural Gas Pipeline of America at the Chicago
hub near Joliet, Ill. to the Ixonia, Wis., area. In March 2001,
the FERC issued a certificate of public convenience and
necessity authorizing the construction and operation of the
Guardian pipeline. The estimated cost of the 142-mile pipeline
is $230 million. Construction is expected to begin in the
spring of 2002, with completion and operation of the pipeline
expected by November 2002.

Gas Operating Statistics (Xcel
Energy)



NONREGULATED SUBSIDIARIES

Through its non-utility subsidiaries, Xcel Energy
invests and operates several nonregulated businesses in a
variety of industries. The following is an overview of the
significant nonregulated businesses.

NRG Energy, Inc.

NRG is a global energy company primarily engaged
in the acquisition, development, ownership and operation of
power generation facilities and the sale of energy, capacity and
related products.

At Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy indirectly
owned approximately 74 percent of NRG. Xcel Energy owned
100 percent of NRG until the second quarter of 2000, when
NRG completed its initial public offering and 82 percent
until a secondary offering was completed in March 2001. For more
information, see NRG Initial Public Offering discussed under
Liquidity and Capital Resources in Management’s Discussion
and Analysis under Item 7. See Note 19 to the
Financial Statements under Item 8 for discussion of
potential changes in NRG ownership.

NRG has experienced significant growth in the
past, especially the year 2001, expanding from 15,007 megawatts
of net ownership interest in power generation facilities
(including those under construction) as of Dec. 31, 2000 to
24,357 megawatts of net ownership interests as of Dec. 31,
2001. NRG has a well diversified portfolio in terms of location,
fuel and dispatch mode. See a listing of NRG power generation
facilities in Item 2.

NRG is organized into four regionally-based
divisions: NRG North America, based in Minneapolis, MN; NRG
Europe, based in London, England; NRG Asia-Pacific based in
Brisbane, Australia and NRG Latin America, based in Miami,
Florida. Most of NRG’s North American projects are grouped
under regional holding companies corresponding to their domestic
core market. NRG operates its United States generation
facilities within each region as a separate operating unit
within its power generation business. This regional portfolio
structure allows NRG to coordinate the operations of its assets
to take advantage of regional opportunities, reduce risks
related to outages, whether planned or unplanned, and pursue
expansion plans on a regional basis.

NRG’s international power generation
projects are managed as three distinct markets, Asia-Pacific,
Europe and Other Americas.

At Dec. 31, 2001, NRG had interests in power
generation facilities with a total generating capacity of 38,388
megawatts. Of this amount, NRG has a net ownership of 24,357
megawatts. NRG also has interests in district heating and
cooling systems and steam transmission operations. As of
Dec. 31, 2001, these thermal



businesses had a steam and chilled water capacity
equivalent to approximately 1,641 megawatts, of which NRG’s
net ownership interest is 1,514 megawatts.

Since its inception, NRG has been acquiring and
constructing the power generation facilities listed in
Item 2. The following discussion describes NRG’s
significant recent business developments including pending asset
acquisitions, which are subject to various regulatory approvals.
Potential capital requirements for these opportunities are
discussed in Management’s Discussion and Analysis under
Item 7. Additional information is included in Item 1
of NRG’s 2001 Form 10-K, which is incorporated by
reference via Exhibit 99.02.

Pending NRG
Asset Acquisitions

In June 2001, NRG extended purchase agreements
with a subsidiary of Conectiv to acquire 794 megawatts of
coal and oil-fired electric generating capacity and other assets
in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, including an additional
66 megawatts of the Conemaugh Generating Station and an
additional 42 megawatts of the Keystone Generating Station.
These purchase agreements expired on Feb. 28, 2002, but to
date neither party has terminated the agreements.

In July 2001, NRG signed agreements to acquire a
50 percent interest in the Commonwealth Atlantic 375
megawatt, gas and oil-fired generating station from Edison
Mission Energy. The Commonwealth Atlantic facility is located
near Chesapeake, Virginia. In addition, NRG will also acquire a
50 percent interest in the James River 110 megawatt,
coal-fired generating facility located in Hopewell, Virginia.
NRG closed on the acquisition of these facilities in January
2002.

In November 2001, NRG signed purchase agreements
with subsidiaries of FirstEnergy Corporation to acquire or lease
a 2,535-megawatt portfolio of generating assets and two ash
disposal sites. The four coal-fueled, generating stations are
located along Lake Erie, near Cleveland and Toledo, Ohio. A
transitional power purchase agreement with FirstEnergy
Corporation, covering approximately 95 percent of the
output from the facilities, is in place through 2005. The
acquisition is expected to take place in the second quarter of
2002.

NRG 2001
Business Developments

In January 2001, NRG purchased from LS Power LLC
a 5,339-megawatt portfolio of operating projects and projects in
construction and advanced development that are located primarily
in the north central and south central United States.
Approximately 3,295 megawatts are currently in operation or
under construction. Each facility employs natural gas-fired,
combined-cycle technology. Through Dec. 31, 2005, NRG also has
the opportunity to acquire ownership interests in an additional
3,000 megawatts of generation projects developed and
offered for sale by LS Power and its partners.

In March 2001, NRG purchased from Cogentrix the
remaining 430 megawatts or 51.37 percent interest, in
a 837 megawatt natural gas-fired combined-cycle plant
located in Mississippi. NRG acquired a 48.63 percent
interest in the plant in January 2001 from LS Power.

In June 2001, NRG purchased a 640-megawatt,
natural gas-fired power plant in Audrain County, Missouri, from
Duke Energy North America LLC.

In June 2001, NRG closed on the construction
financing for the Brazos Valley generating facility, a
633-megawatt, gas-fired power plant in Texas that NRG will
build, operate and manage. At the time of the closing, NRG also
became the 100 percent owner of the project by purchasing
STEAG Power LLC’s 50 percent interest in the project.
NRG expects the project to begin commercial operation in June
2003.

In June 2001, NRG purchased 1,081 megawatts
of interests in power generation plants from a subsidiary of
Conectiv. NRG acquired a 100 percent interest in the
784 megawatt, coal-fired Indian River Generating Station,
located in Delaware, and in the 170 megawatt, oil-fired
Vienna Generating Station, located in Maryland. In addition, NRG
acquired 64 megawatts of the 1,711 megawatt, coal-fired
Conemaugh Generating Station and 63 megawatts of the
1,711 megawatt, coal-fired Keystone Generating Station,
both located near Pittsburgh, Penn.



In June 2001, NRG increased its interest in
Compania Boliviana de Energia Electrica S.A. —
Bolivian Power Company Ltd. (COBEE) as part of a large
portfolio acquisition of assets. NRG now owns 98.9 percent
of COBEE. COBEE, with 220 megawatts of predominantly
hydroelectric generation, is the second largest electric
generator in Bolivia.

In June 2001, NRG purchased a 389-megawatt,
gas-fired power plant and a 116-megawatt, thermal power plant,
both of which are located in Hungary, from PowerGen. In April
2001, NRG also purchased PowerGen’s interest in Saale
Energie GmbH and MIBRAG BV. By acquiring PowerGen’s
interest in Saale Energie, NRG increased its ownership interest
in the 960 megawatt, coal-fired Schkopau power station, located
in Germany, from 200 megawatts to 400 megawatts. By acquiring
PowerGen’s interest in MIBRAG, consisting primarily of two
lignite mines and three power stations in Germany, NRG increased
its ownership of MIBRAG from 33.3 percent to
50 percent.

In July 2001, NRG acquired approximately
60 percent of Hsin Yu Energy Development Co. Ltd, a Taiwan
company, for NT $1.6 billion (approximately
$46.7 million at the date of acquisition). Hsin Yu
currently owns a 170-megawatt, cogeneration facility. Hsin Yu is
developing a 245-megawatt expansion of the facility and has the
rights to develop a new 490-megawatt greenfield project in
Taiwan.

During 2001, NRG acquired a 30 percent
ownership in the Lanco Kondapalli Power Private Limited and
100 percent of Eastern Generation (India) Services Limited
Private for $27 million. The 355-megawatt gas and oil-fired
Kondapalli generating facility is a combined cycle power plant
located in India. Eastern Generation Services is the plant
operator.

In August 2001, NRG acquired an approximately
2,255 megawatt portfolio of five projects in operation,
construction and advanced development that are located in
Illinois and upstate New York from Indeck Energy Services, Inc.
Approximately 402 megawatts are currently in operation.

In August 2001, NRG acquired Duke Energy’s
77 percent interest in the 520 megawatt, natural gas-fired
McClain Energy Generating Facility, located in Oklahoma. The
Oklahoma Municipal Power Authority owns the remaining
23 percent interest. The McClain facility became
operational in June 2001.

In September 2001, NRG acquired a 50 percent
interest in TermoRio SA, a 1,040-megawatt gas-fired
co-generation facility currently under construction from
Petroleos Brasileiros SA located in Brazil. Commercial operation
is expected to begin in March 2004.

In September 2001, NRG acquired for
$66 million, a 50 percent interest in Saguaro Power
Company, L.P. The partnership owns a 105-megawatt natural gas
fired cogeneration facility in Nevada. The facility is also
capable of generating 50 to 160 thousand pounds per hour of
export steam.

In December 2001, NRG acquired a 540-megawatt,
natural gas-fired generation facility being developed in
Connecticut. The plant has a planned commercial operation date
of August 2003.

e prime, inc.

e prime was incorporated in 1995 under the
laws of Colorado. e prime provides energy related products
and services, which include natural gas marketing and trading
and energy consulting. In 1996, e prime received
authorization from the FERC to act as a power marketer.
Additionally, e prime owns Young Gas Storage Company, which
owns a 47.5 percent general partnership interest in an
underground gas storage facility in northeastern Colorado.

e prime’s gas trading operations acquire
assets and commodities and subsequently trade around those
assets or commodity positions. e prime captures trading
opportunities through price volatility driven by factors such as
asset utilization, locational price differentials, weather,
available supplies, credit, and customer actions. Trading
margins are captured through the utilization of transmission,
transportation, and storage assets, capitalization on regional
price differences, and other factors.



Other Subsidiaries

Although not individually reportable segments,
Xcel Energy also has a number of nonregulated subsidiaries in
various lines of business. The most significant are discussed
below.

Xcel Energy
International

Xcel Energy International (Xcel International)
was formed in 1997 to manage the international operations of
Xcel Energy, outside of NRG. At Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel
International’s primary investments included Yorkshire
Power and Xcel Energy Argentina.

In April 1997, Xcel International purchased a
50 percent interest in Yorkshire Power, a U.K. regional
electricity company, for approximately $362 million.
Yorkshire Electricity’s main business is the supply and
distribution and supply of electricity and the supply of gas to
approximately 2 million customers. During April 2001, Xcel
International sold the majority of its investment in Yorkshire
Power to Innogy Holdings plc. Xcel Energy retains an interest of
approximately 5 percent in Yorkshire Power to comply with
pooling-of-interests accounting requirements associated with the
merger of NSP and NCE in 2000. Xcel Energy received
approximately $366 million for the sale, which approximated
the book value of Xcel Energy’s investment.

Xcel Argentina’s primary investment consists
of the ownership and operation of independent power production
facilities in Argentina. At Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Argentina had
approximately $102 million invested in these facilities.
See further discussion in Note 15 to the Financial Statements
under Item 8.

Utility
Engineering (UE)

UE was incorporated in 1985 under the laws of
Texas. UE is engaged in engineering, design, construction
management and other miscellaneous services. UE currently has
five wholly-owned subsidiaries — Universal Utility
Services LLC, Precision Resource Co., Quixx, Proto-Power and
Applied Power Associates Inc. Universal Utility Services Co.
provides cooling tower maintenance and repair, certain other
industrial plant improvement services, and engineered
maintenance of high-voltage plant electric equipment. Precision
Resource Co. provides contract professional and technical
resources for customers in the energy industrial sectors. Quixx
was incorporated in 1985 under the laws of Texas. Quixx’s
primary business is investing in and developing cogeneration and
energy-related projects. Quixx also holds water rights and
certain other non-utility assets. Quixx financed the sale of
heat pumps until December 1999.

Planergy
International Inc.

Planergy was acquired in 1998. Planergy provides
energy management, consulting, on-site generation, load
curtailment, demand-side management, energy conservation and
optimization, distributed generation and power quality services,
as well as information management solutions to industrial,
commercial and utility customers.

Energy Masters International, Inc.
(EMI) began operations in 1993. EMI primarily offers
retrofitting and upgrading facilities for greater energy
efficiency on a national basis. In 1995, EMI acquired Energy
Masters Corporation, a company that specializes in energy
efficiency improvement services for commercial, industrial and
institutional customers. In 1997, EMI acquired 100 percent
of Energy Solutions International Inc., an energy management
firm.

During 2000, Planergy and EMI, both wholly owned
subsidiaries of Xcel Energy, were combined to form Planergy
International.

Seren
Innovations, Inc.

Seren was formed in 1996 to pursue communications
and data services businesses. Currently, Seren is constructing a
combination cable television, telephone and high-speed internet
access system in two locations: St. Cloud, Minn. and Contra
Costa County in the East Bay area of northern California. Seren
had capitalized



$190 million for plant in service and had
incurred another $60 million for construction work in progress
for these systems at Dec. 31, 2001. See further discussion
in Note 15 to the Financial Statements under Item 8.

Eloigne
Company

Eloigne was established in 1993 and its principal
business is the acquisition of rental housing projects that
qualify for low-income housing tax credits under current federal
tax law. As of Dec. 31, 2001, approximately $84 million had
been invested in Eloigne projects, including approximately
$24 million in wholly owned properties and approximately
$60 million in equity interests in jointly owned projects.

Completed Eloigne projects as of Dec. 31,
2001, are expected to generate tax credits of $65 million
over the time period of 2002 through 2011.

Environmental Matters

Certain of Xcel Energy’s subsidiary
facilities are regulated by federal and state environmental
agencies. These agencies have jurisdiction over air emissions,
water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes and hazardous
substances. Various company activities require registrations,
permits, licenses, inspections and approvals from these
agencies. Xcel Energy has received all necessary authorizations
for the construction and continued operation of its generation,
transmission and distribution systems. Company facilities have
been designed and constructed to operate in compliance with
applicable environmental standards.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries strive to comply
with all environmental regulations applicable to its operations.
However, it is not possible at this time to determine when or to
what extent additional facilities or modifications of existing
or planned facilities will be required as a result of changes to
environmental regulations, interpretations or enforcement
policies or, generally, what effect future laws or regulations
may have upon Xcel Energy’s operations. For more
information on Environmental Contingencies, see Note 15 to the
Financial Statements under Item 8 and Environmental Matters
in Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.

Capital Spending and Financing

For a discussion of expected capital expenditures
and funding sources, see Management’s Discussion and
Analysis under Item 7.



EMPLOYEES

The number of Xcel Energy employees at Dec. 31,
2001, is presented in the table below. Of the employees listed
below, 7,177, or 43 percent, are covered under collective
bargaining agreements.

Executive Officers

Wayne H. Brunetti, 59, Chairman of the
Board, August 2001 to present, President and Chief Executive
Officer, August 2000 to present. Previously, Vice Chairman,
President, Chief Operating Officer and Director of NCE since
1997 and President and Director of PSCo since 1994.

Paul J. Bonavia, 50, President —
Energy Markets, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to present. Previously,
Senior Vice President and General Counsel of NCE since 1997.

Cathy J. Hart, 52, Vice President and
Corporate Secretary, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to present.
Previously, Secretary of NCE since 1998 and Manager of Corporate
Communications of PSCo from 1993 to 1996.

Gary R. Johnson, 55, Vice President and
General Counsel, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to present.
Previously, Vice President and General Counsel of NSP since 1991.

Richard C. Kelly, 55, President —
Enterprises, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to present. Previously,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for NCE
from 1997 to August 2000 and Senior Vice President of PSCo from
1990 to 1997.

Cynthia L. Lesher, 53, Chief Administrative
Officer, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to present. Chief Human
Resources Officer, Xcel Energy, July 2001 to present.
Previously, President of NSP-Gas since July 1997 and previously
Vice President-Human Resources of NSP.

Edward J. McIntyre, 51, Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to present.
Previously, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NSP
since 1993.

Paul E. Pender, 47, Vice President and
Treasurer, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to present. Previously, Vice
President of Finance and Treasurer of NSP since May 1997 and
previously Assistant Treasurer and Director of Corporate Finance
of NSP.

Tom Petillo, 57, President — Delivery,
Xcel Energy, March 2001 to present. Previously,
President, — Delivery, Xcel Energy from August 2000 to
March 2001, Executive Vice President of New Century Services
from 1998 to August 2000 and President and Director of New
Century International from 1997 to 1998.

David E. Ripka, 53, Vice President and
Controller, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to present. Previously,
Vice President and Controller of NRG from June 1999 to August
2000, Controller of NRG from March 1997 to June 1999 and
Assistant Controller for NSP from June 1992 to March 1997.

Patricia K. Vincent, 43, President —
Retail, Xcel Energy, March 2001 to present. Previously, Vice
President of Marketing and Sales of Xcel Energy from August 2000
to March 2001, Vice President of Marketing & Sales of NCE
from January 1999 to August 2000 and Manager, Director and Vice
President of Marketing and Sales at Arizona Public Service
Company from 1992 to January 1999.



David M. Wilks, 55, President — Energy
Supply, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to present. Previously,
Executive Vice President and Director of PSCo and New Century
Services from 1997 to August 2000 and President, Chief Operating
Officer and Director of SPS from 1995 to August 2000.

Item 2.

Properties

For discussion and information concerning
nonregulated properties, see Nonregulated Subsidiaries under
Item 1, incorporated by reference.

Virtually all of the utility plant of
NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin and PSCo is subject to the lien of
their first mortgage bond indentures.

Electric utility generating stations:

NSP — Minnesota

(a)

NSP-Minnesota’s 59 percent of Sherco unit
	3’s total capability



NSP — Wisconsin

RDF is refuse derived fuel, made from municipal
solid waste



PSCo

(a)

Based on PSCo ownership interest of
	9.72 percent

(b)

Based on PSCo ownership interest of
	75.5 percent of unit 1 and 37.4 percent of unit 2



SPS

Electric utility overhead and underground
transmission and distribution lines at Dec. 31, 2001:

Electric utility transmission and distribution
substations at Dec. 31, 2001:



Gas utility mains at Dec. 31, 2001:

Listed below are descriptions of NRG’s
interests in facilities, operations and/or projects under
construction at Dec. 31, 2001.

Independent Power Production and Cogeneration
Facilities





Thermal Energy Production and Transmission
Facilities And Resource Recovery Facilities



(1)

Thermal production and transmission capacity is
	based on 1,000 Btu’s per pound of steam production or
	transmission capacity. The unit mmBtu is equal to one million
	Btu’s.

(2)

Kaldno also is included in the Independent Power
	Production and Cogeneration Facilities table on the preceding
	page, under the name ECK Generating.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

In the normal course of business, various
lawsuits and claims have arisen against Xcel Energy. Management,
after consultation with legal counsel, has recorded an estimate
of the probable cost of settlement or other disposition for such
matters.

Department of Energy
Complaint

— On
June 8, 1998, NSP-Minnesota filed a complaint in the Court
of Federal Claims against the DOE requesting damages in excess
of $1 billion for the DOE’s partial breach of the
Standard Contract. NSP-Minnesota requested damages consisting of
the costs of storage of spent nuclear fuel at the Prairie Island
nuclear generating plant, anticipated costs related to the
Private Fuel Storage, LLC and costs relating to the 1994 state
legislation limiting the number of casks that can be used to
store spent nuclear fuel at Prairie Island. On April 6,
1999, the Court of Federal Claims dismissed NSP-Minnesota’s
complaint. On May 20, 1999, NSP-Minnesota appealed to the
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On Aug. 31, 2000,
the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed and
remanded to the Court of Federal Claims. On Dec. 26, 2000,
NSP-Minnesota filed a motion with the Court of Federal Claims to
amend its complaint and renew its motion for summary judgment on
the DOE’s liability. These motions are pending before the
Court of Federal Claims. On Jan. 9, 2001, the DOE filed a
motion with the Chief Judge for the Court of Federal Claims
asking that all cases against the DOE arising out of alleged
breaches of the Standard Contract be reassigned to one judge.
The DOE also asked for the extraordinary remedy of binding
parties not currently party to an action before the Court of
Claims to a determination in the proposed consolidated action.
This motion is pending before the Court of Federal Claims. Over
the course of the summer of 2001, Judge Wiese of the Court of
Federal Claims held a number of conferences with counsel for the
DOE and the utilities. Judge Wiese has thus far refused to
consolidate actions and has stated that the actions should
continue before different judges. He has consolidated aspects of
discovery. Judge Wiese has also thus far refused to bind parties
not currently party to an action before the Court of Claims. The
DOE has issued a number of subpoenas to parties not currently
party to an action. The Chief Judge also appointed Judge
Weinstein of the Court of Federal Claims to hear discovery
disputes. Discovery is proceeding. A trial in
NSP-Minnesota’s suit against the DOE is not likely to occur
before the fourth quarter of 2002.

Fortistar
Litigation

— In July
1999, Fortistar Capital, Inc., a Delaware corporation, filed a
complaint in District Court (Fourth Judicial District, Hennepin
County) in Minnesota against NRG asserting claims for injunctive
relief and for damages as a result of NRG’s alleged breach
of a confidentiality letter agreement with Fortistar relating to
the Oswego facility in New York. NRG disputed Fortistar’s
allegations and asserted numerous counterclaims. In October
1999, NRG, through a wholly owned subsidiary, closed on the
acquisition of the Oswego facility. In April and December 2000,
NRG filed summary judgment motions to dispose of the litigation.
A hearing on these motions was held in February 2001 and certain
of Fortistar’s claims were dismissed. NRG intends to
continue to vigorously defend the suit and believes
Fortistar’s claims to be without merit. A trial date of
May 13, 2002 has been set in respect of the remaining
claims.

Stray
Voltage

— On
Sept. 25, 2000, NSP-Wisconsin was served with a complaint
in Eau Claire County Circuit Court on behalf of Caron and Janice
Stubrud. The complaint alleged that stray voltage from
NSP-Wisconsin’s system harmed their dairy herd resulting in
lost milk production, lost profits and income, property damage,
and injury to their dairy herd. The complaint also alleges that
NSP-Wisconsin acted willfully and wantonly, entitling plaintiffs
to treble damages. The plaintiffs allege farm damages of
approximately $3.8 million. The case is in the early stages
of discovery. A ten-day trial commencing Dec. 2, 2002 has
been scheduled.

On Nov. 13, 2001, Ralph Schmidt, Karline
Schmidt, August C. Heeg Jr., and Joanne Heeg filed a
complaint in Clark County, Wisconsin against Xcel Energy
Services Inc. (XES), a wholly owned subsidiary



of Xcel Energy. The complaint alleged that stray
voltage harmed their dairy herd resulting in decreased milk
production, lost profits and income, property damage and injury
to their dairy herd. The plaintiffs also allege entitlement to
treble damages. The amount of the plaintiffs’ alleged
damages is unknown at this time.

At all relevant times, NSP-Wisconsin provided
utility service to plaintiffs; therefore XES is seeking
dismissal of XES and substitution of NSP-Wisconsin as the proper
party defendant.

French
Island

—
NSP-Wisconsin’s French Island plant generates electricity
by burning a mixture of wood waste and refuse derived fuel. The
fuel is derived from municipal solid waste furnished under a
contract with La Crosse County, Wisconsin. In October 2000, the
EPA reversed a prior decision and found that the plant was
subject to the federal large combustor regulations. Those
regulations became effective on Dec. 19, 2000.
NSP-Wisconsin did not have adequate time to install the emission
controls necessary to come into compliance with the large
combustor regulations by the compliance date. As a result, on
March 29, 2001, the EPA issued a finding of violation to
the company. On April 2, 2001, a conservation group sent
NSP-Wisconsin a notice of intent to sue under the citizen suit
provisions of the Clean Air Act. On July 27, 2001, the
state of Wisconsin filed a lawsuit against NSP-Wisconsin in the
Wisconsin Circuit Court for La Crosse County, contending that
NSP-Wisconsin exceeded dioxin emission limits on numerous
occasions between July 1995 and December 2000 at French Island.
NSP-Wisconsin faces fines between $10 and $25,000 per day for
each violation.

On Aug. 15, 2001, NSP-Wisconsin received a
Certificate of Authority to install control equipment necessary
to bring the French Island plant into compliance with the large
combustor regulations. NSP-Wisconsin began construction of the
new air quality equipment on Oct. 1, 2001. NSP-Wisconsin
has reached an agreement in principle with La Crosse County
through which La Crosse County will pay for the extra emissions
equipment required to comply with the EPA regulation. In 2001,
NSP-Wisconsin received results of a stack test on French Island
Unit 2, which indicated that the unit’s emissions
during the stack test exceeded its dioxin limit. The State of
Wisconsin issued an additional notice of violation to
NSP-Wisconsin as a result of these stack tests. NSP-Wisconsin
has stopped burning refuse-derived fuel in the boiler until it
can complete the retrofit required for compliance with the
federal large combustor requirements. NSP-Wisconsin expects that
the retrofit will also allow it to comply with the state dioxin
standard.

New York Department of Environmental
Control Opacity Notice of
Violation

— NRG became
part of an opacity consent order as a result of acquiring the
Niagara Mohawk assets. At the time of financial close, the
consent order was being negotiated between Niagara Mohawk and
the New York Department of Environmental Control (NYDEC). The
consent order required Niagara Mohawk to pay a stipulated
penalty for each opacity event. On Jan. 14, 2002, the NYDEC
issued NRG Notice of Violations (NOV) for opacity events, which
had occurred since the time NRG assumed ownership of the
Huntley, Dunkirk and Oswego Generating Stations. The NOVs
alleged that a total of 7,231 events had occurred where the
average opacity during the six-minute block of time had exceeded
20 percent. The NYDEC set the penalty associated with the
NOVs at $900,000.

Light Rail Transit
(LRT)

— On Feb. 16,
2001, NSP-Minnesota filed a suit in the United States District
Court in Minneapolis against the Minnesota Metropolitan Council,
Minnesota Department of Transportation, State of Minnesota and
the Federal Transit Administration to prevent pave-over of
NSP-Minnesota’s underground facilities during construction
of the LRT system. NSP-Minnesota also is seeking recovery of
relocation expenses. State defendants countersued, seeking delay
damages and a $330 million surety bond. On May 24,
2001, the District Court issued a preliminary injunction
requiring NSP-Minnesota to commence the relocation project and
to cooperate with defendants. NSP-Minnesota appealed the
Judge’s Order to relocate. The Court of Appeals agreed to
expedite its consideration of the appeal and oral argument was
held on Oct. 18, 2001. The Court of Appeals refused to lift
the preliminary injunction; however, the Court required the
Minnesota Department of Transportation and Metropolitan Council
to post a $8 million bond in the event NSP-Minnesota is
successful at trial. Pending the trial, utility line relocation
has commenced and NSP-Minnesota is capitalizing its costs
incurred as construction work in progress. A trial in
NSP-Minnesota’s suit is not likely to occur before the
third quarter of 2002. NSP-Minnesota denies the merits of the
defendants’ countersuits and intends to vigorously defend
against their claims.



California Ancillary
Services

— On
March 11, 2002, the Attorney General of California filed a
civil complaint against NRG, certain NRG affiliates, Xcel
Energy, Dynegy, Inc. and Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc., alleging
antitrust violations in the ancillary services market. The
complaint alleges that the defendants repeatedly sold
electricity generating capacity to the California Independent
System Operator for use as a reserve and subsequently, and
impermissibly, sold the same capacity into the “spot”
market for wholesale power, unlawfully collecting millions of
dollars. Similar complaints were filed against other power
generators. The plaintiff seeks an injunction against further
similar acts by the defendants, and also seeks restitution,
disgorgement of all proceeds, including profits, gained from
these sales, and certain civil penalties.

NRG
Litigation

— In February
2002, individual stockholders of NRG filed nine separate, but
similar, class action complaints in the Delaware Court of
Chancery against Xcel Energy, NRG and the nine members of
NRG’s board of directors. Each of the actions was brought
as a class action on behalf of all holders of NRG’s shares,
other than the defendants and persons related to or affiliated
with the defendants. The actions generally allege that Xcel
Energy, NRG and the individual defendants breached fiduciary
duties of care, loyalty and candor in connection with an
exchange offer by which Xcel Energy would acquire all
outstanding publicly held shares of NRG. The complaints assert
the exchange offer is being undertaken in an unfair and coercive
manner, at an unfairly low price, using inside information and
with inadequate disclosure, all in furtherance of the interests
of Xcel Energy at the expense of the public stockholders of NRG.
A tenth class action complaint was filed in a Minnesota state
court by an NRG stockholder against Xcel Energy, NRG and seven
of the nine members of NRG’s board of directors alleging
essentially the same charges. The complaints request the court
to enjoin the proposed transaction and, in the event of the
exchange offer is consummated, to award damages to defendants.
Xcel Energy denies the merits of the plaintiffs’ claims and
intends to vigorously defend against their claims.

For a discussion of other legal claims and
environmental proceedings, see Note 15 to the Financial
Statements under Item 8, incorporated by reference. For a
discussion of proceedings involving utility rates, see Pending
Regulatory Matters under Item 1, and Management’s
Discussion and Analysis under Item 7, all incorporated by
reference.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None during the fourth quarter of 2001.

PART II

Item 5.

Market
for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

Quarterly
Stock Data

Xcel Energy’s common stock is listed on the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Chicago Stock Exchange and
the Pacific Stock Exchange. The trading symbol is XEL. Following
are the reported high and low sales prices based on the NYSE
Composite Transactions for the quarters of 2001 and 2000 and the
dividends declared per share during those quarters.



Book value per share at Dec. 31, 2001, was
$17.91. Shareholders of record as of March 15, 2002, were
134,410.

Xcel Energy’s Restated Articles of
Incorporation and First Mortgage Bond Trust Indenture provide
for certain restrictions on the payment of cash dividends on
common stock. At Dec. 31, 2001, the payment of cash
dividends on common stock was not restricted except as described
in Note 9 to the Financial Statements under Item 8.

Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data

(a)

Operating revenues and expenses for 1997-2000
	reflect reclassifications to conform to the 2001 presentation.
	These reclassifications related to reporting certain
	nonregulated revenues and expenses on a gross basis, and had no
	effect on net income or earnings per share.

(b)

Amounts include proforma adjustments to restate
	periods prior to the Xcel Energy merger for historically
	consistent reporting. Dividends in 2000 and 1997 reflect
	dividends paid by predecessor companies before, and successor
	companies after, the Xcel Energy merger in August 2000 and the
	New Century Energies merger in August 1997.



(c)

Excludes undistributed equity income and includes
	allowance for funds used during construction.

(d)

Earnings in 2001 were increased by three cents
	per share for extraordinary items. Earnings in 2000 were reduced
	by 52 cents per share for special charges related to the
	Xcel Energy merger, as discussed in Note 2 to the Financial
	Statements under Item 8. In addition, earnings in 2000 were
	reduced by six cents per share for extraordinary items related
	to electric utility restructuring in Texas and New Mexico, as
	discussed in Note 12 to the Financial Statements under
	Item 8.

(e)

Earnings in 1997 were reduced by 16 cents
	per share for special charges related to the New Century
	Energies merger and to write-off costs for the terminated merger
	to form Primergy. In addition, earnings in 1997 were reduced by
	37 cents per share for an extraordinary item related to a
	UK windfall tax recorded at Yorkshire Power.

Item 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis

On Aug. 18, 2000, New Century Energies, Inc.
(NCE) and Northern States Power Co. (NSP) merged and formed Xcel
Energy Inc. (Xcel Energy). Xcel Energy, a Minnesota corporation,
is a registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding
Company Act (PUHCA). As part of the merger, NSP transferred its
existing utility operations that were being conducted directly
by NSP at the parent company level to a newly formed subsidiary
of Xcel Energy named Northern States Power Co. Each share of NCE
common stock was exchanged for 1.55 shares of Xcel Energy
common stock. NSP shares became Xcel Energy shares on a
one-for-one basis. As a stock-for-stock exchange for
shareholders of both companies, the merger was accounted for as
a pooling-of-interests and accordingly, amounts reported for
periods prior to the merger have been restated for comparability
with post-merger results.

Xcel Energy directly owns six utility
subsidiaries that serve electric and natural gas customers in
12 states. These six utility subsidiaries are Northern
States Power Co., a Minnesota corporation (NSP-Minnesota);
Northern States Power Co., a Wisconsin corporation
(NSP-Wisconsin); Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo);
Southwestern Public Service Co. (SPS); Black Mountain Gas Co.
(BMG); and Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Co. (Cheyenne). Their
service territories include portions of Arizona, Colorado,
Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma,
South Dakota, Texas, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Xcel Energy’s
regulated businesses also include Viking Gas Transmission Co.
(Viking) and WestGas InterState Inc. (WGI), both interstate
natural gas pipeline companies.

Xcel Energy also owns or has an interest in a
number of nonregulated businesses, the largest of which is NRG
Energy, Inc., a publicly traded independent power producer. At
Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy indirectly owned approximately
74 percent of NRG. Xcel Energy’s ownership of NRG was
100 percent until the second quarter of 2000, when NRG
completed its initial public offering, and then 82 percent
until a secondary offering was completed in March 2001. See
Note 19 to the Financial Statements for discussion of
potential changes in NRG ownership.

In addition to NRG, Xcel Energy’s
nonregulated subsidiaries include Utility Engineering
(engineering, construction and design), Seren Innovations, Inc.
(broadband telecommunications services), e prime inc.
(natural gas marketing and trading), Planergy International,
Inc. (enterprise energy management solutions), Eloigne Co.
(investments in rental housing projects that qualify for
low-income housing tax credits) and Xcel Energy International
(an international independent power producer).

XCEL ENERGY’S MISSION AND GUIDING
PRINCIPLES

Xcel Energy’s mission is to provide energy
and service solutions that advance the productivity and
lifestyle of our customers, foster the growth of our employees
and enhance value for our shareholders.

Xcel Energy’s guiding principles include:
focusing on the customer, respecting people, managing with
facts, continually improving our business, focusing on the
prevention of problems and promoting a safe and challenging work
environment.



Xcel Energy’s 2002 Game Plan consists of the
following elements:

FINANCIAL REVIEW

The following discussion and analysis by
management focuses on those factors that had a material effect
on Xcel Energy’s financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows during the periods presented, or are expected to
have a material impact in the future. It should be read in
conjunction with the accompanying Financial Statements and Notes.

Except for the historical statements contained in
this report, the matters discussed in the following discussion
and analysis are forward-looking statements that are subject to
certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such
forward-looking statements are intended to be identified in this
document by the words “anticipate,”
“estimate,” “expect,” “objective,”
“outlook,” “project,” “possible,”
“potential” and similar expressions. Actual results
may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially include, but are not limited to: general
economic conditions, including their impact on capital
expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries
to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in
the energy industry; competitive factors, including the extent
and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets
served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather;
state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory
initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery or have an
impact on rates; structures that affect the speed and degree to
which competition enters the electric and gas markets; the
higher risk associated with Xcel Energy’s nonregulated
businesses compared with its regulated businesses; currency
translation and transaction adjustments; risks associated with
the California power market; the items described under Factors
Affecting Results of Operations; and the other risk factors
listed from time to time by Xcel Energy in reports filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including
Exhibit 99.01 to Xcel Energy’s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2001.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Xcel Energy’s earnings per share for the
past three years were as follows:

Contribution to earnings per share

For more information on significant factors that
had an impact on earnings, see below.

Significant Factors that Impacted 2001
Results

Conservation Incentive
Recovery

— Earnings were
increased by 7 cents per share due to the reversal of a
Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) decision.



In June 1999, the MPUC denied NSP-Minnesota
recovery of 1998 incentives associated with state-mandated
programs for electric energy conservation. Xcel Energy recorded
a $35-million charge in 1999, which reduced earnings by
7 cents per share, based on this action. NSP-Minnesota
appealed the MPUC decision and in December 2000, the Minnesota
Court of Appeals reversed the MPUC decision. In January 2001,
the MPUC appealed the lower court decision to the Minnesota
Supreme Court. On Feb. 23, 2001, the Minnesota Supreme
Court declined to hear the MPUC’s appeal. During the second
quarter of 2001, NSP-Minnesota filed with the MPUC a plan that
carried out, among other things, the court’s decision.

On June 28, 2001, the MPUC approved the plan
and issued an order to that effect shortly thereafter. As a
result, the previously recorded liabilities of approximately
$41 million (including carrying charges) for potential
refunds to customers were no longer required. The plan approved
by the MPUC increased revenue by approximately $34 million
and increased allowance for funds used during construction by
approximately $7 million, increasing earnings by
7 cents per share for the second quarter of 2001.

Based on the new MPUC policy and less
uncertainty regarding conservation incentives to be approved,
conservation incentives for 2001 are now being recorded on a
current basis.

Special Charges — Postemployment
Benefits

— Earnings were
decreased by 4 cents per share due to a Colorado Supreme
Court decision that resulted in a pretax write-off of
$23 million of a regulatory asset related to deferred
postemployment benefit costs at PSCo. For more information, see
Note 2 to the Financial Statements.

Special Charges — Restaffing
Costs

— During 2001,
Xcel Energy expensed pretax special charges of $39 million,
or 7 cents per share, for planned staff consolidation
costs. The charges related to severance costs for utility
operations resulting from restaffing plans of several operating
and corporate support areas of Xcel Energy. We accrued for
500 staff terminations that are expected to occur, mainly
in the first quarter of 2002, across all regions of Xcel
Energy’s service territory, but primarily in Minneapolis
and Denver. For more information, see Note 2 to the
Financial Statements.

Extraordinary Items — Electric
Utility Restructuring

—
During early 2001, legislation in both Texas and New Mexico
was passed that delayed the planned implementation of
restructuring within SPS’ service territory for at
least five years. Accordingly, in the second quarter of
2001, SPS reapplied the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71 —
“Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation” for its generation business. Based on
subsequent financing and regulatory activities clarifying the
expected ratemaking impacts of restructuring delays in the
fourth quarter of 2001, SPS restored certain regulatory assets
totaling $17.6 million as of Dec. 31, 2001, and
reported related after-tax extraordinary income of
$11.8 million, or 3 cents per share. This represents a
reversal of a portion of the 2000 write-offs discussed later.
Regulatory assets previously written off were restored only for
items currently being recovered in rates and items where future
rate recovery is considered probable. For more information, see
Note 12 to the Financial Statements.

Significant Factors that Impacted 2000
Results

Special Charges — Merger
Costs

— During 2000,
Xcel Energy expensed pretax special charges of
$241 million, or 52 cents per share, for costs related
to the merger between NSP and NCE. Of these special charges,
approximately 44 cents per share were associated with the
costs of merging regulated operations and 8 cents per share
were associated with merger impacts on nonregulated activities.
See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for more information
on these charges.

Extraordinary Items — Electric
Utility Restructuring

—
Xcel Energy’s earnings for 2000 were reduced by
6 cents per share for two extraordinary items related to
the expected discontinuation of regulatory accounting for
SPS’ generation business. Based on expectations at that
time for SPS’ restructuring, during the second quarter of
2000, SPS wrote off its generation-related regulatory assets and
other deferred costs for an extraordinary charge of
approximately $19.3 million before tax, or
$13.7 million after tax. During the third quarter of 2000,
SPS recorded an additional extraordinary charge of
$8.2 million before tax, or $5.3 million



after tax, related to the tender offer and
defeasance of approximately $295 million of first mortgage
bonds, again based on expected restructuring. For more
information, see Note 12 to the Financial Statements.

Significant Factors that Impacted 1999
Results

Conservation Incentive
Recovery

— Earnings for
1999 were reduced by 7 cents per share due to the
disallowance of 1998 conservation incentives for NSP-Minnesota.
In June 1999, the MPUC denied NSP-Minnesota recovery of 1998
lost margins, load management discounts and incentives
associated with state-mandated programs for electric energy
conservation. Xcel Energy recorded a $35-million reduction to
pretax income in 1999 based on this action, primarily as a
reduction of electric utility revenue. As discussed previously
under Significant Factors that Impacted 2001 Results, this
decision and the related charge were ultimately reversed.

In addition, based on the 1999 change in the
MPUC policy on conservation incentives and regulatory
uncertainty, in 1999 and 2000 management did not record
conservation incentives until they were approved by the MPUC the
following year.

Special
Charges

— During 1999,
Xcel Energy expensed pretax special charges of $31 million,
or 7 cents per share, stemming from asset impairments
related to goodwill and marketable securities associated with
nonregulated activities. See Note 2 to the Financial
Statements for more information on these charges.

Nonregulated Subsidiaries and Holding
Company

Contribution to Xcel Energy’s earnings
per share

*

NRG’s earnings for 2001 and 2000 in this
	report exclude earnings of 19 cents per share and
	8 cents per share, respectively, related to minority
	shareholder interests.

NRG

—
NRG’s earnings for 2001 increased primarily due to new
acquisitions in Europe and North America, as well as a full year
of operation in 2001 of acquisitions made in the fourth quarter
of 2000. In addition, NRG’s earnings reflected a reduction
in the overall effective tax rate and mark-to-market gains
related to SFAS No. 133 — “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activity.” The overall
reduction in tax rates was primarily due to higher energy
credits, the implementation of state tax planning strategies and
a higher percentage of NRG’s overall earnings derived from
foreign projects in lower tax jurisdictions.

NRG’s earnings for 2000 reflected increased
electric revenues resulting from acquired generation assets.
During 2000, NRG increased its megawatt ownership interest in
generating facilities in operation by more than 4,000 megawatts.
NRG’s earnings for 2000 also were influenced by favorable
weather conditions that increased demand for electricity in the
northeast and western United States, market dynamics, strong
performance from existing assets and higher market prices for
electricity.

Yorkshire
Power

— During February
2001, Xcel Energy reached an agreement to sell the majority of
its investment in Yorkshire Power to Innogy Holdings plc. As a
result of this sales agreement, Xcel Energy did



not record any equity earnings from Yorkshire
Power after January 2001. For more information, see Note 11
to the Financial Statements.

Seren
Innovations

—
Construction of its broadband communications network in
Minnesota and California resulted in losses for 2001, 2000 and
1999. Seren is constructing a combination cable television,
telephone and high-speed Internet access system in two
locations: St. Cloud, Minn., and Contra Costa county in the East
Bay area of northern California. For more information see
Note 15 to the Financial Statements.

Planergy
International

—
Competitive markets and delays in government contracts have
resulted in continued low margins and losses for Planergy’s
energy management business in 2001.

Planergy’s results for 2000 were reduced by
special charges of 4 cents per share for the write-offs of
goodwill and project development costs. As a part of the Xcel
Energy merger in 2000, Planergy and Energy Masters International
(EMI), both wholly owned subsidiaries of Xcel Energy, were
combined to form Planergy International. As a result of this
combination, Planergy reassessed its business model and made a
strategic realignment, which resulted in the write-off of
$22 million (before tax) of goodwill and project
development costs.

In addition, Planergy’s results for 1999
were reduced by a special charge of 4 cents per share to
write off approximately $17 million (before tax) of
goodwill.

e prime

—
e prime’s results for the year ended Dec. 31,
2001, reflect the favorable structure of its contractual
portfolio, including gas storage and transportation positions,
structured products and proprietary trading in natural gas
markets.

e prime’s results for 2000 were reduced
by special charges of 2 cents per share for contractual
obligations and other costs associated with post-merger changes
in the strategic operations and related revaluations of
e prime’s energy marketing business.

Financing Costs and Preferred
Dividends

— Nonregulated
results include interest expense and preferred dividends, which
are incurred at the Xcel Energy and intermediate holding company
levels and are not directly assigned to individual subsidiaries.

Other

—
Other nonregulated results for 2000, which include the activity
of several nonregulated subsidiaries, were reduced by special
charges of 2 cents per share recorded during the third
quarter. These special charges include $10 million in asset
write-downs and losses resulting from various other nonregulated
business ventures that are no longer being pursued after the
merger.

In addition, other nonregulated results for 1999
were reduced by special charges of 3 cents per share for a
valuation write-down of Xcel Energy’s investment in the
publicly traded common stock of CellNet Data Systems, Inc.

Income Statement Analysis

Electric Utility and Commodity Trading
Margins

— Electric fuel
and purchased power expense tend to vary with changing retail
and wholesale sales requirements and unit cost changes in fuel
and purchased power. Due to fuel cost recovery mechanisms for
retail customers in several states, most fluctuations in energy
costs do not materially affect electric utility margin. However,
certain fuel cost recovery mechanisms in various jurisdictions
do not allow for complete recovery of all variable production
expenses. Therefore, higher costs can result in adverse margin
and earnings impacts. Electric utility margins reflect the
impact of sharing energy costs and savings relative to a target
cost per delivered kilowatt-hour and certain trading margins
under the incentive cost adjustment (ICA) ratemaking mechanism
in Colorado.

Xcel Energy’s commodity trading operations
are conducted mainly by PSCo (electric) and e prime (gas).
Electric trading activity, initially recorded at PSCo, is
partially redistributed to NSP-Minnesota and SPS pursuant to a
Joint Operating Agreement approved by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC). Trading revenue and costs do not
include the revenue and production costs associated with energy
produced from Xcel Energy’s generation assets or energy and
capacity purchased to serve native load. Trading



revenue and costs associated with NRG’s
operations are included in nonregulated margins. Margins from
these generating assets for utility operations are included in
short-term wholesale amounts, discussed later. Trading margins
reflect the impact of sharing certain trading margins under the
ICA. The following table details electric utility, short-term
wholesale and electric and gas trading revenue and margin.

2001 Comparison to

— Electric utility
revenue increased by approximately $500 million, or
9.8 percent, in 2001. Electric utility margin increased by
approximately $47 million, or 1.6 percent, in 2001.
These revenue and margin increases were due to sales growth,
weather conditions in 2001 and the recovery of conservation
incentives in Minnesota. Increased conservation incentives,
including the resolution of the 1998 dispute (as discussed
previously) and accrued 2001 incentives, increased revenue and
margin by $49 million. Temperatures during 2001 increased
revenue by approximately $23 million and margin by
approximately $13 million. These increases were partially
offset by increases in fuel and purchased power costs, which are
not completely recoverable from customers in Colorado due to
various cost-sharing mechanisms. Revenue and margin also were
reduced in 2001 by approximately $30 million due to rate
reductions in various jurisdictions agreed to as part of the
merger approval process, in comparison to approximately
$10 million in 2000.



Short-term wholesale revenue increased by
approximately $221 million, or 39.0 percent, in 2001.
Short-term wholesale margin increased $83 million, or
90.2 percent, in 2001. These increases are due to the
expansion of Xcel Energy’s wholesale marketing operations
and favorable market conditions for the first six months of
2001, including strong prices in the Western markets,
particularly before the establishment of price caps and other
market changes.

Electric and gas commodity trading margins,
including proprietary (i.e. non-asset based) electric
trading and natural gas trading, increased approximately
$48 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, compared
with the same period in 2000. The increase reflects an expansion
of Xcel Energy’s trading operations and favorable market
conditions, including strong prices in the Western markets,
particularly before the establishment of pricing caps and other
market changes.

Short-term wholesale margins and electric
commodity trading margins for 2002 are not expected to be as
strong as margins in 2001 due to declines in energy prices.
Margins for the second half of 2001 are more indicative of
expected trends in 2002. During 2001, in some Western markets,
publicly available power prices ranged from $80 to more than
$350 per megawatt-hour on a monthly average. Currently, publicly
available forward price information for 2002 for these same
areas ranges from $60 to $110 per megawatt-hour on a monthly
average.

2000 Comparison to

— Electric utility
revenue increased by approximately $865 million, or
20.4 percent, in 2000. Electric utility margin increased by
approximately $88 million, or 3.0 percent, in 2000.
Electric margins reflect the impact of customer sharing due to
the ICA mechanism. Weather-normalized retail sales increased by
3.6 percent in 2000, increasing retail revenue by
approximately $153 million and retail margin by
approximately $88 million. More favorable temperatures
during 2000 increased retail revenue by approximately
$36 million and retail margin by approximately
$22 million. These retail margin increases were partially
offset by regulatory adjustments relating to the earnings test
in Texas and system reliability and availability in Colorado,
and to rate reductions agreed to as part of the merger approval
process.

Short-term wholesale margin increased due to the
expansion of Xcel Energy’s wholesale marketing operations
and favorable market conditions.

Electric and gas commodity trading revenue
increased by a total of approximately $1.2 billion, and the
combined trading margin increased by approximately
$37 million in 2000. The increase in trading revenue and
margin is a result of the expansion of electric and natural gas
trading.

Gas Utility
Margins

— The following
table details the changes in gas utility revenue and margin. The
cost of gas tends to vary with changing sales requirements and
the unit cost of gas purchases. However, due to purchased gas
cost recovery mechanisms for retail customers, fluctuations in
the cost of gas have little effect on natural gas margin.

2001 Comparison to

— Gas revenue
increased by approximately $584 million, or
39.8 percent, for 2001, primarily due to increases in the
cost of natural gas, which are largely passed on to customers
and recovered through various rate adjustment clauses in most of
the jurisdictions in which Xcel Energy operates. Gas margin
increased by approximately $14 million, or
2.7 percent, for 2001 due to sales growth and a rate
increase in Colorado. These gas revenue and margin increases
were partially offset by the impact of warmer temperatures in
2001, which decreased gas revenue by approximately
$38 million and gas margin by approximately
$16 million.

2000 Comparison to

— Gas revenue
increased by approximately $328 million, or
28.7 percent, in 2000, primarily due to increases in the
cost of natural gas, which are largely recovered through various



adjustment clauses in most of the jurisdictions
in which Xcel Energy operates. Gas margin increased by
approximately $63 million, or 13.8 percent, in 2000.
Temperatures during 2000 compared with 1999 increased gas
revenue by $82 million and gas margins by $33 million.
Customer growth also contributed to margin increases in 2000.

Nonregulated Operating
Margins

— The following
table details the changes in nonregulated revenue and margin.

2001 Comparison to

— Nonregulated
revenue and margin increased for 2001, largely due to NRG’s
acquisition of generating facilities, increased demand for
electricity, market dynamics, strong performance from existing
assets and higher market prices for electricity. Earnings from
equity investments for 2001 increased compared with 2000,
primarily due to increased equity earnings from NRG projects,
which offset lower equity earnings from Yorkshire Power. As a
result of a sales agreement to sell the majority of its
investment in Yorkshire Power, Xcel Energy did not record any
equity earnings from Yorkshire Power after January 2001.

2000 Comparison to

— Nonregulated and
other revenue increased by approximately $1.5 billion in
2000, largely due to NRG’s acquisition of generation
facilities during 2000 and the full-year impact of generating
assets acquired during 1999. Earnings from equity investments
increased by approximately $71 million in 2000, primarily
due to increased equity earnings from NRG projects. Nonregulated
margin increased by approximately $867 million in 2000,
largely due to NRG’s acquisition of generation facilities
during 2000.

Non-Fuel Operating Expense and Other
Items

— Other utility
operating and maintenance expense for 2001 increased by
approximately $60 million, or 4.1 percent, compared
with 2000. The change is largely due to increased plant outages,
higher nuclear operating costs, bad debt reserves reflecting
higher energy prices, increased costs due to customer growth and
higher performance-based incentive costs.

Other utility operating and maintenance expense
for 2000 increased by approximately $69 million, or
5.0 percent, compared with 1999. The increase is largely
due to the timing of outages at the Monticello and Prairie
Island nuclear plants and at the Sherco coal-fired power plant,
increased bad debt reserves related to wholesale and retail
customers, higher nuclear operating costs and higher
employee-related costs.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased
$157 million, or 19.8 percent, in 2001 and
$113 million, or 16.6 percent, in 2000, primarily due
to acquisitions of generating facilities by NRG and increased
additions to utility plant.

Interest expense increased $125 million, or
19 percent, in 2001 and $243 million, or
58.7 percent, in 2000, primarily due to increased debt
levels to finance several asset acquisitions by NRG.

Interest income and other — net
increased by approximately $54 million for the year ended
Dec. 31, 2001, compared with the same period in 2000. This
increase was primarily the result of a credit swap at NRG, NRG
mark-to-market gains on foreign debt, NRG interest income due to
increased affiliate receivables related to loans to West Coast
Power and gains from the sale of PSCo assets.

As discussed in Note 8 to the Financial
Statements, Xcel Energy’s effective tax rate before
extraordinary items was 28.0 percent for the year ended
Dec. 31, 2001, and 35.8 percent for the same period in
2000. The change in the effective tax rate reflects changes in
the 2001 effective tax rate at NRG and the non-deductibility of
certain merger costs in 2000. As discussed previously,
NRG’s annual effective tax rate for



2001 declined due to higher energy tax credits,
the implementation of state tax planning strategies and a higher
percentage of NRG’s overall earnings derived from foreign
projects in lower tax jurisdictions.

Weather

—
Xcel Energy’s earnings can be significantly affected by
weather. Unseasonably hot summers or cold winters increase
electric and natural gas sales, but also can increase expenses,
which may not be fully recoverable. Unseasonably mild weather
reduces electric and natural gas sales, but may not reduce
expenses, which affects overall results. The following
summarizes the estimated impact on the earnings of the utility
subsidiaries of Xcel Energy due to temperature variations from
historical averages.

•

Weather in 2001 had minimal impact on earnings
	per share.

•

Weather in 2000 increased earnings by an
	estimated 1 cent per share.

•

Weather in 1999 decreased earnings by an
	estimated 9 cents per share.

Factors Affecting Results of
Operations

Xcel Energy’s utility revenues depend on
customer usage, which varies with weather conditions, general
business conditions and the cost of energy services. Various
regulatory agencies approve the prices for electric and gas
service within their respective jurisdictions. In addition, Xcel
Energy’s nonregulated businesses are becoming a more
significant factor in Xcel Energy’s earnings. The
historical and future trends of Xcel Energy’s operating
results have been and are expected to be affected by the
following factors:

General Economic
Conditions

— The slower
United States economy, and the global economy to a lesser
extent, may have a significant impact on Xcel Energy’s
operating results. Current economic conditions have resulted in
a decline in the forward price curve for energy and may decrease
the need for additional power supply. Xcel Energy expects the
economic conditions to have a significant impact on commodity
trading margins, which are not expected to be as strong as those
experienced in 2001. In addition, certain operating costs, such
as insurance and security, have increased due to the economy and
the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. We do not believe
these events will affect our access to insurance markets.
However, Xcel Energy could experience other significant impacts
from a weakened economy.

Utility Industry Changes and
Restructuring

— The
structure of the electric and natural gas utility industry
continues to change. Merger and acquisition activity over the
past few years has been significant as utilities combine to
capture economies of scale or establish a strategic niche in
preparing for the future. Some regulated utilities are divesting
generation assets. All utilities are required to provide
nondiscriminatory access to the use of their transmission
systems.

In December 2001, the FERC approved Midwest
Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO) as the
Midwest independent system operator responsible for operating
the wholesale electric transmission system. Accordingly, in
compliance with the FERC’s Order No. 2000, Xcel Energy
turned over operational control of its transmission system to
MISO in January 2002.

Some states have begun to allow retail customers
to choose their electricity supplier, and many other states are
considering retail access proposals. However, the experience of
the state of California in instituting competition, as well as
the bankruptcy filing of Enron, have caused delays in industry
restructuring.

Major issues that must be addressed include
mitigating market power, divestiture of generation capacity,
transmission constraints, legal separation, refinancing of
securities, modification of mortgage indentures, implementation
of procedures to govern affiliate transactions, investments in
information technology and the pricing of unbundled services,
all of which have significant financial implications. Xcel
Energy cannot predict the outcome of restructuring proceedings
in the electric utility jurisdictions it serves at this time.
The resolution of these matters may have a significant impact on
the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of
Xcel Energy. For more information on the delay of restructuring
for SPS in Texas and New Mexico, see Note 12 to the
Financial Statements.

In addition, industry restructuring may impact
the wholesale power markets, in which NRG operates. The
independent system operators who oversee most of the wholesale
power markets have in the past imposed,



and may in the future continue to impose, price
limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the
volatility in these markets. For example, the independent system
operator for the New York Power Pool and the California
independent system operator have recently imposed price
limitations. These types of price limitations and other
mechanisms in New York, California, the New England Power Pool
and elsewhere may adversely impact the profitability of
NRG’s generation facilities that sell energy into the
wholesale power markets. Finally, the regulatory and legislative
changes that have recently been enacted in a number of states in
an effort to promote competition are novel and untested in many
respects. These new approaches to the sale of electric power
have very short operating histories, and it is not yet clear how
they will operate in times of market stress or pressure, given
the extreme volatility and lack of meaningful long-term price
history in many of these markets and the imposition of price
limitations by independent system operators.

Enron
Impacts

— Industry
changes also may be implemented as a result of the bankruptcy
filing of Enron, a large energy company. Such changes may be
invoked by various regulatory agencies, including but not
limited to the SEC, the FERC or state regulatory agencies.
Management is unable to predict the impact of such changes, if
any, on any component of the energy industry. See additional
discussion in Note 15 to the Financial Statements.

California Power
Market

— NRG operates in
and sells to the wholesale power market in California. During
2000, the inability of certain California utilities to recover
rising energy costs through regulated prices charged to retail
customers created financial difficulties. The California
utilities have appealed to state agencies and regulators for the
opportunity to be reimbursed for costs incurred that are not
currently recoverable through the existing rate structure.
Absent such relief, some of the utilities have indicated they
may be unable to continue to service their debt or otherwise pay
obligations, or would consider discontinuing energy service to
customers to avoid incurring costs that are not recoverable.
However, the extent and timing of such financial support that
will be made available to California utilities is unknown at
this time .

See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for
a description of lawsuits against NRG and other power producers
and marketers involving the California electricity markets and a
discussion of Xcel Energy and NRG’s receivables related to
the California power market.

Critical Accounting
Policies

— Preparation
of financial statements and related disclosures in compliance
with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires
the application of appropriate technical accounting rules and
guidance, as well as the use of estimates. The application of
these policies necessarily involves judgments regarding future
events, including the likelihood of success of particular
projects, legal and regulatory challenges and anticipated
recovery of costs. These judgments, in and of themselves, could
materially impact the financial statements and disclosures based
on varying assumptions, which may be appropriate to use. In
addition, the financial and operating environment also may have
a significant effect, not only on the operation of the business,
but on the results reported through the application of
accounting measures used in preparing the financial statements
and related disclosures, even if the nature of the accounting
policies applied have not changed. The following is a list of
accounting policies that are most significant to the portrayal
of Xcel Energy’s financial condition and results, and that
require management’s most difficult, subjective or complex
judgments. Each of these has a higher likelihood of resulting in
materially different reported amounts under different conditions
or using different assumptions.

Accounting Policy

Judgments/Uncertainties Affecting Application

See Additional Discussion At

Regulatory Mechanisms & Cost Recovery

• External regulator decisions,
	requirements and regulatory environment

• Anticipated future regulatory decisions and their
	impact

• Impact of deregulation and competition on ratemaking
	process and ability to recover costs

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:
	Factors Affecting Results of Operations

• Utility Industry Changes and Restructuring

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

• Note 1

• Note 12

• Note 15



Regulation

—
Xcel Energy is a registered holding company under the PUHCA. As
a result, Xcel Energy, its utility subsidiaries and certain of
its nonutility subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation
by the SEC under the PUHCA with respect to issuances and sales
of securities, acquisitions and sales of certain utility
properties and intra-system sales of certain goods and services.
In addition, the PUHCA generally limits the



ability of registered holding companies to
acquire additional public utility systems and to acquire and
retain businesses unrelated to the utility operations of the
holding company. Xcel Energy believes that it has adequate
authority (including financing authority) under existing SEC
orders and regulations for it and its subsidiaries to conduct
their businesses as proposed during 2002 and will seek
additional authorization when necessary.

The electric and natural gas rates charged to
customers of Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries are
approved by the FERC and the regulatory commissions in the
states in which they operate. The rates are generally designed
to recover plant investment, operating costs and an allowed
return on investment. Xcel Energy requests changes in rates for
utility services through filings with the governing commissions.
Because comprehensive rate changes are requested infrequently in
some states, changes in operating costs can affect Xcel
Energy’s financial results. In addition to changes in
operating costs, other factors affecting rate filings are sales
growth, conservation and demand-side management efforts and the
cost of capital.

Most of the retail rate schedules for Xcel
Energy’s utility subsidiaries provide for periodic
adjustments to billings and revenues to allow for recovery of
changes in the cost of fuel for electric generation, purchased
energy, purchased natural gas and, in Minnesota and Colorado,
conservation and energy management program costs. In Minnesota
and Colorado, changes in electric capacity costs are not
recovered through these rate adjustment mechanisms. For
Wisconsin electric operations, where automatic cost-of-energy
adjustment clauses are not allowed, the biennial retail rate
review process and an interim fuel-cost hearing process provide
the opportunity for rate recovery of changes in electric fuel
and purchased energy costs in lieu of a cost-of-energy
adjustment clause. In Colorado, PSCo has an ICA mechanism that
allows for an equal sharing among customers and shareholders of
certain fuel and energy costs and certain gains and losses on
trading margins.

Regulated public utilities are allowed to record
as regulatory assets certain costs that are expected to be
recovered from customers in future periods and to record as
regulatory liabilities certain income items that are expected to
be refunded to customers in future periods. In contrast,
nonregulated enterprises would expense these costs and recognize
the income in the current period. If restructuring or other
changes in the regulatory environment occur, Xcel Energy may no
longer be eligible to apply this accounting treatment and may be
required to eliminate such regulatory assets and liabilities
from its balance sheet. Such changes could have a material
adverse effect on Xcel Energy’s results of operations in
the period the write-off is recorded.

At Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy reported on
its balance sheet regulatory assets of approximately
$502 million and regulatory liabilities of approximately
$484 million that would be recognized in the income
statement in the absence of regulation. In addition to a
potential write-off of regulatory assets and liabilities,
restructuring and competition may require recognition of certain
stranded costs not recoverable under market pricing. Xcel Energy
currently does not expect to write off any stranded costs unless
market price levels change or cost levels increase above market
price levels. See Notes 1 and 17 to the Financial
Statements for further discussion of regulatory deferrals.

Merger Rate
Agreements

— As part of
the merger approval process, Xcel Energy agreed to reduce its
rates in several jurisdictions. The discussion below summarizes
the rate reductions in Colorado, Minnesota, Texas and New Mexico.

As part of the merger approval process in
Colorado, PSCo agreed to:



•

develop a QSP for the natural gas operations to
	be effective for calendar years 2002 through 2007.

As part of the merger approval process in
Minnesota, NSP-Minnesota agreed to:

As part of the merger approval process in Texas,
SPS agreed to:

•

guarantee annual merger savings credits of
	approximately $4.8 million and amortize merger costs
	through 2005;

•

retain the current fuel-recovery mechanism to
	pass along fuel cost savings to retail customers; and

•

comply with various service quality and
	reliability standards, covering service installations and
	upgrades, light replacements, customer service call centers and
	electric service reliability.

As part of the merger approval process in
New Mexico, SPS agreed to:

PSCo Performance-Based Regulatory
Plan

— The Colorado
Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) established an electric PBRP
under which PSCo operates. The major components of this
regulatory plan include:

•

an annual electric earnings test with the sharing
	between customers and shareholders of earnings in excess of the
	following limits:

•

a 10.50-percent return on equity for 2002

•

no earnings sharing for 2003

•

an annual electric earnings test with the sharing
	of earnings in excess of the return on equity set in the 2002
	rate case for 2004 through 2006

•

an electric QSP that provides for bill
	credits to customers if PSCo does not achieve certain
	performance targets relating to electric reliability and
	customer service through 2006;

•

a gas QSP that provides for bill credits to
	customers if PSCo does not achieve certain performance targets
	relating to gas leak repair time and customer service through
	2007; and

•

an ICA that provides for the sharing of energy
	costs and savings relative to an annual baseline cost per
	delivered kilowatt-hour. According to the terms of the merger
	rate agreement in Colorado, the annual baseline cost will be
	reset in 2002, based on a 2001 test year.

PSCo regularly monitors and records as necessary
an estimated customer refund obligation under the earnings test.
In April of each year following the measurement period, PSCo
files its proposed rate adjustment under the PBRP. The CPUC
conducts proceedings to review and approve these rate
adjustments annually. PSCo has estimated no customer refund
obligation for 2001 under the earnings test. In November 2000,
the CPUC ruled on the unresolved issues related to the 1998
earnings test that will result in the reduction of customer
rates by $5.1 million effective January 2001.



During 2001, PSCo settled all unresolved issues
related to the 1999 and 2000 QSP electric reliability
performance measure. An accrual for related customer refunds of
$8.2 million was recorded and paid in 2001. PSCo has
recorded an estimated customer refund obligation for the 2001
QSP electric reliability performance measure of approximately
$4.2 million.

SPS Earnings
Test

— In Texas, until
June 2001, SPS operated under an earnings test in which excess
earnings were returned to the customer. In May 2000, SPS filed
its 1999 Earnings Report with the Public Utilities Commission of
Texas (PUCT), indicating no excess earnings. In September 2000,
the PUCT staff and the Office of Public Utility Counsel filed
with the PUCT a Notice of Disagreement, indicating adjustments
to SPS calculations, which would result in excess earnings.
During 2000, SPS recorded an estimated obligation of
approximately $11.4 million for 1999 and 2000. In February
2001, the PUCT ruled on the disputed issues in the 1999 report
and found that SPS had excess earnings of $11.7 million.
This decision was appealed by SPS to the District Court. On
Dec. 11, 2001, SPS entered into an overall settlement of
all earnings issues for 1999 through 2001, which reduced the
excess earnings for 1999 to $7.3 million and found that
there were no excess earnings for 2000 or through June 2001. The
settlement also provided that the remaining excess earnings for
1999 could be used to offset approved transition costs that SPS
is seeking to recover in a pending case at the PUCT. The PUCT
approved the overall settlement on Jan. 10, 2002.

Tax
Matters

— As further
discussed in Note 15 to the Financial Statements, a
subsidiary of PSCo is working with the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) to resolve an income-tax dispute regarding deductions for
loan interest expense related to company owned life insurance
(COLI). Late in 2001, Xcel Energy received a technical advice
memorandum from the IRS, which communicated a position adverse
to PSCo. After consultation with tax counsel, it is Xcel
Energy’s position that the IRS determination is not
supported by tax law. Although the ultimate outcome is uncertain
at this time, management believes the resolution of this matter
will not have a material adverse impact on Xcel Energy’s
financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In
addition, pending resolution of this matter, annual earnings
will continue to include tax benefits associated with the COLI
policy loan interest deductions. Should the IRS ultimately
prevail on this issue, tax and interest payable through
Dec. 31, 2001 would reduce earnings by an estimated
$197 million (after tax) or 57 cents per share. In
2002, these tax benefits are expected to contribute
approximately $31 million, or 9 cents per share, to
Xcel Energy earnings.

Environmental
Matters

— Our
environmental costs include payments for nuclear plant
decommissioning, storage and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear
fuel, disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, remediation of
contaminated sites and monitoring of discharges to the
environment. A trend of greater environmental awareness and
increasingly stringent regulation has caused, and may continue
to cause, slightly higher operating expenses and capital
expenditures for environmental compliance. NRG’s
acquisition of existing generation facilities will tend to
increase nonutility costs for environmental compliance.

In addition to nuclear decommissioning and spent
nuclear fuel disposal expenses, costs charged to our operating
expenses for environmental monitoring and disposal of hazardous
materials and wastes were approximately:

•

$146 million in 2001

•

$144 million in 2000

•

$128 million in 1999

We expect to expense approximately
$161 million per year for 2002-2006 for similar costs.
However, the precise timing and amount of environmental costs,
including those for site remediation and disposal of hazardous
materials, are currently unknown.



Capital expenditures on environmental
improvements at our regulated facilities, which include the
costs of constructing spent nuclear fuel storage casks, were
approximately:

•

$136 million in 2001

•

$57 million in 2000

•

$126 million in 1999

We expect to incur approximately $41 million
in capital expenditures for compliance with environmental
regulations in 2002 and approximately $156 million for
2002-2006. See Notes 15 and 16 to the Financial Statements
for further discussion of our environmental contingencies.

Impact of Nonregulated
Investments

— Xcel
Energy’s earnings from nonregulated operations have
increased significantly due to acquisitions, primarily at NRG.
Xcel Energy expects to continue investing in nonregulated
projects, including domestic and international power production
projects through NRG, natural gas marketing and trading through
e prime and construction projects through Utility Engineering.
Xcel Energy’s nonregulated businesses may carry a higher
level of risk than its traditional utility businesses due to a
number of factors, including:

•

competition, operating risks, dependence on
	certain suppliers and customers, and domestic and foreign
	environmental and energy regulations;

•

partnership and government actions and foreign
	government, political, economic and currency risks; and

•

development risks, including uncertainties prior
	to final legal closing.

Xcel Energy’s earnings from nonregulated
subsidiaries, other than NRG, also include investments in
international projects (primarily in Argentina) through Xcel
Energy International, and broadband communications systems
through Seren. Management currently intends to hold and operate
these investments, but is evaluating their strategic fit in Xcel
Energy’s business portfolio. As of Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel
Energy’s investment in Seren was approximately
$232 million. Seren had capitalized $190 million for
plant in service and had incurred another $60 million for
construction work in progress for these systems at Dec. 31,
2001. Xcel Energy International’s investment in Argentina
is $102 million. Given the political and economic climate
in Argentina, Xcel Energy continues to closely monitor the
investment for asset impairment. Currently, management believes
that no impairment exists.

Some of Xcel Energy’s nonregulated
subsidiaries have project investments (as listed in Note 11
to the Financial Statements) consisting of minority interests,
which may limit the financial risk, but also limit the ability
to control the development or operation of the projects. In
addition, significant expenses may be incurred for projects
pursued by Xcel Energy’s subsidiaries that do not
materialize. The aggregate effect of these factors creates the
potential for volatility in the nonregulated component of Xcel
Energy’s earnings. Accordingly, the historical operating
results of Xcel Energy’s nonregulated businesses may not
necessarily be indicative of future operating results.

Inflation

— Inflation
at its current level is not expected to materially affect Xcel
Energy’s prices or returns to shareholders. Since late
2001, the Argentine peso has been significantly devalued due to
the inflationary Argentine economy. Xcel Energy will continue to
experience related currency translation adjustments through Xcel
Energy International. See further discussion at Note 15 to
the Financial Statements.

Pending Accounting Changes

SFAS
No. 142

— In
June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
approved the issuance of SFAS No. 142 —
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” This statement
requires new accounting for intangible assets, including
goodwill. Intangible assets with finite lives will be amortized
over their economic useful lives and periodically reviewed for
impairment. Goodwill will no longer be amortized to comply with
the provisions of SFAS No. 142. Instead, goodwill and
intangible assets that will not be



amortized are to be tested for impairment
annually and on an interim basis if an event occurs or a
circumstance changes between annual tests that may reduce the
fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. An
impairment test is required to be performed within six months of
the date of adoption, and the first annual impairment test must
be performed in the year the statement is initially adopted.

As required, Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries
adopted SFAS No. 142 on Jan. 1, 2002. At Dec. 31,
2001, Xcel Energy had unamortized intangible assets of
$166 million, including $69 million of goodwill,
mainly at its nonregulated subsidiaries. These amounts and all
intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the future will be
accounted for under the new accounting standard. The new
accounting standard is expected to initially increase earnings
by an immaterial amount due to the elimination of regular
amortization expense, but in the future could cause periodic
reductions in earnings when impairment write-downs of goodwill
and/or intangible assets are required. Expense recognized for
amortization of goodwill in 2001 was $4 million. Xcel
Energy does not expect to recognize any asset impairments as a
result of adopting SFAS No. 142 in the first quarter of
2002.

SFAS
No. 143

— In
June 2001, the FASB approved the issuance of SFAS
No. 143 — “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations.” This statement will require Xcel Energy to
record its future nuclear plant decommissioning obligations as a
liability at fair value with a corresponding increase to the
carrying value of the related long-lived asset. The liability
will be increased to its present value each period, and the
capitalized cost will be depreciated over the useful life of the
related long-lived asset. If at the end of the asset’s life
the recorded liability differs from the actual obligations paid,
SFAS No. 143 requires that a gain or loss be recognized at
that time.

Xcel Energy currently follows industry practice
by ratably accruing the costs for decommissioning over the
approved cost recovery period and including the accruals in
accumulated depreciation. At Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy
recorded and recovered in rates $623 million of
decommissioning obligations and had estimated discounted
decommissioning cost obligations of $878 million.

If Xcel Energy adopted the standard on
Jan. 1, 2002, the initial value of the liability, including
cumulative interest expense through that date, would have been
approximately $757 million, with a corresponding increase
to net plant assets of approximately $625 million. The
resulting cumulative effect adjustment for unrecognized
depreciation and other expenses under the new standard is
approximately $132 million. Management expects that the
entire transition amount would be recoverable in rates and,
therefore, would recognize an additional regulatory asset upon
adoption of SFAS No. 143 rather than incur a cumulative
effect charge against earnings.

SFAS No. 143 also will affect Xcel
Energy’s accrued plant removal costs for other generation,
transmission and distribution facilities for its utility
subsidiaries. Xcel Energy expects that these costs, which have
yet to be estimated, will be reclassified from accumulated
depreciation to regulatory liabilities based on the treatment of
these costs in rates. Xcel Energy plans to adopt SFAS
No. 143 as required on Jan. 1, 2003.

SFAS
No. 144

— In
October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144 —
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets,” which supersedes previous guidance for measurement
of asset impairments. SFAS No. 144 was adopted by Xcel
Energy as required on Jan. 1, 2002, and will be applied on
a prospective basis. Xcel Energy does not expect to recognize
any asset impairments as a result of adopting SFAS No. 144
in the first quarter of 2002.

Derivatives, Risk Management and Market
Risk

Business and Operational
Risk

— Xcel Energy
and its subsidiaries are exposed to commodity price risks in
their generation, retail distribution and energy trading
operations. In certain jurisdictions, purchased power expenses
and natural gas costs are recovered on a dollar-for-dollar
basis. However, in other jurisdictions, we are exposed to market
price risk for the purchase and sale of electric energy and
natural gas. In such jurisdictions, we recover our purchased
power expenses and natural gas costs based on fixed price limits
or under negotiated sharing mechanisms.



Commodity price risk is managed by entering into
purchase and sales commitments for electric power and natural
gas, long-term contracts for coal supplies and fuel oil and
derivative financial instruments. Xcel Energy’s risk
management policy allows us to manage the market price risk
within our rate-regulated operations to the extent such exposure
exists. Management is limited under the policy to enter into
only transactions that reduce market price risk where the rate
regulation jurisdiction does not already provide for
dollar-for-dollar recovery. One exception to this policy exists
in which we use various physical contracts and derivative
instruments to reduce the cost of natural gas we provide to our
retail customers even though the regulatory jurisdiction
provides dollar-for-dollar recovery of actual costs. This
jurisdiction allows us to recover the gains and losses on
derivative instruments used to reduce our exposure to market
price risk.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to
market price risk for the sale of electric energy and the
purchase of fuel resources, including coal, natural gas and fuel
oil used to generate the electric energy within its nonregulated
operations. Xcel Energy manages this market price risk by
entering into firm power sales agreements for approximately 60
to 75 percent of its electric capacity and energy from each
generation facility, using contracts with terms ranging from one
to 25 years. In addition, we manage the market price risk
covering the fuel resource requirements to provide the electric
energy by entering into purchase commitments and derivative
instruments for coal, natural gas and fuel oil as needed to meet
fixed priced electric energy requirements. Xcel Energy’s
risk management policy allows us to manage the market price
risks and provides guidelines for the level of price risk
exposure that is acceptable within our operations.

Xcel Energy is exposed to market price risk for
the sale of electric energy and the purchase of fuel resources
used to generate the electric energy from our equity method
investments that own electric operations. Xcel Energy manages
this market price risk through our involvement with the
management committee or board of directors of each of these
ventures. Our risk management policy does not cover the
activities conducted by the ventures. However, other policies
are adopted by the ventures as necessary and mandated by the
equity owners.

Interest Rate
Risk

— Xcel Energy
and its subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations in interest
rates where we enter into variable rate debt obligations to fund
certain power projects being developed or purchased. Exposure to
interest rate fluctuations is mitigated by entering into
derivative instruments known as interest rate swaps, caps,
collars and put or call options. These contracts reduce exposure
to interest rate volatility and result in primarily fixed rate
debt obligations when taking into account the combination of the
variable rate debt and the interest rate derivative instrument.
Xcel Energy’s risk management policy allows us to reduce
interest rate exposure from variable rate debt obligations.

At Dec. 31, 2001 and 2000, a 100 basis point
change in the benchmark rate on Xcel Energy’s variable debt
would impact net income by approximately $29.9 million and
$15.8 million, respectively. See Note 13 to the
Financial Statements for a discussion of Xcel Energy and its
subsidiaries’ interest rate swaps.

Currency Exchange
Risk

— Xcel Energy
and its subsidiaries have certain investments in foreign
countries exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. The
foreign currency exchange risk includes the risk relative to the
recovery of our net investment in a project as well as the risk
relative to the earnings and cash flows generated from such
operations. Xcel Energy manages its exposure to changes in
foreign currency by entering into derivative instruments as
determined by management. Our risk management policy provides
for this risk management activity.

As discussed in Note 18 to the Financial
Statements, Xcel Energy has substantial investments in foreign
projects (through NRG and other subsidiaries), which expose us
to currency translation risk. Cumulative translation adjustments
(included in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’
Equity as Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income) experienced to
date have been material and may continue to occur at levels
significant to our financial position. As of Dec. 31, 2001,
NRG had two foreign currency exchange contracts with notional
amounts of $46.3 million. If the contracts had been
discontinued on Dec. 31, 2001, NRG would have owed the
counterparties approximately $2.4 million.

Trading
Risk

— Xcel Energy
and its subsidiaries conduct various trading operations and
power marketing activities including the purchase and sale of
electric capacity and energy and natural gas. The trading



operations are conducted both in the United
States and Europe with primary focus on specific market regions
where trading knowledge and experience have been obtained. Xcel
Energy’s risk management policy allows management to
conduct the trading activity within approved guidelines and
limitations as approved by our risk management committee made up
of management personnel not involved in the trading operations.

Our trading operations and power marketing
activities measure the outstanding risk exposure to price
changes on transactions, contracts and obligations that have
been entered into but not closed using an industry standard
methodology known as Value-at-Risk (VaR). VaR expresses the
potential loss in fair value on the outstanding transactions,
contracts and obligations over a particular period of time, with
a given confidence interval under normal market conditions. Xcel
Energy utilizes the variance/covariance approach in
calculating VaR. The VaR model employs a 95-percent
confidence interval level based on historical price movement,
lognormal price distribution assumption and various holding
periods of five days and three days for electricity and two days
for natural gas.

As of Dec. 31, 2001, the calculated VaRs
were:

(a)

Short-term wholesale — North primarily
	represents NSP-Minnesota.

(b)

Short-term wholesale — South primarily
	represents PSCo. Measurement of short-term wholesale —
	South VaR began in October 2001.

As of Dec. 31, 2000, the VaRs were:

(c)

Amounts have been restated for consistency with
	Dec. 31, 2001, assuming similar holding periods in the VaR
	calculations.

Previously, Xcel Energy calculated VaR using a
21-day holding period, as shown below. As markets mature and
gain liquidity, shorter holding periods more accurately reflect
the risk. In 2001, Xcel Energy changed its holding period for
natural gas from 21 days to two days because the gas
trading market is mature and traders can liquidate positions in
one or two days. The electricity market is still relatively
immature and less liquid than the gas market, so Xcel Energy
uses a five-day holding period in its electricity VaR
calculation. Xcel Energy’s revised holding periods are
generally consistent with current industry standard practice.



As of Dec. 31, 2000, the calculated VaRs
were:

Credit
Risk

— In addition to
the risks discussed previously, Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries
are exposed to credit risk in our risk management activities.
Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the
nonperformance by a counterparty of its contractual obligations.
As Xcel Energy continues to expand its natural gas and power
marketing and trading activities, its exposure to credit risk
and counterparty default may increase. Xcel Energy and its
subsidiaries maintain credit policies intended to minimize
overall credit risk and actively monitor these policies to
reflect changes and scope of operations.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries conduct standard
credit reviews for all of our counterparties. Xcel Energy
employs additional credit risk control mechanisms when
appropriate, such as letters of credit, parental guarantees and
standardized master netting agreements that allow for offsetting
of positive and negative exposures. The credit exposure is
monitored and, when necessary, the activity with a specific
counterparty is limited until credit enhancement is provided.
See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of
NRG’s receivables related to the California power market
and a discussion of our exposure to Enron’s bankruptcy.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash Flows

Cash provided by operating activities increased
during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to the higher net
income, depreciation and improved working capital. Cash provided
by operating activities increased during 2000, compared with
1999, primarily due to improved working capital.

Cash used in investing activities increased
during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to increased
levels of nonregulated capital expenditures and asset
acquisitions, primarily at NRG. The increase was partially
offset by Xcel Energy’s sale of the majority of its
investment in Yorkshire Power. Cash used in investing activities
increased during 2000, compared with 1999, primarily due to
acquisitions of existing generating facilities by NRG.

Cash provided by financing activities increased
during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to increased
short-term borrowings and net long-term debt issuances, mainly
to fund NRG acquisitions. Cash provided by financing activities
increased during 2000, compared with 1999, primarily due to the
issuance of debt to finance NRG asset acquisitions in 2000.

See discussion of trends, commitments and
uncertainties with the potential for future impact on cash flow
and liquidity under Capital Sources.



Capital Requirements

Capital Expenditures and Nonregulated
Investments

— The
estimated cost as of Dec. 31, 2001, of the capital
expenditure programs of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries and
other capital requirements for the years 2002, 2003 and 2004 are
shown in the table below (Millions of dollars).

The capital expenditure programs of Xcel Energy
are subject to continuing review and modification. Actual
utility construction expenditures may vary from the estimates
due to changes in electric and natural gas projected load
growth, the desired reserve margin and the availability of
purchased power, as well as alternative plans for meeting Xcel
Energy’s long-term energy needs. In addition, Xcel
Energy’s ongoing evaluation of merger, acquisition and
divestiture opportunities to support corporate strategies,
address restructuring requirements and comply with future
requirements to install emission-control equipment may impact
actual capital requirements. For more information, see
Notes 12 and 15 to the Financial Statements.

Xcel Energy’s subsidiaries expect to invest
significant amounts in nonregulated projects in the future.
Financing requirements for nonregulated project investments,
including NRG, will vary depending on the success, timing and
level of involvement in projects currently under consideration.
These investments could cause significant changes to the capital
requirement estimates for nonregulated projects and property.
Long-term financing may be required for such investments. Xcel
Energy’s investment in exempt wholesale generators and
foreign utility companies, which includes NRG and other Xcel
Energy subsidiaries, is currently limited to 50 percent of
consolidated retained earnings, as a result of the PUHCA
restrictions. At Dec. 31, 2001, such investments were
37.7 percent of consolidated retained earnings. Xcel Energy
requested an increase in the limit to 100 percent in the
first quarter of 2002.

NRG expects to invest approximately
$1.6 billion in 2002 for nonregulated projects and
property, excluding acquisitions. NRG’s future capital
requirements may vary significantly. For 2002, NRG will require
additional capital of approximately $1.8 billion for
acquisitions of existing generation facilities, including
FirstEnergy Corp. generating assets and the Conectiv fossil
assets. This level of NRG spending for 2002 (and the levels
shown in the table above for 2002 through 2004) reflect a
revised forecast after announcement of Xcel Energy’s tender
offer for NRG shares on Feb. 15, 2002. See further
discussion in Note 19 to the Financial Statements.

Contractual Obligations and Other
Commitments

— Xcel
Energy has a variety of contractual obligations and other
commercial commitments that represent prospective requirements
in addition to its capital expenditure programs. The following
is a summarized table of contractual obligations. See additional
discussion in the Consolidated Statements of Capitalization and
Notes 3, 4, 13 and 15 to the Financial Statements.



Common Stock
Dividends

— Xcel Energy
adopted a dividend of $1.50 per share on an annual basis for
2001. Future dividend levels will be dependent upon Xcel
Energy’s results of operations, financial position, cash
flows and other factors, and will be evaluated by the Xcel
Energy board of directors.

Capital Sources

Xcel Energy expects to meet future financing
requirements by periodically issuing long-term debt, short-term
debt, common stock and preferred securities to maintain desired
capitalization ratios. As a result of its registration as a
holding company under the PUHCA, Xcel Energy is required to
maintain a common equity ratio of 30 percent or higher in
its consolidated capital structure. For this purpose, common
equity (including minority interest) at Dec. 31, 2001 was
30.4 percent of total capitalization. Consolidated
project-related, nonrecourse debt at the subsidiary level is
included in calculating the overall capital structure of Xcel
Energy. As a result, Xcel Energy may experience constraints on
available capital sources that may be affected by factors
including earnings levels, project acquisitions and the
financing actions of our subsidiaries.

Over the long term, Xcel Energy’s equity
investments in and acquisitions of nonregulated projects may be
financed at the nonregulated subsidiary level from internally
generated funds or the issuance of subsidiary debt. The
financing needs are subject to continuing review and can change
depending on market and business conditions and changes, if any,
in the construction programs and other capital requirements of
Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries.

Short-Term Funding
Sources

— Xcel Energy
uses a number of sources to fulfill short-term funding needs.
Primary among these is operating cash flow, but also included
are short-term borrowing arrangements such as notes payable,
commercial paper and bank lines of credit. The amount and timing
of short-term funding needs depend in large part on financing
needs for utility construction expenditures and nonregulated
project investments, as discussed previously in Capital
Requirements. Another significant short-term funding need is the
dividend payment requirement, as discussed previously in Common
Stock Dividends.



Operating cash flow as a source of short-term
funding is reasonably likely to be affected by such operating
factors as weather; regulatory requirements including rate
recovery of costs, environmental regulation compliance and
industry deregulation; changes in the trends for energy prices
and supply; as well as operational uncertainties that are
difficult to predict. See further discussion of such factors
under Income Statement Analysis and Factors Affecting Results of
Operations.

Short-term borrowing as a source of short-term
funding is affected by access to reasonably priced capital
markets. This varies based on financial performance and existing
debt levels. If current debt levels are perceived to be at or
higher than standard industry levels or those levels that can be
sustained by current operating levels, access to reasonable
short-term borrowings could be limited. These factors are
evaluated by credit rating agencies that review Xcel Energy and
its subsidiary operations on an ongoing basis. The levels of
risk from limited access to cost-effective capital is
significantly higher at NRG, which could result in higher
short-term funding needs at Xcel Energy if NRG funding requires
an investment by Xcel Energy. For additional information on Xcel
Energy’s short-term borrowing arrangements, see Note 3
to the Financial Statements.

Xcel Energy’s access to capital markets is
dependent in part on credit agency reviews. In February 2002,
Moody’s Investor Services placed Xcel Energy’s
long-term debt and preferred securities ratings under review for
possible downgrade reflecting possible pressure on Xcel
Energy’s credit profile resulting from NRG restructuring.
In December 2001, Moody’s placed NRG’s corporate
securities under review for possible downgrade following
NRG’s announcement of its planned acquisition of generation
assets from FirstEnergy Corp. According to Moody’s, the
review will address NRG’s ability to finance the
acquisition and the effect of the acquisition on NRG’s
liquidity and coverage ratios. In December 2001, Fitch Ratings
placed Xcel Energy on ratings “watch negative.”
According to Fitch, the ratings watch for Xcel Energy reflects
the potential heavy capital needs of NRG and the possibility
that Xcel Energy may have to provide funding or credit support
on behalf of NRG. The securities of NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin
and SPS also were placed on ratings “watch negative”
in consideration of Fitch’s policy regarding the linkage
between ratings of subsidiaries and the parent. In February
2002, Fitch reaffirmed the status of Xcel Energy’s rating.
These ratings reflect the views of Moody’s and Fitch. A
security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold
securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time
by the rating company.

NRG Public
Offerings

— During
the second quarter of 2000, NRG completed an initial public
offering (IPO) of approximately 32.4 million shares priced
at $15 per share. Upon completion of the IPO, Xcel Energy owned
approximately 147.6 million shares of NRG class A
common stock, or 82 percent of NRG’s outstanding
shares. The offering’s net proceeds of approximately
$454 million were used exclusively by NRG for general
corporate purposes, including funding a portion of NRG’s
project investments and other capital requirements for 2000. No
proceeds of this offering were received by Xcel Energy. A
portion of the proceeds to NRG was accounted for as a gain
related to the reduction of Xcel Energy’s ownership in NRG.
This gain of $216 million was not recorded in earnings, but
consistent with Xcel Energy’s accounting policy, was
recorded as an increase in the common stock premium component of
stockholders’ equity.

In March 2001, NRG completed a secondary public
offering of 18.4 million shares of common stock at a price
of $27 per share and issued 11.5 million corporate units at
a price of $25 per unit. The net proceeds from the offering were
approximately $753 million, including $478 million
recorded in NRG’s common equity and $275 million
recorded in long-term debt instruments of NRG. The
offering’s net proceeds were used exclusively by NRG for
general corporate purposes, including funding a portion of
NRG’s project investments and other capital requirements.
No proceeds of these offerings were received by Xcel Energy.
This secondary offering caused Xcel Energy’s ownership
interest in NRG to decline from approximately 82 percent to
approximately 74 percent. A portion of the proceeds to NRG
($242 million) was accounted for as a gain related to the
reduction of Xcel Energy’s ownership in NRG, and was
recorded as an increase in the common stock premium component of
stockholders’ equity. Management has concluded that these
offerings of NRG stock do not affect Xcel Energy’s ability
to use the pooling-of-interests method of accounting for the
merger of NSP and NCE.



As a result of the merger to form Xcel Energy,
constraints related to the accounting treatment as a
pooling-of-interests transaction limit various actions,
including significant divestitures that can be taken or even
contemplated until August 2002. As a part of an evaluation of
potential strategies and to more fully respond to investor
questions, during 2001 management began investigating
restructuring options and constraints. In mid-2001, it was
determined that an additional restriction to future divestitures
exists. Under current tax rules, a June 1998 call of PSCo
nonvoting preferred stock that occurred shortly after the merger
of PSCo and SPS to form NCE triggered a five-year waiting period
beginning in June 1998 for any tax-free spin-offs. After
consultation with its legal counsel and tax advisors, Xcel
Energy concluded that this restriction would prevent a tax-free
spin of subsidiary stock, including NRG, until June 2003.

In December 2001, the Xcel Energy board
recommended that Xcel Energy management continue to monitor all
aspects of the future funding and structure of NRG, including
among other things, the amount and timing of expected capital
expenditures by NRG; the issuance by NRG of additional debt or
public equity and the infusion by Xcel Energy of additional
equity into NRG; and examine the possible reacquisition by Xcel
Energy of the outstanding public NRG stock. In February 2002,
Xcel Energy announced that its board of directors approved plans
to commence an exchange offer by which Xcel Energy would acquire
all of the outstanding publicly held shares of NRG in exchange
for shares of Xcel Energy common stock. See further discussion
in Note 19 to the Financial Statements.

NRG Financing
Capabilities

— As
part of the independent power producer sector, NRG has recently
been experiencing tightening credit standards. As discussed in
Note 19 to the Financial Statements, in response to this
situation, Xcel Energy is planning to provide NRG with financial
support. In addition, NRG is expected to slow its project growth
to lessen the need for external financing in the next few years.
If the plan is carried out as proposed, we anticipate that
NRG’s internally generated cash, available credit and
borrowing capabilities will be sufficient to meet its financing
needs in addition to Xcel Energy equity support.

NRG and its subsidiaries have entered into a
number of credit facilities. These credit facilities provided
access to a total of $4.8 billion and DEM 204 million
of funding at Dec. 31, 2001; at that date, borrowings of
$2.9 billion were outstanding pursuant to these facilities.
See further discussion in Notes 3 and 4 to the
Financial Statements. In addition, NRG has filed a shelf
registration to provide access to long-term debt financing, as
discussed later.

Impact of NRG Credit Rating
Downgrade

— NRG’s
unsecured credit rating is BBB- by Standard &
Poor’s and Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service. As noted
previously, in December 2001 Moody’s placed NRG’s
credit rating on review for potential downgrade. If Moody’s
subsequently downgraded NRG, many of the corporate guarantees
and commitments that it currently has in place would need to be
supported with letters of credit or cash collateral within 5 to
30 days. As of Dec. 31, 2001, the amount of collateral
required if NRG were downgraded was approximately
$960 million. Of the $960 million in collateral that
could be required, approximately $200 million relates to
NRG’s guarantees of debt service reserve accounts required
by some of its project-level financings, approximately
$400 million relates to NRG’s power marketing
activities; and $360 million would be required to support
the $2-billion NRG Finance Co. credit line. Because NRG places a
maximum amount on all of its guarantees in place to support
power marketing activities, and because of the relatively small
number of margin accounts in place, even very large changes in
market conditions would not have a material impact on the amount
of collateral that would be required for NRG’s power
marketing in the event of a downgrade.

In the event of a downgrade, NRG would expect to
meet the collateral obligations with cash on hand, available
credit lines provided under the revolving line of credit,
liquidity support from Xcel Energy and potentially from the
issuance of debt into the capital markets. NRG’s revolving
line of credit is expected to be increased from
$500 million to $1 billion in March 2002. In addition,
NRG will maintain its $125-million letter of credit facility and
plans to secure a funded $125-million credit facility for a
total credit facility of $1.25 billion to be available in
2002.

The Contingent Equity Guarantee could increase to
a maximum of $850 million by the end of 2002 as NRG further
utilizes the capacity of the NRG Finance Co. credit line.
Therefore, the amount of collateral required by the end of 2002
could increase to approximately $1.45 billion.



Registration
Statements

— Xcel
Energy’s Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance
of 1 billion shares of common stock. As of Dec. 31,
2001, Xcel Energy had approximately 346 million shares of
common stock outstanding. In addition, Xcel Energy’s
Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of
7 million shares of $100 par value preferred stock. On
Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy had approximately 1 million
shares of preferred stock outstanding. Registered securities
available for issuance are as follows:

In February 2002, Xcel Energy filed a
registration statement for the sale of $1 billion of common
stock and debt securities, of which a currently estimated
minimum of $400 million (representing 17.5 million
shares) is planned to be issued as common stock in the first
quarter of 2002 to provide financial support to NRG and pay down
short-term debt. An expansion of the issuance could occur based
on various market factors. See Note 19 to the Financial
Statements. In addition, Xcel Energy has an effective shelf
registration statement with the SEC under which
$400 million of senior debt securities are available for
issuance.

In April 2001, NSP-Minnesota filed a $600-million
long-term debt shelf registration with the SEC.

PSCo has an effective shelf registration
statement with the SEC under which $300 million of senior
debt securities are available for issuance.

In June 2001, NRG filed a shelf registration with
the SEC to sell up to $2 billion in debt securities, common
and preferred stock, warrants and other securities. NRG expects
to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which
may include the financing and development of new facilities,
working capital and debt reduction. NRG has approximately
$1.5 billion remaining available under this shelf
registration.



Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
	about Market Risk

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis
under Item 7, incorporated by reference.

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
	Data

See Item 14(a)-1 in Part IV for index
of financial statements included herein.

See Note 20 of Notes to Financial Statements
for summarized quarterly financial data.

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

Management is responsible for the preparation and
integrity of Xcel Energy’s financial statements. The
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include
some amounts that are based on management’s estimates and
judgment.

To fulfill its responsibility, management
maintains a strong internal control structure, supported by
formal policies and procedures that are communicated throughout
Xcel Energy. Management also maintains a staff of internal
auditors who evaluate the adequacy of and investigate the
adherence to these controls, policies and procedures.

Our independent public accountants have audited
the financial statements and have rendered an opinion as to the
statements’ fairness of presentation, in all material
respects, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States. During the audit, they obtained
an understanding of Xcel Energy’s internal control
structure and performed tests and other procedures to the extent
required by generally accepted auditing standards in the United
States.

The board of directors pursues its oversight role
with respect to Xcel Energy’s financial statements through
the Audit Committee, which is comprised solely of nonmanagement
directors. The committee meets periodically with the independent
public accountants, internal auditors and management to ensure
that all are properly discharging their responsibilities. The
committee approves the scope of the annual audit and reviews the
recommendations the independent public accountants have for
improving the internal control structure. The board of
directors, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, engages
the independent public accountants.

Both the independent public accountants and the
internal auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit
Committee.

/s/ WAYNE H. BRUNETTI

Wayne H. Brunetti

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ EDWARD J. MCINTYRE

Edward J. McIntyre

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Xcel Energy Inc.

Minneapolis, Minn.

Feb. 21, 2002



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS

To Xcel Energy Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets and statements of capitalization of Xcel Energy
Inc. (a Minnesota corporation) and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows
for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2001. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We did not audit the
consolidated financial statements of NRG Energy, Inc. for the
years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, included in the
consolidated financial statements of Xcel Energy Inc., which
statements reflect total assets and revenues of 45 percent
and 18 percent for 2001, respectively, and total assets and
revenues of 28 percent and 18 percent for 2000,
respectively, of the related consolidated totals. We also did
not audit the consolidated financial statements of Northern
States Power Co., for the year ended December 31, 1999,
included in the consolidated financial statements of Xcel Energy
Inc., which statements reflect total revenues of 44 percent
of the related consolidated totals. Those statements were
audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to
us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts
included for NRG Energy, Inc. and Northern States Power Co. for
the periods described above, is based solely on the reports of
the other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits and
the reports of other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the
reports of other auditors, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Xcel Energy Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2001, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.

As discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, effective January 1, 2001 Xcel Energy
Inc. and subsidiaries adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activity,” which changed its method
of accounting for certain commodity contracts and other
derivatives.

/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 21, 2002



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

of NRG Energy, Inc.:

In our opinion, the consolidated balance sheet
and the related consolidated statements of income, of
stockholders’ equity and cash flows present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of NRG Energy, Inc.
and its subsidiaries (not presented separately herein) at
December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2001 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company’s management; our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 14 to the financial
statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” on
January 1, 2001.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 21, 2002

To the Shareholders of Xcel Energy Inc.:

In our opinion, the consolidated statements of
income, of common stockholders’ equity and of cash flows
for the year ended December 31, 1999 of Northern States
Power Co. and its subsidiaries (not presented separately herein)
present fairly, in all material respects, the results of
operations and cash flows of Northern States Power Co. and its
subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 1999, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the company’s management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit of these
statements in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America, which require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

January 31, 2000, except as to Note 2,

which is as of February 22, 2000



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND

OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(a)

Did not affect cash flows

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
CAPITALIZATION









(a)

Resource recovery financing

(b)

Pollution control financing

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

1.

Summary of Significant Accounting
	Policies

Merger and Basis of
Presentation

— On Aug.
18, 2000, NSP and NCE merged and formed Xcel Energy Inc. Each
share of NCE common stock was exchanged for 1.55 shares of
Xcel Energy common stock. NSP shares became Xcel Energy shares
on a one-for-one basis. Cash was paid in lieu of any fractional
shares of Xcel Energy common stock. The merger was structured as
a tax-free, stock-for-stock exchange for shareholders of both
companies (except for fractional shares) and accounted for as a
pooling-of-interests. At the time of the merger, Xcel Energy
registered as a holding company under the PUHCA.

Pursuant to the merger agreement, NCE was merged
with and into NSP. NSP, as the surviving legal corporation,
changed its name to Xcel Energy. Also, as part of the merger,
NSP transferred its existing utility operations that were being
conducted directly by NSP at the parent company level to a newly
formed wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy, which was renamed
NSP-Minnesota.

Consistent with pooling accounting requirements,
results and disclosures for all periods prior to the merger have
been restated for consistent reporting with post-merger
organization and operations. All earnings per share amounts
previously reported for NSP and NCE have been restated for
presentation on an Xcel Energy share basis.

Business and System of
Accounts

— Xcel
Energy’s domestic utility subsidiaries are engaged
principally in the generation, purchase, transmission,
distribution and sale of electricity and in the purchase,
transportation, distribution and sale of natural gas. Xcel
Energy and its subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory
provisions of the PUHCA. The utility subsidiaries are subject to
regulation by the FERC and state utility commissions. All of the
utility companies’ accounting records conform to the FERC
uniform system of accounts or to systems required by various
state regulatory commissions, which are the same in all material
aspects.

Principles of
Consolidation

— Xcel
Energy directly owns six utility subsidiaries that serve
electric and natural gas customers in 12 states. These six
utility subsidiaries are NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo,
SPS, BMG and Cheyenne. Their service territories include
portions of Arizona, Colorado, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New
Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Wisconsin
and Wyoming. Xcel Energy’s regulated businesses also
include Viking and WGI.

Xcel Energy also owns or has an interest in a
number of nonregulated businesses, the largest of which is NRG
Energy, Inc., a publicly traded independent power producer. At
Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy indirectly owned approximately
74 percent of NRG. Xcel Energy owned 100 percent of
NRG until the second quarter of 2000, when NRG completed its
initial public offering, and 82 percent until a secondary
offering was completed in March 2001. See Note 19 to the
Financial Statements for further discussion of potential changes
in NRG ownership.

In addition to NRG, Xcel Energy’s
nonregulated subsidiaries include Utility Engineering
(engineering, construction and design), Seren Innovations, Inc.
(broadband telecommunications services), e prime inc. (natural
gas marketing and trading), Planergy International, Inc.
(enterprise energy management solutions), Eloigne Co.
(investments in rental housing projects that qualify for
low-income housing tax credits) and Xcel Energy International
Inc. (an international independent power producer).

Xcel Energy owns the following additional direct
subsidiaries, some of which are intermediate holding companies
with additional subsidiaries: Xcel Energy Wholesale Energy Group
Inc., Xcel Energy Markets Holdings Inc., Xcel Energy Ventures
Inc., Xcel Energy Retail Holdings Inc., Xcel Energy
Communications Group Inc., Xcel Energy WYCO Inc. and Xcel Energy
O & M Services Inc. Xcel Energy and its
subsidiaries collectively are referred to as Xcel Energy.

Xcel Energy uses the equity method of accounting
for its investments in partnerships, joint ventures and certain
projects. Under this method, we record our proportionate share
of pre-tax income as equity earnings from investments in
affiliates. We record our portion of earnings from international
investments after



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

subtracting foreign income taxes, if applicable.
In the consolidation process, we eliminate all significant
intercompany transactions and balances.

Revenue
Recognition

— Xcel
Energy records utility revenues based on a calendar month, but
reads meters and bills customers according to a cycle that
doesn’t necessarily correspond with the calendar
month’s end. To compensate, we record unbilled revenues for
an estimate of the energy usage from the monthly meter-reading
dates to the month’s end.

Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries have
various rate adjustment mechanisms in place that currently
provide for the recovery of certain purchased natural gas and
electric energy costs. These cost adjustment tariffs may
increase or decrease the level of costs recovered through base
rates and are revised periodically, as prescribed by the
appropriate regulatory agencies, for any difference between the
total amount collected under the clauses and the recoverable
costs incurred.

PSCo’s electric rates in Colorado are
adjusted under the ICA mechanism, which takes into account
changes in energy costs and certain trading revenues and
expenses that are shared with the customer. SPS’ rates in
Texas have fixed fuel factor and periodic fuel filing,
reconciling and reporting requirements, which provide cost
recovery. In New Mexico, SPS has recently reinstituted a monthly
fuel and purchased power cost recovery factor.
NSP-Wisconsin’s rates include a cost-of-energy adjustment
clause for purchased natural gas, but not for purchased
electricity or electric fuel. In Wisconsin, we can request
recovery of those electric costs prospectively through the rate
review process, which normally occurs every two years, and an
interim fuel-cost hearing process.

In Colorado, PSCo operates under an electric
Performance-Based Regulatory Plan, which results in an annual
earnings test. NSP-Minnesota and PSCo’s rates include
monthly adjustments for the recovery of conservation and energy
management program costs, which are reviewed annually.

Trading
Operations

— Beginning
with year-end 2000 reporting, Xcel Energy changed its policy for
the presentation of energy trading operating results.
Previously, trading margins were recorded net of costs in
electric and natural gas revenues. Xcel Energy currently reports
trading revenues separately from trading costs. 1999 results
have been reclassified for consistency with the 2000 and 2001
presentation.

Xcel Energy’s trading operations are
conducted mainly by PSCo (electric) and e prime (gas). The
results of the electric trading activity are initially recorded
at PSCo. Pursuant to a Joint Operating Agreement, approved by
the FERC as a part of the merger, the activity is then
apportioned to the other operating utilities of Xcel Energy.
Trading revenue and costs do not include the revenue and
production costs associated with energy produced from generation
assets or results from NRG. PSCo’s trading results include
the impacts of the ICA rate-sharing mechanism. For more
information, see Notes 13 and 14 to the Financial
Statements.

Property, Plant, Equipment and
Depreciation

— Property,
plant and equipment is stated at original cost. The cost of
plant includes direct labor and materials, contracted work,
overhead costs and applicable interest expense. The cost of
plant retired, plus net removal cost, is charged to accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Significant additions or
improvements extending asset lives are capitalized, while
repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred.
Maintenance and replacement of items determined to be less than
units of property are charged to operating expenses.

Xcel Energy determines the depreciation of its
plant by using the straight-line method, which spreads the
original cost equally over the plant’s useful life.
Depreciation expense, expressed as a percentage of average
depreciable property, was approximately 3.1 percent for the
year ended Dec. 31, 2001, and 3.3 percent for the
years ended Dec. 31, 2000 and 1999.

Property, plant and equipment includes
approximately $18 million and $25 million,
respectively, for costs associated with the engineering design
of the future Pawnee 2 generating station and certain water
rights obtained for another future generating station in
Colorado. PSCo is earning a return on these investments



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

based on its weighted average cost of debt in
accordance with a Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC)
rate order.

Allowance for Funds Used During
Construction (AFDC) and Capitalized
Interest

— AFDC, a
noncash item, represents the cost of capital used to finance
utility construction activity. AFDC is computed by applying a
composite pretax rate to qualified construction work in
progress. The amount of AFDC capitalized as a utility
construction cost is credited to other nonoperating income (for
equity capital) and interest charges (for debt capital). AFDC
amounts capitalized are included in Xcel Energy’s rate base
for establishing utility service rates. In addition to
construction-related amounts, AFDC also is recorded to reflect
returns on capital used to finance conservation programs in
Minnesota. Interest capitalized for all Xcel Energy entities (as
AFDC for utility companies) was approximately $56 million
in 2001, $23 million in 2000 and $19 million in 1999.

Decommissioning

— Xcel
Energy accounts for the future cost of
decommissioning — or permanently retiring —
its nuclear generating plants through annual depreciation
accruals using an annuity approach designed to provide for full
rate recovery of the future decommissioning costs. Our
decommissioning calculation covers all expenses, including
decontamination and removal of radioactive material, and extends
over the estimated lives of the plants. The calculation assumes
that NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin will recover those costs
through rates. For more information on nuclear decommissioning,
see Note 16 to the Financial Statements.

Nuclear Fuel
Expense

— Nuclear
fuel expense, which is recorded as our nuclear generating plants
use fuel, includes the cost of fuel used in the current period,
as well as future disposal costs of spent nuclear fuel. In
addition, nuclear fuel expense includes fees assessed by the
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for NSP-Minnesota’s
portion of the cost of decommissioning the DOE’s fuel
enrichment facility.

Environmental
Costs

— We record
environmental costs when it is probable Xcel Energy is liable
for the costs and we can reasonably estimate the liability. We
may defer costs as a regulatory asset based on our expectation
that we will recover these costs from customers in future rates.
Otherwise, we expense the costs. If an environmental expense is
related to facilities we currently use, such as
pollution-control equipment, we capitalize and depreciate the
costs over the life of the plant, assuming the costs are
recoverable in future rates or future cash flow.

We record estimated remediation costs, excluding
inflationary increases and possible reductions for insurance
coverage and rate recovery. The estimates are based on our
experience, our assessment of the current situation and the
technology currently available for use in the remediation. We
regularly adjust the recorded costs as we revise estimates and
as remediation proceeds. If we are one of several designated
responsible parties, we estimate and record only our share of
the cost. We treat any future costs of restoring sites where
operation may extend indefinitely as a capitalized cost of plant
retirement. The depreciation expense levels we can recover in
rates include a provision for these estimated removal costs.

Income
Taxes

— Xcel Energy
and its domestic subsidiaries, except NRG, file consolidated
federal and combined and separate state income tax returns. Due
to NRG’s 2001 public equity offering, NRG and its
subsidiaries will file a federal income tax return separate from
Xcel Energy for the period March 13, 2001 through
Dec. 31, 2001. Income taxes for consolidated or combined
subsidiaries are allocated to the subsidiaries based on separate
company computations of taxable income or loss. In accordance
with the PUHCA requirements, the holding company also allocates
its own net income tax benefits to its direct subsidiaries based
on the positive taxable income of each company in the
consolidated federal or combined state returns. Xcel Energy
defers income taxes for all temporary differences between pretax
financial and taxable income, and between the book and tax basis
of assets and liabilities. We use the tax rates that are
scheduled to be in effect when the temporary differences are
expected to turn around or reverse.

Due to the effects of past regulatory practices,
when deferred taxes were not required to be recorded, we account
for the reversal of some temporary differences as current income
tax expense. We defer investment



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

tax credits and spread their benefits over the
estimated lives of the related property. Utility rate regulation
also has created certain regulatory assets and liabilities
related to income taxes, which we summarize in Note 17 to
the Financial Statements. We discuss our income tax policy for
international operations in Note 8 to the Financial
Statements.

Foreign Currency
Translation

— Xcel
Energy’s foreign operations generally use the local
currency as their functional currency in translating
international operating results and balances to
U.S. currency. Foreign currency denominated assets and
liabilities are translated at the exchange rates in effect at
the end of a reporting period. Income, expense and cash flows
are translated at weighted-average exchange rates for the
period. We accumulate the resulting currency translation
adjustments and report them as a component of Other
Comprehensive Income in common stockholders’ equity. When
we convert cash distributions made in one currency to another
currency, we include those gains and losses in the results of
operations as a component of Other Nonoperating Income.

Derivative Financial
Instruments

— Xcel
Energy and its subsidiaries utilize a variety of derivatives,
including interest rate swaps and locks, foreign currency hedges
and energy contracts to reduce exposure to commodity price risk.
The energy contracts are both financial- and commodity-based in
the energy trading and energy nontrading operations. These
contracts consist mainly of commodity futures and options, index
or fixed price swaps and basis swaps.

On Jan. 1, 2001, Xcel Energy adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS)
No. 133 — “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activity,” as amended by SFAS
No. 137 and SFAS No. 138 (collectively referred to as
SFAS No. 133). For more information on the impact of SFAS
No. 133, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements.

For further discussion of Xcel Energy’s risk
management and derivative activities, see Note 13 and
Note 14 to the Financial Statements.

Use of
Estimates

— In recording
transactions and balances resulting from business operations,
Xcel Energy uses estimates based on the best information
available. We use estimates for such items as plant depreciable
lives, tax provisions, uncollectible amounts, environmental
costs, unbilled revenues and actuarially determined benefit
costs. We revise the recorded estimates when we get better
information or when we can determine actual amounts. Those
revisions can affect operating results. Each year we also review
the depreciable lives of certain plant assets and revise them if
appropriate.

Cash
Items

— Xcel Energy
considers investments in certain debt instruments with a
remaining maturity of three months or less at the time of
purchase to be cash equivalents. Those debt instruments are
primarily commercial paper and money market funds.

Restricted cash consists primarily of cash
collateral for letters of credit issued in relation to project
development activities and funds held in trust accounts to
satisfy the requirements of certain debt agreements. Restricted
cash is classified as a current asset as all restricted cash is
designated for interest and principal payments due within one
year.

Inventory

—
All inventory is recorded at average cost, with the exception of
natural gas in underground storage at PSCo, which is recorded
using last-in-first-out pricing.

Regulatory
Accounting

— Our
regulated utility subsidiaries account for certain income and
expense items using SFAS No. 71 —
“Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation.” Under SFAS No. 71:

•

we defer certain costs, which would otherwise be
	charged to expense, as regulatory assets based on our expected
	ability to recover them in future rates; and

•

we defer certain credits, which would otherwise
	be reflected as income, as regulatory liabilities based on our
	expectation they will be returned to customers in future rates.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

We base our estimates of recovering deferred
costs and returning deferred credits on specific ratemaking
decisions or precedent for each item. We amortize regulatory
assets and liabilities consistent with the period of expected
regulatory treatment.

Stock-Based Employee
Compensation

— We have
several stock-based compensation plans. We account for those
plans using the intrinsic value method. We do not record
compensation expense for stock options because there is no
difference between the market price and the purchase price at
grant date. We do, however, record compensation expense for
restricted stock awarded to certain employees, which is held
until the restriction lapses or the stock is forfeited. For more
information, see Note 9 to the Financial Statements.

NRG Development
Costs

— As NRG develops
projects, it expenses the development costs it incurs (for
professional services, permits, etc.) until a sales agreement or
letter of intent is signed and the project has received NRG
board approval. NRG capitalizes additional costs incurred at
that point. When a project begins to operate, NRG amortizes the
capitalized costs over either the life of the project’s
related assets or the revenue contract period, whichever is
less. If a project is terminated without becoming operational,
NRG expenses the capitalized costs in the period of the
termination.

Intangible Assets and Deferred Financing
Costs

— Goodwill results
when Xcel Energy purchases an entity at a price higher than the
underlying fair value of the net assets. At Dec. 31, 2001,
Xcel Energy had unamortized intangible assets of
$166 million, including $69 million of goodwill,
mainly at its nonregulated subsidiaries. The majority of these
intangible assets is associated with energy contracts and will
be amortized over the contract terms. Effective Jan. 1,
2002, Xcel Energy implemented SFAS No. 142. These amounts
and all intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the future
will be accounted for under the new accounting standard. The new
accounting can be expected to initially increase earnings due to
the elimination of amortization expense, but periodically causes
reductions in earnings when impairment write-downs of goodwill
and/or intangible assets are required.

Other assets also included deferred financing
costs, net of amortization, of approximately $154 million
at Dec. 31, 2001. We are amortizing these financing costs
over the remaining maturity periods of the related debt.

Reclassifications

—
We reclassified certain items in the 1999 and 2000 income
statements and the 2000 balance sheet to conform to the 2001
presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on net
income or earnings per share. Reported amounts for periods prior
to the merger have been restated to reflect the merger as if it
had occurred as of Jan. 1, 1999. The reclassifications were
primarily to conform the presentation of all consolidated Xcel
Energy subsidiaries to a standard corporate presentation.

2.     Special
Charges

2001 —
Restaffing

— During the
fourth quarter of 2001, Xcel Energy expensed pretax special
charges of $39 million, or 7 cents per share, for expected
staff consolidation costs. The charges related to severance
costs for utility operations resulting from the restaffing plans
of several operating and corporate support areas of Xcel Energy
relate primarily to nonbargaining positions. We accrued costs
for 500 staff terminations, which are expected to occur, mainly
in the first quarter of 2002, across all regions of Xcel
Energy’s service territory, but primarily in Minneapolis
and Denver. As of Jan. 31, 2002, 239 of these terminations
had occurred.

2001 — Postemployment
Benefits

— PSCo adopted
accrual accounting for postemployment benefits under SFAS
No. 112 — “Employers Accounting for
Postemployment Benefits” in 1994. The costs of these
benefits had been recorded on a pay-as-you-go basis and,
accordingly, PSCo recorded a regulatory asset in anticipation of
obtaining future rate recovery of these transition costs. PSCo
recovered its FERC jurisdictional portion of these costs. PSCo
requested approval to recover its Colorado retail natural gas
jurisdictional portion in a 1996 retail rate case and its retail
electric jurisdictional portion in the electric earnings test
filing for 1997.

In the 1996 rate case, the CPUC allowed recovery
of postemployment benefit costs on an accrual basis, but denied
PSCo’s request to amortize the transition costs regulatory
asset. PSCo appealed this decision to the



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Denver District Court. In 1998, the CPUC deferred
the final determination of the regulatory treatment of the
electric jurisdictional costs pending the outcome of PSCo’s
appeal on the natural gas rate case. On Dec. 16, 1999, the
Denver District Court affirmed the decision by the CPUC.

On July 2, 2001, the Colorado Supreme Court
affirmed the District Court decision. Accordingly, PSCo has
written off $23 million pretax, representing 4 cents per
share, of regulatory assets related to deferred postemployment
benefit costs as of June 30, 2001, since all means of
regulatory recovery have been denied.

2000 — Merger
Costs

— Upon
consummation of the merger in 2000, Xcel Energy expensed pretax
special charges totaling $241 million. These special
charges reduced Xcel Energy’s 2000 earnings by 52 cents per
share. Of these pretax special charges, $201 million, or 43
cents per share, was recorded during the third quarter of 2000,
and $40 million, or 9 cents per share, was recorded
during the fourth quarter of 2000.

The pretax charges included $199 million, or
44 cents per share, associated with the costs of merging
regulated operations. Of these pretax charges, $52 million
related to one-time transaction-related costs incurred in
connection with the merger of NSP and NCE and $147 million
pertained to incremental costs of transition and integration
activities associated with merging NSP and NCE to begin
operations as Xcel Energy. The pretax charges also included
$42 million, or 8 cents per share, of asset
impairments and other costs resulting from the post-merger
strategic alignment of Xcel Energy’s nonregulated
businesses. An allocation of the regulated portion of merger
costs was made to utility operating companies using a basis
consistent with prior regulatory filings, in proportion to
expected merger savings by company and consistent with service
company cost allocation methodologies utilized under the PUHCA
requirements.

The transition costs include approximately
$77 million for severance and related expenses associated
with staff reductions of 721 employees, 706 of whom were
released through Jan. 31, 2002. The staff reductions were
nonbargaining positions mainly in corporate and operations
support areas. Other transition and integration costs include
amounts incurred for facility consolidation, systems
integration, regulatory transition, merger communications and
operations integration assistance.

Accrued Special
Charges

— The following
table summarizes activity related to accrued special charges in
2001 and 2000.

*

Reported on the balance sheet in other current
	liabilities.

1999 — EMI
Goodwill

— In 1999, Xcel
Energy expensed pretax special charges of approximately
$17 million, or 4 cents per share, to write off all
goodwill that was recorded by its subsidiary EMI for its
acquisitions of Energy Masters Corp. in 1995 and Energy
Solutions International in 1997. This charge reflected a revised
business outlook based on the levels of contract signings by EMI.

1999 — Loss on Marketable
Securities

— During
1999, Xcel Energy expensed pretax special charges of
approximately $14 million, or 3 cents per share, for
valuation write-downs on its investment in the publicly traded
common stock of CellNet Data Systems, Inc. In October 1999,
CellNet announced it was experiencing financial difficulties and
in February 2000, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection. CellNet’s assets were subsequently acquired by
another company.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

3.

Short-Term Borrowings

Notes Payable and Commercial
Paper

— Information
regarding notes payable and commercial paper for the years ended
Dec. 31, 2001 and 2000 is:

Bank Lines of Credit and Compensating Bank
Balances

— At
Dec. 31, 2001, we and our subsidiaries had approximately
$6.9 billion and DEM 203.6 million in credit
facilities with several banks. We pay for these lines of credit
with a combination of fee payments and compensating balances.

The lines of credit for companies other than NRG
provide short-term financing in the form of bank loans and
letters of credit, but their primary purpose is support for
commercial paper borrowings. At Dec. 31, 2001, there were
no loans outstanding under these lines of credit. The borrowing
rate under these lines of credit is based on the 90-day London
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), a euro dollar rate margin, and
the amount of money borrowed. The rate that would have applied
at Dec. 31, 2001, if we had loans outstanding, would have
been between 2.18 percent and 2.505 percent.

At Dec. 31, 2001, NRG had three credit
facilities for short-term financing:

•

a $500-million recourse revolving credit facility
	under a commitment fee arrangement that matures in March 2002.
	This facility provided short-term financing in the form of bank
	loans. At Dec. 31, 2001, NRG had $170 million
	outstanding under this facility. In March 2002, the revolving
	credit facility will terminate. During the period ended
	Dec. 31, 2001, the facility bore interest at a floating
	rate based on LIBOR and prime rates throughout the period and
	had a weighted average interest rate of 5.89 percent,

•

a $40-million revolving credit facility that
	matures in March 2002. This is a facility of NRG’s South
	Central project and is nonrecourse to NRG. At Dec. 31,
	2001, NRG South Central had $40 million outstanding under
	this facility at 4.46 percent and

•

a $600-million unsecured term loan facility,
	which terminates on June 21, 2002. At Dec. 31, 2001,
	the aggregate amount outstanding under this facility was
	$600 million at a weighted average interest rate of
	3.94 percent.

NRG’s other credit facilities are used for
long-term financing. See discussion in Note 4 to the
Financial Statements.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

4.

Long-Term Debt

Except for SPS and other minor exclusions, all
property of our utility subsidiaries is subject to the liens of
their first mortgage indentures, which are contracts between the
companies and their bondholders. In addition, certain SPS
payments under its pollution-control obligations are pledged to
secure obligations of the Red River Authority of Texas.

There are annual sinking-fund requirements in our
utility subsidiaries’ first mortgage indentures, in the
amounts necessary to redeem 1 to 6.7 percent of the highest
principal amount of each series of first mortgage bonds at any
time outstanding, excluding series issued for pollution control
and resource recovery financings and certain other series
totaling $1.7 billion. NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo
and Cheyenne expect to satisfy substantially all of their
sinking fund obligations in accordance with the terms of their
respective indentures through the application of property
additions. SPS has no significant sinking fund requirements.

NSP-Minnesota’s 2011 series bonds are
redeemable upon seven-days notice at the option of the
bondholder. NSP-Minnesota also is potentially liable for
repayment of the 2019 series when the bonds are tendered, which
occurs each time the variable interest rates change. Because of
the terms that allow the holders to redeem these bonds on short
notice, we include them in the current portion of long-term debt
reported under current liabilities on the balance sheets.

NRG has several credit facilities used for
long-term financing:

The NRG Finance Co. I LLC facility is used
to finance the acquisition, development and construction of
power generating plants located in the United States and to
finance the acquisition of turbines for such facilities. The
facility is non-recourse to NRG other than its obligation to
contribute equity at certain times in respect of projects and
turbines financed under the facility.

On March 13, 2001, NRG completed the sale of
11.5 million “equity units” for an initial price
of $25 per unit. Each equity unit initially consists of a $25
NRG senior debenture (6.5 percent notes due May 16,
2006) and an obligation to acquire shares of NRG common stock no
later than May 18, 2004 at a price ranging from $27.00 to
$32.94 per share.

The $240 million NRG senior notes due
Nov. 1, 2013 are Remarketable or Redeemable Securities
(ROARS). At certain dates the notes must either be tendered to
and purchased by Credit Suisse Financial Products or redeemed by
NRG at prices discussed in the indenture. The notes are
unsecured debt that rank senior to all of NRG’s existing
and future subordinated indebtedness.

NRG’s $250 million issue of
8.7 percent ROARS due March 15, 2005 may be
remarketed by Bank of America, N.A. at a fixed rate of interest
through the maturity date or at a floating rate of interest for
up to one year and then at a fixed rate of interest through 2020.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Maturities and sinking fund requirements of
long-term debt are:


$

682 million


$

719 million


$

335 million


$

1,140 million


$

1,832 million

5.     Preferred
Stock

At Dec. 31, 2001, we had six series of
preferred stock outstanding, which were callable at our option
at prices ranging from $102 to $103.75 per share plus accrued
dividends.

The holders of our $3.60 series preferred stock
are entitled to three votes for each share held. The holders of
our other preferred stocks are entitled to one vote per share.
While dividends payable on the preferred stock of any series
outstanding is in arrears in an amount equal to four quarterly
dividends, the holders of preferred stocks, voting as a class,
are entitled to elect the smallest number of directors necessary
to constitute a majority of the board of directors and the
holders of common stock, voting as a class, are entitled to
elect the remaining directors.

The charters of some of our subsidiaries also
authorize the issuance of preferred shares; however, at this
time there are no such shares outstanding. This chart shows data
for first- and second-tier subsidiaries:

6.

Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of
        Subsidiary Trusts

In 1996, SPS Capital I, a wholly owned,
special-purpose subsidiary trust of SPS, issued
$100 million of 7.85 percent trust preferred
securities that mature in 2036. Distributions paid by the
subsidiary trust on the preferred securities are financed
through interest payments on debentures issued by SPS and held
by the subsidiary trust, which are eliminated in consolidation.
The securities are redeemable at the option of SPS after October
2001, at 100 percent of the principal amount plus accrued
interest. Distributions and redemption payments are guaranteed
by SPS.

In 1997, NSP Financing I, a wholly owned,
special-purpose subsidiary trust of NSP-Minnesota, issued
$200 million of 7.875 percent trust preferred
securities that mature in 2037. Distributions paid by the
subsidiary trust on the preferred securities are financed
through interest payments on debentures issued by NSP-Minnesota
and held by the subsidiary trust, which are eliminated in
consolidation. The preferred securities are redeemable at NSP
Financing I’s option at $25 per share beginning in 2002.
Distributions and redemption payments are guaranteed by
NSP-Minnesota.

In 1998, PSCo Capital Trust I, a wholly owned,
special-purpose subsidiary trust of PSCo, issued
$194 million of 7.60 percent trust preferred
securities that mature in 2038. Distributions paid by the
subsidiary trust on the preferred securities are financed
through interest payments on debentures issued by PSCo and held
by the subsidiary trust, which are eliminated in consolidation.
The securities are redeemable at the option of PSCo after May
2003 at 100 percent of the principal amount outstanding
plus accrued interest. Distributions and redemption payments are
guaranteed by PSCo.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The mandatorily redeemable preferred securities
of subsidiary trusts are consolidated in Xcel Energy’s
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Distributions paid to preferred
security holders are reflected as a financing cost in the
Consolidated Statements of Income along with interest charges.

7.

Joint Plant Ownership

The investments by Xcel Energy’s
subsidiaries in jointly owned plants and the related ownership
percentages as of Dec. 31, 2001, are:

NSP-Minnesota is part owner of Sherco 3, an
860-megawatt, coal-fired electric generating unit. NSP-Minnesota
is the operating agent under the joint ownership agreement.
NSP-Minnesota’s share of operating expenses for
Sherco 3 is included in the applicable utility components
of operating expenses. PSCo’s assets include approximately
320 megawatts of jointly owned generating capacity.
PSCo’s share of operating expenses and construction
expenditures are included in the applicable utility components
of operating expenses. NRG’s share of operating expenses
and construction expenditures are included in the applicable
nonregulated components of operating expenses. Each of the
respective owners is responsible for the issuance of its own
securities to finance its portion of the construction costs.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

8.

Income Taxes

Total income tax expense from operations differs
from the amount computed by applying the statutory federal
income tax rate to income before income tax expense. The reasons
for the difference are:

Income taxes comprise the following expense
(benefit) items:

Xcel Energy management intends to reinvest the
earnings from NRG’s foreign operations to the extent the
earnings are subject to current U.S. income taxes. Accordingly,
U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been
provided on a cumulative amount of unremitted earnings of
foreign subsidiaries of approximately $345 million and
$238 million at Dec. 31, 2001 and 2000. The additional
U.S. income tax and foreign withholding tax on the unremitted
foreign earnings, if repatriated, would be offset in part by
foreign tax credits. Thus, it is not practicable to estimate the
amount of tax that might be payable.

Xcel Energy management also intends to reinvest
the earnings of the Argentina operations of Xcel Energy
International, and therefore has not provided deferred taxes for
the effects of the currency devaluation discussed in
Note 15 to the Financial Statements. However, as a result
of management’s revised strategic plan for Yorkshire Power
to begin repatriation of earnings to the United States, Xcel
Energy provided deferred taxes of $20 million on unremitted
earnings of $55 million at Dec. 31, 2000. Due to the
sale of the majority of



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

its interest in Yorkshire Power during 2001, Xcel
Energy now accounts for its remaining investment under the cost
method.

The components of Xcel Energy’s net deferred
tax liability (current and noncurrent portions) at Dec. 31
were:

9.

Common Stock and Incentive Stock
	Plans

Incentive Stock
Plans

— Xcel Energy and
some of its subsidiaries have incentive compensation plans under
which stock options and other performance incentives are awarded
to key employees. The weighted average number of common and
potentially dilutive shares outstanding used to calculate our
earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of stock options
and other stock awards based on the treasury stock method. The
options normally have a term of 10 years and generally
become exercisable from three to five years after grant date or
upon specified circumstances. The tables below include awards
made by us and some of our predecessor companies, adjusted for
the merger stock exchange ratio and are presented on an Xcel
Energy share basis.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Stock Options and Performance Awards at
Dec. 31:

Certain employees also may be awarded restricted
stock under our incentive plans. We hold restricted stock until
restrictions lapse, generally from two to three years from the
date of grant. We reinvest dividends on the shares we hold while
restrictions are in place. Restrictions also apply to the
additional shares acquired through dividend reinvestment. We
granted 21,774 restricted shares in 2001, 58,690 restricted
shares in 2000 and 52,688 restricted shares in 1999.
Compensation expense related to these awards was immaterial.

The NCE/NSP merger was a “change in
control” under the NSP incentive plan, so all stock option
and restricted stock awards under that plan became fully vested
and exercisable as of the merger date. The NCE/NSP merger did
not constitute a change in control under the NCE incentive
plans, so there was no accelerated vesting of stock options
issued under them. When NCE and NSP merged, each outstanding NCE
stock option was converted to 1.55 Xcel Energy options.

We apply Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25 in accounting for our stock-based compensation and,
accordingly, no compensation cost is recognized for the issuance
of stock options as the exercise price of the options equals the
fair-market value of our common stock at the date of grant. If
we had used the SFAS No. 123 method of accounting, earnings
would have been reduced by approximately 1 cent per share
for 2001, 2 cents per share for 2000 and 1 cent per share for
1999.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The fair value of each option grant is estimated
on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing
Model with the following assumptions:

Dividend
Restrictions

— The
Articles of Incorporation of Xcel Energy place restrictions on
the amount of common stock dividends it can pay when preferred
stock is outstanding. Xcel Energy has outstanding preferred
stock. It could have paid nearly $2 billion in additional
common stock dividends before restrictions would apply.

In addition, NSP-Minnesota’s first mortgage
indenture places certain restrictions on the amount of cash
dividends it can pay to Xcel Energy, the holder of its common
stock. Even with these restrictions, NSP-Minnesota could have
paid more than $825 million in additional cash dividends on
common stock at Dec. 31, 2001.

Stockholder Protection Rights
Agreement

— On
June 28, 2001, Xcel Energy adopted a Stockholder Protection
Rights Agreement. Each share of Xcel Energy’s common stock
includes one shareholder protection right. Under the
agreement’s principal provision, if any person or group
acquires 15 percent or more of Xcel Energy’s
outstanding common stock, all other shareholders of Xcel Energy
would be entitled to buy, for the exercise price of $95 per
right, common stock of Xcel Energy having a market value equal
to twice the exercise price, thereby substantially diluting the
acquiring person’s or group’s investment. The rights
may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that
acquires 15 percent or more of Xcel Energy’s common
stock. The rights should not interfere with a transaction that
is in the best interests of Xcel Energy and its shareholders
because the rights can be redeemed prior to a triggering event
for $0.01 per right.

10.

Benefit Plans and Other Postretirement
	Benefits

Xcel Energy offers various benefit plans to its
benefit employees. Approximately 44 percent of benefit
employees are represented by several local labor unions under
several collective-bargaining agreements. At Dec. 31, 2001,
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin had 2,563 union employees
covered under a collective-bargaining agreement, which expires
at the end of 2004. PSCo had 1,979 union employees covered under
a collective-bargaining agreement, which expires in May 2003.
SPS had 742 union employees covered under a
collective-bargaining agreement, which expires in October 2002.

Pension
Benefits

— Xcel Energy
has several noncontributory, defined benefit pension plans that
cover almost all utility employees. Benefits are based on a
combination of years of service, the employee’s average pay
and Social Security benefits.

Xcel Energy’s policy is to fully fund into
an external trust the actuarially determined pension costs
recognized for ratemaking and financial reporting purposes,
subject to the limitations of applicable employee benefit and
tax laws. Plan assets principally consist of the common stock of
public companies, corporate bonds and U.S. government
securities.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

A comparison of the actuarially computed pension
benefit obligation and plan assets at Dec. 31, 2001 and
2000, for Xcel Energy plans on a combined basis is presented in
the following table.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The components of net periodic pension cost
(credit) for Xcel Energy plans are:

NRG also offers other noncontributory, defined
benefit pension plans that are sponsored by NRG and its
affiliates. For the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, the total
assets of such plans were $16 million and benefit
obligations were $37 million. The net recorded pension
liabilities for these plans were $19 million and annual
pension costs were $4 million.

Additionally, Xcel Energy maintains
noncontributory defined benefit supplemental retirement income
plans for certain qualifying executive personnel. Benefits for
these unfunded plans are paid out of Xcel Energy’s
operating cash flows.

Defined Contribution
Plans

— Xcel Energy
maintains 401(k) and other defined contribution plans that cover
substantially all employees. Total contributions to these plans
were approximately $29 million in 2001, $23 million in 2000
and $21 million in 1999.

Xcel Energy has a leveraged employee stock
ownership plan (ESOP) that covers substantially all employees of
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin. Xcel Energy makes contributions
to this noncontributory, defined contribution plan to the extent
it realizes tax savings from dividends paid on certain ESOP
shares. ESOP contributions have no material effect on Xcel
Energy earnings because the contributions are essentially offset
by the tax savings provided by the dividends paid on ESOP
shares. Xcel Energy allocates leveraged ESOP shares to
participants when it repays ESOP loans with dividends on stock
held by the ESOP.

Xcel Energy’s leveraged ESOP held
10.5 million shares of Xcel Energy common stock at the end
of 2001, 12.0 million shares of Xcel Energy common stock at
the end of 2000 and 11.3 million shares of Xcel Energy
common stock at the end of 1999. Xcel Energy excluded the
following uncommitted leveraged ESOP shares from earnings per
share calculations: 0.9 million in 2001, 0.7 million in
2000 and 0.5 million in 1999.

Postretirement Health Care
Benefits

— Xcel Energy
has contributory health and welfare benefit plans that provide
health care and death benefits to most Xcel Energy retirees. The
NSP plan was terminated for nonbargaining employees retiring
after 1998 and for bargaining employees retiring after 1999.

In conjunction with the 1993 adoption of SFAS
No. 106 — “Employers’ Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pension,” Xcel Energy
elected to amortize the unrecognized accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation on a straight-line basis over 20 years.

Regulatory agencies for nearly all of Xcel
Energy’s retail and wholesale utility customers have
allowed rate recovery of accrued benefit costs under SFAS
No. 106. PSCo transitioned to full accrual accounting for
SFAS No. 106 costs between 1993 and 1997, consistent with
the accounting requirements for rate-regulated enterprises. The
Colorado jurisdictional SFAS No. 106 costs deferred during
the transition period are being amortized to expense on a
straight-line basis over the 15-year period from 1998 to 2012.
NSP-Minnesota also



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

transitioned to full accrual accounting for SFAS
No. 106 costs, with regulatory differences fully amortized
prior to 1997.

Additionally, certain state agencies, which
regulate Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries, have issued
guidelines related to the funding of SFAS No. 106 costs.
SPS is required to fund SFAS No. 106 costs for Texas and
New Mexico jurisdictional amounts collected in rates, and PSCo
and Cheyenne are required to fund SFAS No. 106 costs in
irrevocable external trusts that are dedicated to the payment of
these postretirement benefits. Minnesota and Wisconsin retail
regulators require external funding of accrued SFAS No. 106
costs to the extent such funding is tax advantaged. Plan assets
held in external funding trusts principally consist of
investments in equity mutual funds, fixed-income securities and
cash equivalents.

A comparison of the actuarially computed benefit
obligation and plan assets at Dec. 31, 2001 and 2000, for
all Xcel Energy postretirement health care plans is presented in
the following table.

The assumed health care cost trend rate for 2001
is approximately 8.0 percent, decreasing gradually to
5.5 percent in 2007 and remaining level thereafter. A
1-percent increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate
would increase the estimated total accumulated benefit
obligation for Xcel Energy by approximately $72.3 million,
and the service and interest cost components of net periodic
postretirement benefit costs by



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

approximately $5.8 million. A 1-percent
decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate would
decrease the estimated total accumulated benefit obligation for
Xcel Energy by approximately $60.2 million, and the service
and interest cost components of net periodic postretirement
benefit costs by approximately $4.7 million.

The components of net periodic postretirement
benefit cost of all Xcel Energy’s plans are:

11.

Equity Investments and Asset
	Acquisitions

Xcel Energy’s nonregulated subsidiaries have
investments in various international and domestic energy
projects, and domestic affordable housing and real estate
projects. We use the equity method of accounting for such
investments in affiliates, which include joint ventures and
partnerships because the ownership structure prevents Xcel
Energy from exercising a controlling influence over the
operating and financial policies of the projects. Under this
method, Xcel Energy records its portion of the earnings or
losses of unconsolidated affiliates as equity earnings. A
summary of Xcel Energy’s significant equity method
investments is listed in the following table.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table summarizes financial
information for these projects, including interests owned by
Xcel Energy and other parties for the years ended Dec. 31:

Results of Operations

Financial Position

Yorkshire
Power

— During
February 2001, Xcel Energy reached an agreement to sell the
majority of its investment in Yorkshire Power to Innogy Holdings
plc. As a result of this sales agreement, Xcel Energy did not
record any equity earnings from Yorkshire Power after January
2001. In April 2001, Xcel Energy closed the sale of Yorkshire
Power. Xcel Energy has retained an interest of approximately
5.25 percent in Yorkshire Power to comply with
pooling-of-interests accounting requirements associated with the
merger of NSP and NCE in 2000. Xcel Energy received
approximately $366 million for the sale, which approximated
the book value of Xcel Energy’s investment.

NRG Asset
Acquisitions

— During
the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, NRG completed numerous
acquisitions of project assets and related liabilities. These
acquisitions have been recorded using the purchase method of
accounting. Accordingly, the purchase prices of each acquisition
have been preliminarily allocated to assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the
various dates of acquisition. These estimates will be adjusted
based upon completion of certain procedures, including third
party valuations. Operations of the acquired projects have been
included in Xcel Energy’s results of operations since the
respective dates of each acquisition.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following is a summary of the projects
acquired in 2001:

The respective purchase prices of these 2001
acquisitions have been allocated to the net assets of the
acquired NRG projects as follows:

12.

Electric Utility Restructuring —
        SPS

In the second quarter of 2000, SPS discontinued
regulatory accounting under SFAS No. 71 for the generation
portion of its business due to the issuance of a written order
by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) in May 2000,
addressing the implementation of electric utility restructuring.
SPS’ transmission and distribution business continued to
meet the requirements of SFAS No. 71, as that business was
expected to remain regulated. During the second quarter of 2000,
SPS wrote off its generation-related regulatory assets and other
deferred costs totaling approximately $19.3 million. This
resulted in an after-tax extraordinary charge of approximately
$13.7 million. During the third quarter of 2000, SPS
recorded an



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

extraordinary charge of $8.2 million before
tax, or $5.3 million after tax, related to the tender offer
and defeasance of first mortgage bonds. The first mortgage bonds
were defeased to facilitate the legal separation of generation,
transmission and distribution assets, which was expected to
eventually occur in 2001 under restructuring requirements in
effect in 2000.

In March 2001, the state of New Mexico enacted
legislation that amended its Electric Utility Restructuring Act
of 1999 and delayed customer choice until 2007. SPS has
requested recovery of its costs incurred to prepare for customer
choice in New Mexico. A decision on this and other matters is
pending before the New Mexico Public Regulation Commission.
SPS expects to receive future regulatory recovery of these costs.

In June 2001, the governor of Texas signed
legislation postponing the deregulation and restructuring of SPS
until 2007. This legislation amended the 1999 legislation,
Senate Bill No. 7 (SB-7), which provided for retail
electric competition to begin in Texas in January 2002. Under
the amended legislation, prior PUCT orders issued in connection
with the restructuring of SPS are considered null and void.
SPS’ restructuring and rate unbundling proceedings in Texas
have been terminated. In addition, under the legislation, SPS is
entitled to recover all reasonable and necessary expenditures
made or incurred before Sept. 1, 2001, to comply with SB-7.
As required, SPS filed an application during the fourth quarter
of 2001, requesting a rate rider to recover these costs incurred
preparing for customer choice. These proceedings are pending.

As a result of these recent legislative
developments, SPS reapplied the provisions of SFAS No. 71
for its generation business during the second quarter of 2001.
More than 95 percent of SPS’ retail electric revenues
are from operations in Texas and New Mexico. Because of the
delays to electric restructuring passed by Texas and New Mexico,
SPS’ previous plans to implement restructuring, including
the divestiture of generation assets, have been abandoned.
Accordingly, SPS will now continue to be subject to rate
regulation under traditional cost-of-service regulation,
consistent with its past accounting and ratemaking practices for
the foreseeable future (at least until 2007). In the second
quarter of 2001, SPS did not restore any regulatory assets or
other costs previously written off due to the uncertainty of
various regulatory issues, including transition plans to address
future rate recovery of SPS’ restructuring costs.

During the fourth quarter of 2001, SPS completed
a $500-million medium-term debt financing with the proceeds used
to reduce short-term borrowings that had resulted from the 2000
defeasance. In its regulatory filings and communications, SPS
has proposed to amortize its defeasance costs over the five-year
life of the refinancing, consistent with historical ratemaking,
and has requested incremental rate recovery of $25 million
of other restructuring costs in Texas and New Mexico, as
previously discussed. These nonfinancing restructuring costs
have been deferred and will be amortized in the future
consistent with rate recovery. Management believes it will be
allowed full recovery of its prudently incurred costs. Based on
these fourth-quarter events and the corresponding reduced
uncertainty surrounding the financial impacts of the delay in
restructuring, SPS restored certain regulatory assets totaling
$17.6 million as of Dec. 31, 2001, and reported
related after-tax extraordinary income of $11.8 million, or
3 cents per share. Regulatory assets previously written off in
2000 were restored only for items currently being recovered in
rates and items where future rate recovery is considered
probable.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.     Financial
Instruments

Fair Values

The estimated Dec. 31 fair values of Xcel
Energy’s recorded financial instruments are as follows:

For cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments, the carrying amount approximates fair value because
of the short maturity of those instruments. The fair values of
Xcel Energy’s long-term investments, mainly debt securities
in an external nuclear decommissioning fund, are estimated based
on quoted market prices for those or similar investments. The
fair value of notes receivable is based on expected future cash
flows discounted at market interest rates. The balance in notes
receivable consists primarily of fixed and variable rate notes
(interest rates ranging from 4.75 percent to
19.5 percent and maturities ranging from 2001 to 2024).
Notes receivable include a $319-million direct financing lease
related to a long-term sales agreement for NRG’s Schkopau
project, and other notes related to projects at NRG that are
generally secured by equity interests in partnerships and joint
ventures. The fair value of Xcel Energy’s long-term debt
and the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities are
estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or
similar issues, or the current rates for debt of the same
remaining maturities and credit quality.

The fair value estimates presented are based on
information available to management as of Dec. 31, 2001 and
2000. These fair value estimates have not been comprehensively
revalued for purposes of these financial statements since that
date and current estimates of fair values may differ
significantly from the amounts presented herein.

Guarantees

Xcel Energy had the following guarantees
outstanding as of Dec. 31, 2001:



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments

The following discussion briefly describes the
derivatives of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries and discloses
the respective fair values at Dec. 31, 2001. For more
detailed information regarding derivative financial instruments
and the related risks, see Note 14 to the Financial
Statements.

Interest Rate
Swaps

— As of
Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy had several interest rate swaps
converting project financing from variable-rate debt to
fixed-rate debt with a notional amount of approximately
$2.5 billion. The fair value of the swaps as of
Dec. 31, 2001 was a liability of approximately
$92 million.

As of Dec. 31, 2000, Xcel Energy had several
interest rate swaps converting project financing from
variable-rate debt to fixed-rate debt with a notional amount of
approximately $598 million. The fair value of the swaps as
of Dec. 31, 2000 was a liability of approximately
$36 million.

Electric Trading
Operations

— Xcel Energy
participates in the trading of electricity as a commodity. This
trading includes forward contracts, futures and options. Xcel
Energy makes purchases and sales at existing market points or
combines purchases with available transmission to make sales at
other market points. Options and hedges are used to either
minimize the risks associated with market prices, or to profit
from price volatility related to our purchase and sale
commitments.

Xcel Energy has recorded its physical trading
transactions on total contract purchases and total contract
sales known as the gross accounting method. All financial
derivative contracts and contracts that do not include physical
delivery are recorded at the amount of the gain or loss received
from the contract. The mark-to-market adjustments for these
transactions are appropriately reported in the Consolidated
Statement of Income in Electric and Gas Trading Revenues.

The fair value of Xcel Energy’s trading
contracts as of Dec. 31, 2001 is as follows:

*

Amounts do not include the impact of ratepayer
	sharing in Colorado.

The future maturities of Xcel Energy’s
trading contracts are as follows:

Regulated
Operations

— Xcel
Energy’s regulated energy marketing operation uses a
combination of energy and gas purchase for resale futures and
forward contracts, along with physical supply, to hedge market
risks in the energy market. At Dec. 31, 2001, the notional
value of these contracts was approximately $83.8 million.
The fair value of these contracts as of Dec. 31, 2001, was
a liability of approximately $24 million.

Nonregulated
Operations

— Xcel
Energy’s nonregulated operations uses a combination of
energy futures and forward contracts, along with physical
supply, to hedge market risks in the energy market. At
Dec. 31,



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

2001, the notional value of these contracts was
approximately $1.0 billion. The fair value of these
contracts as of Dec. 31, 2001, was an asset of
approximately $242.2 million.

Foreign
Currency

— Xcel Energy
and its subsidiaries have two foreign currency swaps to hedge or
protect foreign currency denominated cash flows. At
Dec. 31, 2001 and 2000, the net notional amount of these
contracts was approximately $46.3 million and
$8.8 million, respectively. The fair value of these
contracts as of Dec. 31, 2001 and 2000 was a liability of
approximately $2.4 million and $0.7 million,
respectively.

Letters of Credit

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries use letters of
credit, generally with terms of one or two years, to provide
financial guarantees for certain operating obligations. In
addition, NRG uses letters of credit for nonregulated equity
commitments, collateral for credit agreements, fuel purchase and
operating commitments, and bids on development projects. At
Dec. 31, 2001, there were $221.7 million in letters of
credit outstanding, including $169.7 million related to NRG
commitments. The contract amounts of these letters of credit
approximate their fair value and are subject to fees determined
in the marketplace.

14.

Derivative Valuation and Financial
	Impacts

Business and Operational
Risk

— Xcel Energy and
its subsidiaries are exposed to commodity price risk in their
generation, retail distribution and energy trading operations.
In certain jurisdictions, purchased power expenses and natural
gas costs are recovered on a dollar-for-dollar basis. However,
in other jurisdictions, we are exposed to market price risk for
the purchase and sale of electric energy and natural gas. In
such jurisdictions, we recover purchased power expenses and
natural gas costs based on fixed price limits or under
negotiated sharing mechanisms.

Commodity price risk is managed by entering into
purchase and sales commitments for electric power and natural
gas, long-term contracts for coal supplies and fuel oil and
derivative financial instruments. Xcel Energy’s risk
management policy allows us to manage the market price risk
within its rate-regulated operations to the extent such exposure
exists. Management is limited under the policy to enter into
only transactions that reduce market price risk where the rate
regulation jurisdiction does not already provide for
dollar-for-dollar recovery. One exception to this policy exists
in which we use various physical contracts and derivative
instruments to reduce the cost of natural gas we provide to our
retail customers even though the regulatory jurisdiction
provides dollar-for-dollar recovery of actual costs. This
jurisdiction allows us to recover the gains and losses on
derivative instruments used to reduce our exposure to market
price risk.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to
market price risk for the sale of electric energy and the
purchase of fuel resources, including coal, natural gas and fuel
oil used to generate the electric energy within its nonregulated
operations. Xcel Energy manages this market price risk by
entering into firm power sales agreements for approximately 60
to 75 percent of its electric capacity and energy from each
generation facility using contracts with terms ranging from one
to 25 years. In addition, we manage the market price risk
covering the fuel resource requirements to provide the electric
energy by entering into purchase commitments and derivative
instruments for coal, natural gas and fuel oil as needed to meet
fixed priced electric energy requirements. Xcel Energy’s
risk management policy allows us to manage the market price
risks and provides guidelines for the level of price risk
exposure that is acceptable within our operations.

Xcel Energy is exposed to market price risk for
the sale of electric energy and the purchase of fuel resources
used to generate the electric energy from our equity method
investments that own electric operations. Xcel Energy manages
this market price risk through our involvement with the
management committee or board of directors of each of these
ventures. Our risk management policy does not cover the
activities conducted by the ventures. However, other policies
are adopted by the ventures as necessary and mandated by the
equity owners.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Interest Rate
Risk

— Xcel Energy and
its subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates
where we enter into variable rate debt obligations to fund
certain power projects being developed or purchased. Exposure to
interest rate fluctuations is mitigated by entering into
derivative instruments known as interest rate swaps, caps,
collars and put or call options. These contracts reduce exposure
to interest rate volatility and result in primarily fixed rate
debt obligations when taking into account the combination of the
variable rate debt and the interest rate derivative instrument.
Xcel Energy’s risk management policy allows us to reduce
interest rate exposure from variable rate debt obligations.

Foreign Currency
Risk

— Xcel Energy and
its subsidiaries have certain investments in foreign countries
exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. The foreign
currency exchange risk includes the risk relative to the
recovery of our net investment in a project as well as the risk
relative to the earnings and cash flows generated from such
operations. Xcel Energy manages its exposure to changes in
foreign currency by entering into derivative instruments as
determined by management. Our risk management policy provides
for this risk management activity.

Trading
Risk

— Xcel Energy and
its subsidiaries conduct various trading operations and power
marketing activities including the purchase and sale of electric
capacity and energy and natural gas. The trading operations are
conducted both in the United States and Europe with primary
focus on specific market regions where trading knowledge and
experience have been obtained. Xcel Energy’s risk
management policy allows management to conduct the trading
activity within approved guidelines and limitations as approved
by our risk management committee made up of management personnel
not involved in the trading operations.

Accounting
Change

— On Jan. 1,
2001, Xcel Energy adopted SFAS No. 133. This statement
requires that all derivative instruments as defined by SFAS
No. 133 be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value
unless exempted. Changes in a derivative instrument’s fair
value must be recognized currently in earnings unless the
derivative has been designated in a qualifying hedging
relationship. The application of hedge accounting allows a
derivative instrument’s gains and losses to offset related
results of the hedged item in the income statement, to the
extent effective. SFAS No. 133 requires that the hedging
relationship be highly effective and that a company formally
designate a hedging relationship to apply hedge accounting.

A fair value hedge requires that the effective
portion of the change in the fair value of a derivative
instrument be offset against the change in the fair value of the
underlying asset, liability or firm commitment being hedged.
That is, fair value hedge accounting allows the offsetting gain
or loss on the hedged item to be reported in an earlier period
to offset the gain or loss on the derivative instrument. A cash
flow hedge requires that the effective portion of the change in
the fair value of a derivative instrument be recognized in Other
Comprehensive Income, and reclassified into earnings in the same
period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects
earnings. The ineffective portion of a derivative
instrument’s change in fair value is recognized currently
in earnings.

Xcel Energy formally documents its hedge
relationships, including, among other things, the identification
of the hedging instrument and the hedged transaction, as well as
the risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking
the hedged transaction. Derivatives are recorded in the balance
sheet at fair value. Xcel Energy also formally assesses, both at
inception and at least quarterly thereafter, whether the
derivative instruments being used are highly effective in
offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the
hedged items.

The adoption of SFAS No. 133 on Jan. 1,
2001, resulted in an earnings impact of less than
$1 million, which is not being reported separately as a
cumulative effect of accounting change due to immateriality. In
addition, upon adoption of SFAS No. 133, Xcel Energy
recorded a net transition loss of approximately
$28.8 million in Other Comprehensive Income.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The components of SFAS No. 133 impacts on
Xcel Energy’s Other Comprehensive Income, included in
stockholders’ equity, are detailed in the following table.

The components of the gain for SFAS No. 133
impacts on Xcel Energy’s income statement for the year
ended Dec. 31, 2001, are detailed in the following table.
The amounts below exclude our gains and losses from trading
activities.

Xcel Energy records the fair value of its
derivative instruments in its Consolidated Balance Sheet as
separate line items noted as Derivative Instruments Valuation
for assets and liabilities as well as current and noncurrent.

Normal Purchases or Normal Sales

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries enter into fixed
price contracts for the purchase and sale of various commodities
for use in our business operations. SFAS No. 133 requires a
company to evaluate these contracts to determine whether the
contracts are derivatives. Certain contracts that literally meet
the definition of a derivative may be exempted from SFAS
No. 133 as normal purchases or normal sales. Normal
purchases and normal sales are contracts that provide for the
purchase or sale of something other than a financial instrument
or derivative instrument that will be delivered in quantities
expected to be used or sold over a reasonable period in the
normal course of business. Contracts that meet the requirements
of normal are documented as normal and exempted from the
accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 133.

Xcel Energy evaluates all of its contracts within
the regulated and nonregulated operations when such contracts
are entered into to determine if they are derivatives and if so,
if they qualify and meet the normal designation requirements
under SFAS No. 133. None of the contracts entered into
within the trading operations are considered normal.

Normal purchases and normal sales contracts are
accounted for as executory contracts as required under other
generally accepted accounting principles.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Cash Flow Hedges

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries enter into
derivative instruments to manage our exposure to changes in
commodity prices. These derivative instruments take the form of
fixed price, floating price or index sales or purchases and
options, such as puts, calls and swaps. These derivative
instruments are designated as cash flow hedges for accounting
purposes and the changes in the fair value of these instruments
are recorded as a component of Other Comprehensive Income. At
Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy had various commodity related
contracts extending through 2018. Earnings on these cash flow
hedges are recorded as the hedged purchase or sales transaction
is completed. This could include the physical sale of electric
energy or the usage of natural gas to generate electric energy.
Xcel Energy expects to reclassify into earnings during 2002 net
gains from Other Comprehensive Income of approximately
$18.0 million.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries enter into
interest rate swap instruments that effectively fix the interest
payments on certain floating rate debt obligations. These
derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges for
accounting purposes and the change in the fair value of these
instruments is recorded as a component of Other Comprehensive
Income. Xcel Energy expects to reclassify into earnings during
2002 net losses from Other Comprehensive Income of approximately
$5.6 million.

Xcel Energy records hedge effectiveness based on
the nature of the item being hedged. Hedging transactions for
the sales of electric energy are recorded as a component of
revenue, hedging transactions for fuel used in energy generation
are recorded as a component of fuel costs and hedging
transactions for interest rate swaps are recorded as a component
of interest expense.

The net gain (loss) recognized in earnings for
derivative instruments that have been designated and qualify as
cash flow hedging instruments are detailed in the following
table.

Fair Value Hedges and Hedges of Foreign
Currency Exposure of a Net Investment in Foreign
Operations

To preserve the U.S. dollar value of
projected foreign currency cash flows, Xcel Energy, through NRG,
may hedge, or protect those cash flows if appropriate foreign
hedging instruments are available. Xcel Energy expects to
reclassify into earnings during 2002 net losses from Other
Comprehensive Income of approximately $2.2 million.

Derivatives Not Qualifying for Hedge
Accounting

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have various
trading operations that enter into derivative instruments. These
derivative instruments are accounted for on a mark-to-market
basis in the Consolidated Statements of Income. All financial
derivative instruments are recorded at the amount of the gain or
loss from the transaction within Operating Revenues on the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

In order to preserve the U.S. dollar value
of projected foreign currency cash flows from European trading
operations, we enter into various foreign currency exchange
contracts that are not designated as accounting hedges but are
considered economic hedges. Accordingly, the changes in fair
value of these derivatives are reported in Other Nonoperating
Income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

15.

Commitments and Contingencies

Commitments

Legislative Resource
Commitments

— In 1994,
NSP-Minnesota received Minnesota legislative approval for
additional on-site temporary spent fuel storage facilities at
its Prairie Island nuclear power plant, provided NSP-Minnesota
satisfies certain requirements. Seventeen dry cask containers
were approved. As of Dec. 31, 2001, NSP-Minnesota had
loaded 14 of the containers. The Minnesota Legislature
established several energy resource and other commitments for
NSP-Minnesota to obtain the Prairie Island temporary nuclear
fuel storage facility approval. These commitments can be met by
building, purchasing, or in the case of biomass, converting
generation resources.

Other commitments established by the Legislature
included a discount for low-income electric customers, required
conservation improvement expenditures and various study and
reporting requirements to a legislative electric energy task
force. NSP-Minnesota has implemented programs to meet the
legislative commitments. NSP-Minnesota’s capital
commitments include the known effects of the Prairie Island
legislation. The impact of the legislation on future power
purchase commitments and other operating expenses is not yet
determinable.

Capital
Commitments

— As
discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources under
Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the estimated cost,
as of Dec. 31, 2001, of the capital expenditure programs of
Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries and other capital requirements
is approximately $2.8 billion in 2002, $2.6 billion in
2003 and $2.7 billion in 2004.

The capital expenditure programs of Xcel Energy
are subject to continuing review and modification. Actual
utility construction expenditures may vary from the estimates
due to changes in electric and natural gas projected load
growth, the desired reserve margin and the availability of
purchased power, as well as alternative plans for meeting Xcel
Energy’s long-term energy needs. In addition, Xcel
Energy’s ongoing evaluation of merger, acquisition and
divestiture opportunities to support corporate strategies,
address restructuring requirements and comply with future
requirements to install emission-control equipment may impact
actual capital requirements.

Xcel Energy’s capital expenditures include
approximately $1.6 billion in 2002 for NRG construction
activity, excluding asset acquisitions. NRG’s future
capital requirements may vary significantly. For 2002, NRG will
require additional capital of approximately $1.8 billion
for expected acquisitions of existing generation facilities,
including the generating assets of FirstEnergy Corp. and the
Conectiv fossil assets. See further discussion in Note 19
to the Financial Statements.

Leases

—
Our subsidiaries lease a variety of equipment and facilities
used in the normal course of business. Some of these leases
qualify as capital leases and are accounted for accordingly. The
capital leases expire between 2002 and 2025. The net book value
of property under capital leases was approximately
$605 million and $55 million at Dec. 31, 2001 and
2000, respectively. Assets acquired under capital leases are
recorded as property at the lower of fair-market value or the
present value of future lease payments and are amortized over
their actual contract term in accordance with practices allowed
by regulators. The related obligation is classified as long-term
debt. Executory costs are excluded from the minimum lease
payments.

The remainder of the leases, primarily leases of
coal-hauling railcars, trucks, cars and power-operated equipment
are accounted for as operating leases. Rental expense under
operating lease obligations was approximately $58 million,
$56 million and $57 million for 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Future commitments under operating and capital
leases are:

Technology
Agreement

— We have a
contract that extends through 2011 with International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) for information technology services. The
contract is cancelable at our option, although there are
financial penalties for early termination. In 2001, we paid IBM
$130 million under the contract. The contract also commits
us to pay a minimum amount each year from 2002 through 2011.

Fuel
Contracts

— Xcel Energy
has contracts providing for the purchase and delivery of a
significant portion of its current coal, nuclear fuel and
natural gas requirements. These contracts expire in various
years between 2002 and 2025. In total, Xcel Energy is committed
to the minimum purchase of approximately $2.8 billion of
coal, $122.3 million of nuclear fuel and $1.3 billion
of natural gas and related transportation, or to make payments
in lieu thereof, under these contracts. In addition, Xcel Energy
is required to pay additional amounts depending on actual
quantities shipped under these agreements. Xcel Energy’s
risk of loss, in the form of increased costs, from market price
changes in fuel is mitigated through the cost-of-energy
adjustment provision of the ratemaking process, which provides
for recovery of most fuel costs.

Purchased Power
Agreements

— The utility
and nonregulated subsidiaries of Xcel Energy have entered into
agreements with utilities and other energy suppliers for
purchased power to meet system load and energy requirements,
replace generation from company-owned units under maintenance
and during outages, and meet operating reserve obligations.
NSP-Minnesota, PSCo, SPS and certain nonregulated subsidiaries
have various pay-for-performance contracts with expiration dates
through the year 2050. In general, these contracts provide for
capacity payments, subject to meeting certain contract
obligations, and energy payments based on actual power taken
under the contracts. Most of the capacity and energy costs are
recovered through base rates and other cost recovery mechanisms.

NSP-Minnesota has a 500-megawatt participation
power purchase commitment with Manitoba Hydro, which expires in
2005. The cost of this agreement is based on 80 percent of
the costs of owning and operating NSP-Minnesota’s
Sherco 3 generating plant, adjusted to 1993 dollars. In
addition, NSP-Minnesota and Manitoba Hydro have seasonal
diversity exchange agreements, and there are no capacity
payments for the diversity exchanges. These commitments
represent about 17 percent of Manitoba Hydro’s system
capacity and account for approximately 10 percent of
NSP-Minnesota’s 2001 electric system capability. The risk
of loss from nonperformance by Manitoba Hydro is not considered
significant, and the risk of loss from market price changes is
mitigated through cost-of-energy rate adjustments.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

At Dec. 31, 2001, the estimated future
payments for capacity that the utility and nonregulated
subsidiaries of Xcel Energy are obligated to purchase, subject
to availability, are as follows:

Environmental Contingencies

We are subject to regulations covering air and
water quality, land use, the storage of natural gas and the
storage and disposal of hazardous or toxic wastes. We
continuously assess our compliance. Regulations, interpretations
and enforcement policies can change, which may impact the cost
of building and operating our facilities. This includes NRG,
which is subject to regional, federal and international
environmental regulation.

Site
Remediation

— We must
pay all or a portion of the cost to remediate sites where past
activities of our subsidiaries and some other parties have
caused environmental contamination. At Dec. 31, 2001, there
were three categories of sites:

•

third party sites, such as landfills, to which we
	are alleged to be a potentially responsible party (PRP) that
	sent hazardous materials and wastes;

•

the site of a former federal uranium enrichment
	facility; and

•

sites of former manufactured gas plants (MGPs)
	operated by our subsidiaries or predecessors.

We record a liability when we have enough
information to develop an estimate of the cost of environmental
remediation and revise the estimate as information is received.
The estimated remediation cost may vary materially.

To estimate the cost to remediate these sites, we
may have to make assumptions when facts are not fully known. For
instance, we might make assumptions about the nature and extent
of site contamination, the extent of required cleanup efforts,
costs of alternative cleanup methods and pollution-control
technologies, the period over which remediation will be
performed and paid for, changes in environmental remediation and
pollution-control requirements, the potential effect of
technological improvements, the number and financial strength of
other PRPs and the identification of new environmental cleanup
sites.

We revise our estimates as facts become known,
but at Dec. 31, 2001, our liability for the cost of
remediating sites for which an estimate was possible was
$51 million, including $13 million in current
liabilities. Some of the cost of remediation may be recovered
from:

•

insurance coverage;

•

other parties that have contributed to the
	contamination; and

•

customers.

Neither the total remediation cost nor the final
method of cost allocation among all PRPs of the unremediated
sites has been determined. We have recorded estimates of our
share of future costs for these sites. We are not aware of any
other parties’ inability to pay, nor do we know if
responsibility for any of the sites is in dispute.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Approximately $19 million of the long-term
liability and $4 million of the current liability relate to
a DOE assessment to NSP-Minnesota and PSCo for decommissioning a
federal uranium enrichment facility. These environmental
liabilities do not include accruals recorded and collected from
customers in rates for future nuclear fuel disposal costs or
decommissioning costs related to NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear
generating plants. See Note 16 to the Financial Statements
for further discussion of nuclear obligations.

Ashland MGP
Site

— NSP-Wisconsin was
named as one of three PRPs for creosote and coal tar
contamination at a site in Ashland, Wis. The Ashland site
includes property owned by NSP-Wisconsin and two other
properties: an adjacent city lakeshore park area and a small
area of Lake Superior’s Chequemegon Bay adjoining the park.

The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources
(WDNR) and NSP-Wisconsin have each developed several estimates
of the ultimate cost to remediate the Ashland site. The
estimates vary significantly, between $4 million and
$93 million, because different methods of remediation and
different results are assumed in each. The Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) and WDNR have not yet selected the
method of remediation to use at the site. Until the EPA and the
WDNR select a remediation strategy for all operable units at the
site and determine the level of responsibility of each PRP, we
are not able to accurately determine our share of the ultimate
cost of remediating the Ashland site.

In the interim, NSP-Wisconsin has recorded a
liability for an estimate of its share of the cost of
remediating the portion of the Ashland site that it owns, using
information available to date and reasonably effective remedial
methods. NSP-Wisconsin has deferred, as a regulatory asset, the
remediation costs accrued for the Ashland site because we expect
that the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin (PSCW) will
continue to allow NSP-Wisconsin to recover payments for
environmental remediation from its customers. The PSCW has
consistently authorized recovery in NSP-Wisconsin rates of all
remediation costs incurred at the Ashland site, and has
authorized recovery of similar remediation costs for other
Wisconsin utilities.

We proposed, and the EPA and WDNR have approved,
an interim action (a groundwater treatment system) for one
operable unit at the site for which NSP-Wisconsin has accepted
responsibility. The groundwater treatment system began operating
in the fall of 2000. In 2002, NSP-Wisconsin will install monitor
wells in the deep aquifer to better characterize the extent and
degree of contaminants in that aquifer while the free-product
recovery system is operational.

On Dec. 1, 2000, in response to a citizen
petition, the EPA proposed the Ashland site for inclusion on the
National Priorities List (NPL) of hazardous sites requiring
cleanup. NSP-Wisconsin submitted comments in the Administrative
Record concerning the proposed listing on Jan. 30, 2001. It
is anticipated that the site will be listed on the NPL sometime
in 2002.

NSP-Wisconsin continues to work with the WDNR to
access state and federal funds to apply to the ultimate
remediation cost of the entire site.

Other MGP
Sites

— NSP-Minnesota
has investigated and remediated MGP sites in Minnesota and North
Dakota. The MPUC allowed NSP-Minnesota to defer, rather than
immediately expense, certain remediation costs of four active
remediation sites in 1994. This deferral accounting treatment
may be used to accumulate costs that regulators might allow us
to recover from our customers. The costs are deferred as a
regulatory asset until recovery is approved, and then the
regulatory asset is expensed over the same period as the
regulators have allowed us to collect the related revenue from
our customers. In September 1998, the MPUC allowed the recovery
of a portion of these MGP site remediation costs in natural gas
rates. Accordingly, NSP-Minnesota has been amortizing the
related deferred remediation costs to expense. In 2001, the
North Dakota Public Service Commission allowed the recovery of
part of the cost of remediating another former MGP site in Grand
Forks, N.D. The recovered cost of remediating that site,
$2.9 million, was accumulated in a regulatory asset that is
now being expensed evenly over eight years. NSP-Minnesota may
request recovery of costs to remediate other sites following the
completion of preliminary investigations.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Asbestos
Removal

— Some of our
facilities contain asbestos. Most asbestos will remain
undisturbed until the facilities that contain it are demolished
or renovated. Since we intend to operate most of these
facilities indefinitely, we cannot estimate the amount or timing
of payments for its final removal. It may be necessary to remove
some asbestos to perform maintenance or make improvements to
other equipment. The cost of removing asbestos as part of other
work is immaterial and is recorded as incurred as operating
expenses for maintenance projects, capital expenditures for
construction projects or removal costs for demolition projects.

Leyden Gas Storage
Facility

— In the fall
of 2001, PSCo took its Leyden natural gas storage facility out
of commercial storage operation and began final withdrawal of
gas as part of the process to permanently close the facility.
PSCo is closing the Leyden facility because it is no longer
compatible with surrounding land use, which has experienced
considerable residential and commercial development in recent
years. Through Dec. 31, 2001, $4 million of costs have
been incurred. PSCo has deferred expensing these closing costs
because it believes that it will be able to recover them from
its ratepayers. We will request recovery of the closing costs as
part of the rate case to be filed in 2002. Any costs that are
not recoverable from customers will be expensed.

Plant
Emissions

— On
Dec. 10, 2001, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
issued a notice of violation to NSP-Minnesota alleging
air-quality violations related to the replacement of a coal
conveyor and violations of an opacity limitation at the A.S.
King generating plant. NSP-Minnesota has responded to the notice
of violation and is working to resolve its allegations.

NRG estimates capital expenditures over the next
five years related to resolving environmental concerns at the
Indian River Generating Station, which are centered around
possible closure of the existing landfill and construction of a
new cell to replace it, possible addition of a cooling tower,
and the addition of controls to reduce nitrogen oxide (NOx)
emissions. Currently, cost estimates for addressing the first
two items vary widely pending the results of negotiations with
the Delaware Natural Resources and Environment Commission
(DNREC). If ash sales are poor, it is estimated that NRG could
spend up to $11 million over the five-year timeframe to
close/ construct sections of the landfill; if sales are
robust, expenditures related to closure/ construction are
expected to be minimal. In the unlikely event NRG is unable to
reach agreement with DNREC on extension of a variance, NRG
estimates a $40-million cooling tower could be required; if
negotiations are successful, a cooling tower can be avoided.

NRG also estimates $39 million of capital
expenditures at its Encina Generating Station to install
emission-control equipment required by California regulation
passed in late 2001. Installation is expected to be completed in
the spring of 2003.

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts is seeking
additional emissions reductions beyond current requirements. The
Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (MDEP) has
issued proposed regulations that would require significant
emissions reductions from certain coal-fired power plants in the
state, including NRG’s Somerset facility. The MDEP has
proposed that such facilities comply with stringent limits on
emissions of NOx and on sulfur dioxide (SO2) commencing in
December 2003, with further reductions required by December
2005, and on carbon dioxide (CO2) by December 2005. In addition
to output-based limits (a standard that limits emissions to a
certain rate per net megawatt-hour), the proposed regulations
also would limit, by December 2003, the total emissions of NOx
and SO2 at the Somerset facility to no more than 75 percent
of the average annual emissions of the Somerset facility for the
years 1997 through 1999. Finally, the proposed regulations
require the MDEP to evaluate, by December 2002, the
technological and economic feasibility of controlling or
eliminating mercury emissions by the year 2010, and to propose
mercury emission standards within 18 months of completion
of the feasibility evaluation. Compliance with these proposed
regulations, if such regulations become effective, could have a
material impact on the operation of NRG’s Somerset
facility. The annual average CO2 emission rate identified in the
proposed regulations cannot be met by the Somerset facility. NRG
has submitted an emission control plan, with respect to the NOx
and SO2 requirements, and is conducting ongoing discussions with
the MDEP regarding finalization of the plan.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Nuclear
Insurance

— NSP-Minnesota’s
public liability for claims resulting from any nuclear incident
is limited to $9.5 billion under the 1988 Price-Anderson
amendment to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. NSP-Minnesota has
secured $200 million of coverage for its public liability
exposure with a pool of insurance companies. The remaining
$9.3 billion of exposure is funded by the Secondary
Financial Protection Program, available from assessments by the
federal government in case of a nuclear accident. NSP-Minnesota
is subject to assessments of up to $88 million for each of
its three licensed reactors to be applied for public liability
arising from a nuclear incident at any licensed nuclear facility
in the United States. The maximum funding requirement is
$10 million per reactor during any one year.

NSP-Minnesota purchases insurance for property
damage and site decontamination cleanup costs from Nuclear
Electric Insurance Ltd. (NEIL). The coverage limits are
$1.5 billion for each of NSP-Minnesota’s two nuclear
plant sites. NEIL also provides business interruption insurance
coverage, including the cost of replacement power obtained
during certain prolonged accidental outages of nuclear
generating units. Premiums are expensed over the policy term.
All companies insured with NEIL are subject to retroactive
premium adjustments if losses exceed accumulated reserve funds.
Capital has been accumulated in the reserve funds of NEIL to the
extent that NSP-Minnesota would have no exposure for retroactive
premium assessments in case of a single incident under the
business interruption and the property damage insurance
coverage. However, in each calendar year, NSP-Minnesota could be
subject to maximum assessments of approximately $3 million
for business interruption insurance and $10 million for
property damage insurance if losses exceed accumulated reserve
funds.

Legal Contingencies

In the normal course of business, Xcel Energy is
a party to routine claims and litigation arising from prior and
current operations. Xcel Energy is actively defending these
matters and has recorded an estimate of the probable cost of
settlement or other disposition.

St. Cloud Gas
Explosion

— On
Dec. 11, 1998, a natural gas explosion in St. Cloud, Minn.,
killed four people, including two NSP-Minnesota employees,
injured approximately 14 people and damaged several buildings.
The accident occurred as a crew from Cable Constructors Inc.
(CCI) was installing fiber optic cable for Seren. Seren, CCI and
Sirti, an architecture/ engineering firm retained by Seren, are
named as defendants in 24 lawsuits relating to the explosion.
NSP-Minnesota, Seren’s parent company at the time, is a
defendant in 21 of the lawsuits. In addition to compensatory
damages, plaintiffs are seeking punitive damages against CCI and
Seren. NSP-Minnesota and Seren deny any liability for this
accident. On July 11, 2000, the National Transportation
Safety Board issued a report, which determined that CCI’s
inadequate installation procedures and delay in reporting the
natural gas hit were the proximate causes of the accident.
NSP-Minnesota has a self-insured retention deductible of
$2 million with general liability coverage limits of
$185 million. Seren’s primary insurance coverage is
$1 million and its secondary insurance coverage is
$185 million. The ultimate cost to Xcel Energy,
NSP-Minnesota and Seren, if any, is presently unknown.

California
Litigation

— NRG
and other power generators and power traders have been named as
defendants in certain private plaintiff class actions filed in
the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of
San Diego in San Diego, Calif. in November 2000. NRG
has also been named in another suit filed in January 2001 in
San Diego County and brought by three California water
districts, as consumers of electricity, and in two suits filed
in San Francisco County, one brought by the
San Francisco City Attorney on behalf of the people of the
State of California and one brought by Pier 23 Restaurant
as a class action. Certain NRG affiliates in NRG’s West
Coast power partnership with Dynegy (Cabrillo I and II,
Long Beach Generation and El Segundo Power) have been named as
defendants in a state court action in Los Angeles County.

Although the complaints contain a number of
allegations, the basic claim is that, by underbidding forward
contracts and exporting electricity to surrounding markets, the
defendants, acting in collusion, were able to drive up wholesale
prices on the Real Time and Replacement Reserve markets, through
the Western



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Coordinating Council and otherwise. The
complaints allege that the conduct violated California antitrust
and unfair competition laws. NRG does not believe that it has
engaged in any illegal activities, and intends to vigorously
defend these lawsuits. These six civil actions brought against
NRG and other power generators and power traders in California
have been consolidated and assigned to the presiding judge of
the San Diego County Superior Court, and a pretrial
conference has been scheduled for March 2002. While it is too
soon to speculate on the outcome of these cases it could have a
material adverse effect on NRG’s results of operations and
financial condition if they were ultimately resolved adversely
to the defendants.

Other
Litigation

— In
January 2002 the New York Attorney General and the New York
Department of Environmental Control filed suit in the western
district of New York against NRG and Niagara Mohawk Power
Corporation, the prior owner of the Huntley and Dunkirk
facilities in New York. The lawsuit relates to physical changes
made at those facilities prior to NRG’s assumption of
ownership. The complaint alleges that these changes represent
major modifications undertaken without the required permits
having been obtained. Although NRG has a right to
indemnification by the previous owner for fines, penalties,
assessments and related losses resulting from the previous
owner’s failure to comply with environmental laws and
regulations, NRG could be enjoined from operating the facilities
if the facilities are found not to comply with applicable permit
requirements.

In July 2001, Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
filed a declaratory judgment action in the Supreme Court for the
State of New York, County of Onondaga, against NRG and its
wholly owned subsidiaries Huntley Power LLC and Dunkirk Power
LLC. Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation requests a declaration by
the Court that, pursuant to the terms of the Asset Sales
Agreement (the ASA) under which NRG purchased the Huntley and
Dunkirk generating facilities from Niagara Mohawk, defendants
have assumed liability for any costs for the installation of
emissions controls or other modifications to or related to the
Huntley or Dunkirk plants imposed as a result of violations or
alleged violations of environmental law. Niagara Mohawk Power
Corporation also requests a declaration by the Court that,
pursuant to the ASA, defendants have assumed all liabilities,
including liabilities for natural resource damages, arising from
emissions or releases of pollutants from the Huntley and Dunkirk
plants, without regard to whether such emissions or releases
occurred before, on or after the closing date for the purchase
of the Huntley and Dunkirk plants. NRG has counterclaimed
against Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, and the parties have
exchanged discovery requests.

Other Contingencies

California Power
Market

— NRG’s
California generation assets include a 57.67-percent interest in
Crockett Cogeneration (Crockett), a 39.5-percent interest in the
Mt. Poso facility and a 50-percent interest in the West Coast
Power partnership with Dynegy.

In March 2001, the California Power Exchange (PX)
filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy
Code, and in April 2001, Pacific Gas & Electric Co.
(PG&E) also filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11.
PG&E’s filing delayed collection of receivables owed to
the Crockett facility. In September 2001, PG&E filed a
proposed plan of reorganization. Under the terms of the proposed
plan, which is subject to challenge by interested parties,
unsecured creditors such as NRG’s California affiliates
would receive 60 percent of the amounts owed upon approval
of the plan. The remaining 40 percent would be paid in
negotiable debt with terms from 10 to 30 years. The
California PX’s ability to repay its debt is dependent on
the extent to which it receives payments from PG&E and
Southern California Edison Co. On Dec. 21, 2001, the
California bankruptcy court affirmed the Mt. Poso and Crockett
power purchase agreements with PG&E and, in respect of the
Crockett power purchase agreement, approved a twelve-month
repayment schedule of all past due amounts totaling,
$49.6 million, plus interest. The first payment of
$6.2 million, including accrued interest, was received on
Dec. 31, 2001.

NRG’s share of the net amounts owed to West
Coast Power by the California Independent System Operator (ISO)
and PX totaled approximately $85.1 million as of
Dec. 31, 2001, compared with $101.8 mil-



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

lion at Dec. 31, 2000. These amounts reflect
NRG’s share of total amounts owed to West Coast Power less
amounts that are currently treated as disputed revenues and are
not recorded as accounts receivable in the financial statements
of West Coast Power, and reserves taken against accounts
receivable that have been recorded in the financial statements.
The decrease is primarily attributed to cash collections from
the California ISO during the fourth quarter of 2001.

The FERC has set for investigation the justness
and reasonableness of the rates of wholesale sellers into the
California ISO and PX markets and is making such rates subject
to refund effective November 2001. The effect of the FERC’s
action is to make certain transactions of PSCo and NRG in
California subject to refund. Xcel Energy believes that
PSCo’s refund exposure is immaterial. NRG has estimated
potential refunds in the calculation of the reserves taken
against its related accounts receivable.

Enron

— Xcel
Energy, through its subsidiaries (excluding NRG as discussed
later), has entered into agreements with Enron and its
subsidiaries. However, pursuant to netting/set-off rights
provisions of the industry standard agreements that Xcel Energy
and Enron have utilized, Xcel Energy generally has a net
liability to Enron. Therefore, we will owe Enron termination
payments under these agreements for such services. The most
significant of these agreements is between Enron and e prime. e
prime will owe Enron a termination payment of approximately
$12 million, representing the net of a $69-million
receivable and an $81-million payable. As a result of the
netting/set-off provisions, no provision for loss has been
recorded in connection with these transactions agreements. Xcel
Energy does not expect a material impact to the results of its
operations as a direct result of the bankruptcy filing of Enron.

During 2001, NRG’s power marketing operation
recorded a net after-tax expense of $6.7 million related to
Enron’s bankruptcy. This amount includes a
$14.2 million, after-tax charge to establish bad debt
reserves, which was partially offset by a $7.5-million,
after-tax gain on a credit swap agreement entered into as part
of NRG’s credit risk management program. NRG has fully
provided for its exposure to Enron; however, as with any
receivable, NRG will pursue collection of all amounts
outstanding through the ordinary course of business.

In addition, an Enron subsidiary, NEPCO, is
serving as the construction contractor for two of NRG’s
greenfield development projects, the Kendall and Nelson projects
currently under construction in Illinois. Enron guaranteed
NEPCO’s obligations under the construction contracts. To
date, the actual construction and engineering work on both
projects has continued without disruption, and NRG expects the
projects to achieve commercial operations on schedule. NRG
believes overall construction costs will increase by no more
than $50 million, which represents less than 5 percent
of the expected construction costs.

Tax
Matters

— The IRS
had issued a Notice of Proposed Adjustment proposing to disallow
interest expense deductions taken in tax years 1993 through 1997
related to corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) policy loans of
PSR Investments, Inc. (PSRI), a wholly owned subsidiary of PSCo.
A request for technical advice from the IRS National Office with
respect to the proposed adjustment had been pending. Late in
2001, Xcel Energy received a technical advice memorandum from
the IRS National Office, which communicated a position adverse
to PSRI. Consequently, we expect the IRS examination division to
begin the process of disallowing the interest expense deductions
for the tax years 1993 through 1997.

After consultation with tax counsel, it is Xcel
Energy’s position that the IRS determination is not
supported by the tax law. Based upon this assessment, management
continues to believe that the tax deduction of interest expense
on the COLI policy loans is in full compliance with the tax law.
Therefore, Xcel Energy intends to challenge the IRS
determination, which could require several years to reach final
resolution. Although the ultimate resolution of this matter is
uncertain, management continues to believe the resolution of
this matter will not have a material adverse impact on Xcel
Energy’s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows. For this reason, PSRI has not recorded any provision for
income tax or interest expense related to this matter and has
continued to take deductions for interest expense related to
policy loans on its income tax returns for subsequent years.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The total disallowance of interest expense
deductions for the period of 1993 through 1997, as proposed by
the IRS, is approximately $175 million. Additional interest
expense deductions for the period 1998 through 2001 are
estimated to total approximately $240 million. Should the
IRS ultimately prevail on this issue, tax and interest payable
through Dec. 31, 2001, would reduce earnings by an
estimated $197 million (after tax), or 57 cents per Xcel
Energy share.

Seren

— At
Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy’s investment in Seren was
approximately $232 million. Seren had capitalized
$190 million for plant in service and had incurred another
$60 million for construction work in progress for these
systems. The construction of its broadband communications
network in Minnesota and California has resulted in consistent
losses. Management currently intends to hold and operate Seren,
and believes that no asset impairment exists. Xcel Energy is
evaluating the strategic fit in its business portfolio.

Loy
Yang

— NRG owns a
25.37-percent interest in Loy Yang Power, which owns and
operates the 2,000-megawatt Loy Yang A brown coal-fired thermal
power station and the adjacent Loy Yang coal mine located in
Victoria, Australia. Energy prices in the Victoria region of the
National Electricity Market of Australia into which the Loy Yang
facility sells its power have been significantly lower than NRG
expected when it acquired its interest in the facility. Prices
improved during 2001 resulting in a 14-percent revenue increase.
Despite this improvement, a significant unplanned outage,
beginning in late December 2001 and expected to last until April
2002, will result in a reduction in 2002 revenues and cash
flows. Such reduction may cause the Loy Yang project company to
fail its required coverage ratios under its loan agreements
during the next 12 months, which would constitute an event
of default. In the case of default, the project company’s
lenders would be allowed to accelerate the project
company’s indebtedness. The ultimate financial impact of
the outage is subject to continuing investigation and is also
subject to several events, including the receipt and timing of
insurance proceeds, the cost and timing of repairs to the
damaged unit and electricity market conditions. Project
management is actively pursuing each of these options to
mitigate the impact of the outage. However, in the event all
factors are unfavorable, NRG may be required to either infuse
more cash or write off all or a portion of its $250-million
investment in this project as a result of such acceleration. In
its current circumstances, Loy Yang Power is prohibited by its
loan agreements from making equity distributions to the project
owners.

Xcel Energy
International

— At
Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy’s investment in Argentina
through Xcel Energy International was $102 million. Given
the political and economic climate in Argentina, Xcel Energy
continues to closely monitor the investment for asset
impairment. Due to the declining value of the Argentine peso, a
currency translation adjustment was recorded in the amount of
$38 million as an adjustment to Other Comprehensive Income.
Currently, management intends to hold and operate the investment
and believes that no asset impairment exists.

16.

Nuclear Obligations

Fuel
Disposal

— NSP-Minnesota
is responsible for temporarily storing used or spent nuclear
fuel from its nuclear plants. The DOE is responsible for
permanently storing spent fuel from NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear
plants as well as from other U.S. nuclear plants.
NSP-Minnesota has funded its portion of the DOE’s permanent
disposal program since 1981. The fuel disposal fees are based on
a charge of 0.1 cent per kilowatt-hour sold to customers from
nuclear generation. Fuel expense includes DOE fuel disposal
assessments of approximately $11 million in 2001,
$12 million in 2000 and $12 million in 1999. In total,
NSP-Minnesota had paid approximately $296 million to the
DOE through Dec. 31, 2001. However, we cannot determine
whether the amount and method of the DOE’s assessments to
all utilities will be sufficient to fully fund the DOE’s
permanent storage or disposal facility.

The Nuclear Waste Policy Act required the DOE to
begin accepting spent nuclear fuel no later than Jan. 31,
1998. In 1996, the DOE notified commercial spent fuel owners of
an anticipated delay in accepting spent nuclear fuel by the
required date and conceded that a permanent storage or disposal
facility will not be



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

available until at least 2010. NSP-Minnesota and
other utilities have commenced lawsuits against the DOE to
recover damages caused by the DOE’s failure to meet its
statutory and contractual obligations.

NSP-Minnesota has its own temporary on-site
storage facilities for spent fuel at its Monticello and Prairie
Island nuclear plants. With the dry cask storage facilities
approved in 1994, management believes it has adequate storage
capacity to continue operation of its Prairie Island nuclear
plant until at least 2007. The Monticello nuclear plant has
storage capacity to continue operations until 2010. Storage
availability to permit operation beyond these dates is not
assured at this time. We are investigating all of the
alternatives for spent fuel storage until a DOE facility is
available, including pursuing the establishment of a private
facility for interim storage of spent nuclear fuel as part of a
consortium of electric utilities. If on-site temporary storage
at Prairie Island reaches approved capacity, we could seek
interim storage at this or another contracted private facility,
if available.

Nuclear fuel expense includes payments to the DOE
for the decommissioning and decontamination of the DOE’s
uranium enrichment facilities. In 1993, NSP-Minnesota recorded
the DOE’s initial assessment of $46 million, which is
payable in annual installments from 1993 to 2008. NSP-Minnesota
is amortizing each installment to expense on a monthly basis.
The most recent installment paid in 2001 was $4 million;
future installments are subject to inflation adjustments under
DOE rules. NSP-Minnesota is obtaining rate recovery of these DOE
assessments through the cost-of-energy adjustment clause as the
assessments are amortized. Accordingly, we deferred the
unamortized assessment of $25 million at Dec. 31,
2001, as a regulatory asset.

Plant
Decommissioning

— Decommissioning
of NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear facilities is planned for the
years 2010-2022, using the prompt dismantlement method. We are
currently following industry practice by ratably accruing the
costs for decommissioning over the approved cost recovery period
and including the accruals in Accumulated Depreciation.
Consequently, the total decommissioning cost obligation and
corresponding assets currently are not recorded in Xcel
Energy’s financial statements.

In June 2001, the FASB approved the issuance of
SFAS No. 143 — “Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations.” This statement will require us to
record our future nuclear plant decommissioning obligations as a
liability at fair value with a corresponding increase to the
carrying value of the related long-lived asset. The liability
will be increased to its present value each period, and the
capitalized cost will be depreciated over the useful life of the
related long-lived asset. If at the end of the asset’s
useful life, the recorded liability differs from the actual
obligations paid, a gain or loss will be recognized at that time.

SFAS No. 143 will also affect our accrued
plant removal costs for other generation, transmission and
distribution facilities for our utility subsidiaries. We expect
that these costs, which have yet to be estimated, will be
reclassified from Accumulated Depreciation to Regulatory
Liabilities based on the recoverability of these costs in rates.
We plan to adopt SFAS No. 143, as required, on Jan. 1,
2003.

Consistent with cost recovery in utility customer
rates, we record annual decommissioning accruals based on
periodic site-specific cost studies and a presumed level of
dedicated funding. Cost studies quantify decommissioning costs
in current dollars. Funding presumes that current costs will
escalate in the future at a rate of 4.35 percent per year.
The total estimated decommissioning costs that will ultimately
be paid, net of income earned by external trust funds, is
currently being accrued using an annuity approach over the
approved plant recovery period. This annuity approach uses an
assumed rate of return on funding, which is currently
5.5 percent, net of tax, for external funding and
approximately 8 percent, net of tax, for internal funding.
Unrealized gains on nuclear decommissioning investments are
deferred as Regulatory Liabilities based on the assumed
offsetting against decommissioning costs in current ratemaking
treatment.

The MPUC last approved NSP-Minnesota’s
nuclear decommissioning study and related nuclear plant
depreciation capital recovery request in April 2000, using 1999
cost data. Although we expect to operate Prairie Island through
the end of each unit’s licensed life, the approved capital
recovery would allow for the plant to be fully depreciated,
including the accrual and recovery of decommissioning costs, in
2007. This is about seven years earlier than each unit’s
licensed life. The approved recovery period for Prairie Island
has



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

been reduced because of the uncertainty regarding
spent-fuel storage. We believe future decommissioning cost
accruals will continue to be recovered in customer rates.

The total obligation for decommissioning
currently is expected to be funded 100 percent by external
funds, as approved by the MPUC. Contributions to the external
fund started in 1990 and are expected to continue until plant
decommissioning begins. The assets held in trusts as of
Dec. 31, 2001, primarily consisted of investments in fixed
income securities, such as tax-exempt municipal bonds and
U.S. government securities that mature in one to
20 years, and common stock of public companies. We plan to
reinvest matured securities until decommissioning begins.

At Dec. 31, 2001, NSP-Minnesota had recorded
and recovered in rates cumulative decommissioning accruals of
$623 million. The following table summarizes the funded
status of NSP-Minnesota’s decommissioning obligation at
Dec. 31, 2001:

Decommissioning expenses recognized include the
following components:

Decommissioning and interest accruals are
included with Accumulated Depreciation on the balance sheet.
Interest costs and trust earnings associated with externally
funded obligations are reported in Other Nonoperating Income on
the income statement.

Negative accruals for internally funded portions
in 2000 and 2001 reflect the impacts of the 2000 decommissioning
study, which has approved an assumption of 100-percent external
funding of future costs. Previous studies assumed a portion was
funded internally; beginning in 2000, accruals are reversing the
previously accrued internal portion and increasing the external
portion prospectively.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

17.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

Our regulated businesses prepare their financial
statements in accordance with the provisions of SFAS
No. 71, as discussed in Note 1 to the Financial
Statements. Under SFAS No. 71, regulatory assets and
liabilities can be created for amounts that regulators may allow
us to collect, or may require us to pay back to customers in
future electric and natural gas rates. Any portion of our
business that is not regulated cannot use SFAS No. 71
accounting. The components of unamortized regulatory assets and
liabilities shown on the balance sheet at Dec. 31 were:



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

18.

Segment and Related Information

Xcel Energy has the following reportable
segments: Electric Utility, Gas Utility and two of its
nonregulated energy businesses, NRG and e prime. During February
2001, Xcel Energy reached an agreement to sell the majority of
its investment in Yorkshire Power. As a result of this sales
agreement, Xcel International (Yorkshire Power was Xcel
International’s most significant holding) is no longer a
reportable segment. Prior periods have been restated for
comparability.

Revenues from operating segments not included
previously are below the necessary quantitative thresholds and
are therefore included in the All Other category. Those
primarily include a company involved in nonregulated power and
natural gas marketing activities throughout the United States; a
company that invests in and develops cogeneration and
energy-related projects; a company that is engaged in
engineering, design construction management and other
miscellaneous services; a company engaged in energy consulting,
energy efficiency management, conservation programs and mass
market services; an affordable housing investment company; a
broadband telecommunications company; and several other small
companies and businesses.

To report net income for electric and natural gas
utility segments, Xcel Energy must assign or allocate all costs
and certain other income. In general, costs are:

•

directly assigned wherever applicable;

•

allocated based on cost causation allocators
	wherever applicable; and

•

allocated based on a general allocator for all
	other costs not assigned by the above two methods.

The accounting policies of the segments are the
same as those described in Note 1 to the Financial
Statements. Xcel Energy evaluates performance by each legal
entity based on profit or loss generated from the product or
service provided.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Business Segments

(a)

All operating revenues are from external
	customers located in the United States, except $764 million
	and $290 million of NRG operating revenues in 2001 and
	2000, respectively, which came from external customers outside
	of the United States. However, Xcel Energy International and NRG
	also have significant equity investments for nonregulated
	projects outside the United States. NRG’s equity in
	earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, primarily independent
	power projects, includes $54.1 million in



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

2001, $19.2 million in 2000 and
	$38.6 million in 1999 from nonregulated projects located
	outside of the United States. NRG’s equity investments in
	projects outside of the United States were $519 million in
	2001, $566 million in 2000 and $606 million in 1999.
	All Other equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates
	includes $1 million in 2001, $35.3 million in 2000 and
	$44.9 million in 1999 from outside of the United States,
	primarily related to Yorkshire Power. All Other equity
	investments and projects outside of the United States were
	$36.9 million in 2001, $383 million in 2000 and
	$367 million in 1999. In addition, NRG’s wholly owned
	foreign assets ($2.8 billion in 2001 and $796 million
	in 2000) contributed earnings of $49.2 million in 2001,
	$30.1 million in 2000 and $0 in 1999.

19.

Subsequent Event — NRG Tender Offer
	(Unaudited)

Numerous factors have recently led to significant
erosion in the market valuations within the independent power
production sector, and resulted in a fundamental shift in market
perception that has increased the cost of capital for these
companies in 2002. As discussed in Management’s Discussion
and Analysis, since December 2001, NRG has experienced
tightening credit standards and has been notified by certain
credit rating agencies that NRG’s corporate securities have
been placed under review for possible downgrade. In response to
these developments, Xcel Energy’s board of directors and
management have been reviewing their options with respect to
NRG’s funding and structure.

On Feb. 14, 2002, Xcel Energy’s board
of directors approved plans to commence an exchange offer by
which Xcel Energy would acquire all of the outstanding publicly
held shares of NRG, representing an approximately 26-percent
minority ownership. In the offer, NRG shareholders would receive
0.4846 shares of Xcel Energy common stock in a tax-free exchange
for each outstanding share of NRG common stock. Based on the
Feb. 14, 2002 closing prices of Xcel Energy and NRG common
stock, the exchange ratio represents a 15-percent premium. In
addition, following completion of the transaction, shareholders
would be entitled to Xcel Energy’s current annual dividend
of $1.50 per share.

NRG’s board of directors must review the
proposed transaction, consider whether independent financial and
legal advisors are necessary and communicate with NRG’s
minority shareholders. In order to meet the conditions of the
offer, enough shares will need to be tendered so that Xcel
Energy’s ownership level of NRG reaches 90 percent.
Based on the number of shares of NRG common stock outstanding on
Feb. 14, 2002, this would require the tender of at least
60 percent of the shares of NRG common stock. As this
report went to press, it was not known what NRG’s board of
directors would recommend, or how many minority shares of NRG
would be tendered. Xcel Energy anticipates that the exchange
offer will proceed and be completed promptly.

In addition to the exchange offer, on
Feb. 15, 2002, Xcel Energy also announced other plans for
NRG in 2002:



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

On Feb. 15, 2002, eight separate civil
actions were filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of
Delaware by owners of NRG common stock against Xcel Energy, NRG
and NRG’s directors. The complaints contain a number of
allegations, but the basic claim is that Xcel Energy proposes to
acquire the remaining ownership of NRG for inadequate
consideration and without full and complete disclosure of all
material information, in breach of defendants’ fiduciary
duties. The complaints request the court to enjoin the proposed
transaction and, in the event the exchange offer is consummated,
to award damages to defendants.

20. Summarized Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)

(a)

2001 results include special charges and unusual
	items in the second and fourth quarters, as discussed in
	Notes 2 and 17 to the Financial Statements. Second quarter
	results were increased by $41 million, or 7 cents per
	share, for conservation incentive adjustments, and decreased by
	$23 million, or 4 cents per



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

share, for a special charge related to
	postemployment benefits. Fourth quarter results were decreased
	by $39 million, or 7 cents per share, for a special
	charge related to employee restaffing costs.

(b)

2000 results include special charges related to
	merger costs and strategic alignment, as discussed in
	Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Third quarter results
	were reduced by approximately $201 million, or 43 cents per
	share. Fourth quarter results were reduced by approximately
	$40 million, or 9 cents per share.

(c)

Certain items in the 2000 and 2001 quarterly
	income statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2001
	annual presentation. These reclassifications, primarily related
	to items formerly presented as nonoperating revenues and
	expenses, had no effect on net income or earnings per share.



Item 9.

Changes
In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

During 2000 and 2001, and through March 27,
2002, there were no disagreements with Xcel Energy’s
independent public accountants on accounting principles or
practices, financial statement disclosures, or auditing scope or
procedures.

On March 27, 2002, the Audit Committee of
Xcel Energy’s Board of Directors recommended, and the Xcel
Energy Board approved, the decision to engage
Deloitte & Touche LLP, subject to completion of
their customary acceptance procedures, as its new principal
independent accountants for 2002. Accordingly, on March 27,
2002, Xcel Energy’s management informed Arthur
Andersen LLP that the firm would no longer be engaged as
its principal independent accountants. The reports of Arthur
Andersen LLP on the financial statements of the Company for
its year ended December 31, 2001 or 2000 did not contain an
adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion and were not qualified
or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting
principles. Further, during 2000 and 2001, and through
March 27, 2002, there have been no reportable events (as
defined in Commission Regulation S-K
Item 304(a)(1)(v)).

Xcel Energy has requested that Arthur
Andersen LLP furnish it with a letter addressed to the
Commission stating whether or not it agrees with the above
statements. Arthur Andersen LLP’s letter dated
March 29, 2002, is filed as Exhibit 16.01 to this
Form 10-K.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information required under this Item with respect
to directors is set forth in the Registrant’s 2002 Proxy
Statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
April 18, 2002, under the caption “Election of
Directors,” which is incorporated by reference. Information
with respect to Executive Officers is included in Item 1 to
this report.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

Information required under this Item is set forth
in the Registrant’s 2002 Proxy Statement for its Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 18, 2002, under
the caption “Executive Compensation,” which is
incorporated by reference.

Item 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

Information concerning the security ownership of
the directors and officers of Xcel Energy is contained under the
caption “Common Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive
Officers” in the Xcel Energy 2002 Proxy Statement for its
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 18, 2002,
which is incorporated by reference.

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

Information concerning relationships and related
transactions of the directors and officers of Xcel Energy is
contained in the Xcel Energy 2002 Proxy Statement for its Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 18, 2002, which is
incorporated by reference.



Item 14 —

Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on
Form 8-K

(a) 1.

Financial
Statements and Schedules

2.

Exhibits

Xcel Energy

NSP-Minnesota





NSP-Wisconsin



PSCo

4.85*

Indenture, dated as of Dec. 1, 1939,
	providing for the issuance of First Mortgage Bonds (Form 10
	for 1946-Exhibit (B-1)).

4.86*

Indentures supplemental to Indenture dated as of
	Dec. 1, 1939:



4.87*

Indenture, dated as of Oct. 1, 1993, providing
	for the issuance of First Collateral Trust Bonds
	(Form 10-Q, Sept. 30, 1993 —
	Exhibit 4(a)).

4.88*

Indentures supplemental to Indenture dated as of
	Oct. 1, 1993:



SPS

4.94*

Indenture, dated as of Aug. 1, 1946, providing
        for the issuance of First Mortgage Bonds (Registration
        No. 2-6910, Exhibit 7-A).

4.95*

Indentures supplemental to Indenture dated as of
        Aug. 1, 1946:

NRG Energy, Inc.



NSP-Minnesota



PSCo

10.10*

Amended and Restated Coal Supply Agreement
	entered into Oct. 1, 1984 but made effective as of Jan. 1, 1976
	between PSCo and Amax Inc. on behalf of its division, Amax Coal
	Company (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-03280) Dec. 31,
	1984 — Exhibit 10(c)(1)).

10.11*

First Amendment to Amended and Restated Coal
	Supply Agreement entered into May 27, 1988 but made
	effective Jan. 1, 1988 between PSCo and Amax Coal Company
	(Form 10-K, (File no. 001-03280) Dec. 31,
	1988-Exhibit 10(c)(2).

SPS

Xcel Energy



NRG





Xcel Energy

*

Indicates incorporation by reference

+

Executive Compensation Arrangements and Benefit
	Plans Covering Executive Officers and Directors

(b)

Reports on
Form 8-K

— The following report on
Form 8-K was filed either during the three months ended
Dec. 31, 2001, or between Dec. 31, 2001, and the date
of this report.

Oct. 11, 2001 (filed Oct. 12,
2001) — Item 5 and 7. Other Events and Exhibits.
Re: Disclosure of Xcel Energy’s earnings expectations for
third quarter 2001.



Oct. 29, 2001 (filed Oct. 29,
2001) — Item 5. Other Events. Re: Disclosure of
information related to an Xcel Energy investor relation
presentation.

Nov. 29, 2001 (filed Nov. 30,
2001) — Item 5 and 7. Other Events and Exhibits.
Re: Disclosure of Xcel Energy’s authorization of contingent
equity investment up to $300 million in NRG.

Dec. 13, 2001 (filed Dec. 13,
2001) — Item 5 and 7. Other Events and Exhibits.
Re: Disclosure of Board of Directors authorization of an
additional noncontingent equity investment of $300 million
in NRG.

Jan. 14, 2002 (filed Jan. 14,
2002) — Item 5. Other Events. Re: Disclosure of
the Internal Revenue Services Notice of Proposed Adjustments
proposing to disallow certain interest expense deductions taken
by Xcel Energy.

Feb. 8, 2002 (filed Feb. 8,
2002) — Item 5 and 7. Other Events and Exhibits.
Re: Disclosure of Xcel Energy position on recent published
reports of merger talks naming specific companies.

Feb. 15, 2002 (filed Feb. 15,
2002) — Item 5 and 7. Other Events and Exhibits.
Re: Disclosure of Board of Directors’ approval for an
exchange offer with NRG to acquire all of the outstanding
publicly held shares.

Feb. 15, 2002 (filed Feb. 19,
2002) — Item 5 and 7. Other Events and Exhibits.
Re: Disclosure Letter to NRG.

Feb. 20, 2002 (filed Feb. 20,
2002) — Item 5 and 7. Other Events and Exhibits.
Re: Disclosure of information related to an Xcel Energy investor
relation presentation.

Feb. 22, 2002 (filed Feb. 22,
2002) — Item 5. Other Events. Re: Disclosure of
response by Xcel Energy to the possible downgrade of the
unsecured credit rating of NRG Energy.

Feb. 25, 2002 (filed Feb. 25,
2002) — Item 5. Other Events. Re: Disclosure of
Xcel Energy’s Dec. 31, 2001 year-end financial
statements, footnotes and related management’s discussion
and analysis.

Feb. 25, 2002 (filed Feb. 27,
2002) — Item 5 and 7. Other Events and Exhibits.
Re: Disclosure of Xcel Energy’s shelf registration on
Form S-3.

March 12, 2002 (filed March 12,
2002) — Item 5. Other Events. Re: Disclosure of
SEC Financing Order and NRG Financing Support.

March 13, 2002 (filed March 13,
2002) — Item 5 and 7. Other Events and Exhibits.
Re: Disclosure of update on description of common stock.

March 26, 2002 (filed March 26,
2002) — Item 5 and 7. Other Events and Exhibits.
Re: Disclosure of adverse first quarter 2002 earnings and
revised first quarter and annual 2002 earnings guidance.



SCHEDULE II

XCEL ENERGY INC.

AND SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND
RESERVES

Years Ended Dec. 31, 2001, 2000 and

(1)

Uncollectible accounts written off or transferred
	to other parties.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this annual report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

XCEL ENERGY INC.

/s/ EDWARD J. MCINTYRE

Edward J. McIntyre

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

March 27, 2002

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the date indicated.

/s/ WAYNE H. BRUNETTI

Wayne H. Brunetti

President, Chief Executive Officer and

Chairman of the Board

(Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ DAVID E. RIPKA

David E. Ripka

Vice President and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/ DAVID A. CHRISTENSEN

David A. Christensen

Director

/s/ A. BARRY HIRSCHFELD

A. Barry Hirschfeld

Director

/s/ ALBERT F. MORENO

Albert F. Moreno

Director

/s/ A. PATRICIA SAMPSON

A. Patricia Sampson

Director

/s/ RODNEY E. SLIFER

Rodney E. Slifer

Director

/s/ EDWARD J. MCINTYRE

Edward J. McIntyre

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

/s/ C. CONEY BURGESS

C. Coney Burgess

Director

/s/ ROGER R. HEMMINGHAUS

Roger R. Hemminghaus

Director

/s/ DOUGLAS W. LEATHERDALE

Douglas W. Leatherdale

Director

/s/ MARGARET R. PRESKA

Margaret R. Preska

Director

/s/ ALLAN L. SCHUMAN

Allan L. Schuman

Director

/s/ W. THOMAS STEPHENS

W. Thomas Stephens

Director

137