
10-K


             SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                  Washington, D.C.  20549
                         FORM 10-K
   
   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
   SECURITIES
     X  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  For the Fiscal Year Ended
        May 31, 1995
   
        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
        OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
   
   Commission File No. 0-11399
                    CINTAS CORPORATION
    (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
   Incorporated under                  IRS Employer ID
   the Laws of Washington              No. 31-1188630
   (State or other juris-
   diction of incorporation         
   or organization)                 
                      6800 Cintas Boulevard
                      P.O. Box 625737
                      Cincinnati, Ohio  45262-5737
                      Phone:  (513)  459-1200
                     (Address of principal executive offices)
   
   Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
   
                            None
   
   Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
   
                  Common Stock, No Par Value
                      (Title of class)
   
   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
   all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
   the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
   months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
   requirements for the past 90 days.
   
                  YES                 NO
   
                   X
   
   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
   pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
   herein, and will not be contained to the best of the
   Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
   statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
   Form 10-K or any amendment to the Form 10-K. [X]
   
   The aggregate market value of Common Stock held by
   nonaffiliates is $1,051,726,615, based on a closing price
   of $38.75 on August 11, 1995.  As of August 11, 1995,
   47,037,905 shares of no par value Common Stock were issued
   and outstanding.
   
              Documents Incorporated by Reference
   
   Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders
   for 1995 furnished to the Commission pursuant to Rule 14a-3(b) and portions
   of the Registrant's Proxy Statement to be
   filed with the Commission for its 1995 annual meeting are
   incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and III as
   specified.
   
   
                            Page 1 of 37 Pages

                        CINTAS CORPORATION
                      INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT
                          ON FORM 10-K
   
   
                                                         Page
   
   Part I
   
          Item 1 - Business                               3
          Item 2 - Properties                             4
          Item 3 - Legal Proceedings                      6
          Item 4 - Submission of Matters to a Vote 
                   of Security Holders                    6
   
   Part II
   
          Item 5 - Market for Registrant's Common 
                   Equity and Related Stockholder Matters 6
      
          Item 6 - Selected Financial Data                6
          Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis 
                   of Financial Condition and Results 
                   of Operations                          6
   
          Item 8 - Financial Statements and 
                   Supplementary Data                     7
          Item 9 - Changes in and Disagreements with
                   Accountants on Accounting and 
                   Financial Disclosure                   7
   
   
   Part III
   
          Item 10 - Directors and Executive Officers 
                    of the Registrant                     7
          Item 11 - Executive Compensation                7
          Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain 
                    Beneficial Owners and Management      7
   
          Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related
                    Transactions                          7
   
   Part IV
   
          Item 14 - Exhibits, Financial Statement 
                    Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K    7
   
   
                                 -2-
   
   
                             PART I
                             ITEM 1.
                            BUSINESS
   The business discussion found on pages 2 through 9 of the
   Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for 1995 is
   incorporated herein by reference.  Information regarding
   revenues from products and services, the number of
   employees and competition are listed or described below:
   
   The table sets forth the revenues derived from each service
   provided by Cintas.
   
   
   The Company began business in 1929 under Ohio law and
   changed its state of incorporation to Washington in 1986. 
   At May 31, 1995, the Company employed 9,724 employees of
   which 73 are represented by labor unions.  The Company
   considers its relationship with its employees to be
   satisfactory.
   
   Cintas provides a highly specialized service to businesses
   of all types - from small service companies to major
   corporations that employ thousands of people.  The Company
   designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity
   uniform programs throughout the United States.
   
   The rental markets served by the Company are highly
   fragmented and competition for this business varies at each
   of the Company's locations.  There are other companies in
   the uniform rental business which have financial resources
   comparable to those of the Company, although much of the
   competition consists of smaller local and regional firms. 
   In certain instances, local competitors may also have
   financial resources comparable to those deployed by the
   Company in a particular market.
   
   The service provided to the rental markets served by the
   Company principally consists of the rental and cleaning of
   uniforms as well as providing on-going uniform upgrades to
   each customer.  The Company also offers ancillary products
   which includes the rental or sale of walk-off mats, fender
   covers, towels, mops and linen products.  
   
   Due to its diverse customer base and average account size,
   the loss of one account would not have a significant
   financial impact on the Company.
   
   In its sale of customized uniforms, Cintas competes on a
   national basis with other uniform suppliers and
   manufacturers, some of which have financial resources
   comparable to the Company's.
   
   The Company operates four manufacturing facilities which
   provide for a substantial amount of standard uniform needs. 
   Additional products are purchased from one of several
   outside suppliers.  Because of the Company's ability to
   manufacture much of its own uniform needs, the loss of one
   vendor would not have a significant effect on the Company. 
   In regard to the availability of fabric for the
   manufacturing process, the Company purchases fabric from
   several suppliers.  The Company is not aware of any
   circumstances which would hinder its ability to obtain
   these materials.
   
   The Company does not anticipate any material capital
   expenditures for environmental controls that would have a
   material effect on its financial condition. The Company is
   not aware of any material non-compliance with environmental
   laws.
   
   The Company believes that the primary competitive factors
   that affect its operations are quality, service, design and
   price, in that order.
   
                                 -3-
   
   
                               ITEM 2.
   
                             PROPERTIES
   
   The Company currently occupies 113 facilities located in
   109 cities.  The corporate offices provide centrally
   located administrative functions including accounting,
   finance, marketing and data processing.  The Company
   operates processing plants that house administrative, sales
   and service personnel and the necessary equipment involved
   in the cleaning of uniforms and bulk items.  Branch
   operations provide administrative, sales and service
   functions.  Cintas operates two distribution facilities and
   has four manufacturing plants, two of which produce uniform
   trousers and two producing uniform shirts.  The Company
   considers the facilities it operates to be adequate for
   their intended use.  The Company owns or leases 2,384
   vehicles.  
   
   The following chart provides additional information
   concerning Cintas' facilities:
   
   
   
                            ITEM 3.
                      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
   
        In December 1992, the Company was served with an
   "Imminent and Substantial Endangerment and Remedial Action
   Order" (the "Order") by the California Department of Toxic
   Substances Control relating to the facility leased by the
   Company in San Leandro, California.  The Order requires
   Cintas and three other allegedly responsible parties to
   respond to alleged soil and groundwater contamination at
   and around the San Leandro facility.  Details surrounding
   the claim are not yet known, and it is not possible at this
   time to estimate the loss or range of loss associated with
   the claim.  Based on information that has been made
   available to the Company, however, it is not believed that
   the matter will have a material adverse effect on the
   Company's financial condition or results of its operations.
   
        The Company is also a party to incidental litigation
   brought in the ordinary course of business, none of which
   individually or in the aggregate, is considered to be
   material to its operations or financial condition.  Cintas
   maintains insurance coverage against certain liabilities
   that it may incur in its operations from time to time.
   
                           ITEM 4.
        SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
   
        None in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1995.
   
                           PART II
                           ITEM 5.
             MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY
                AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
   
        "Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Security
   Holders Information" on page 25 of the Registrant's Annual
   Report to Shareholders for 1995 is incorporated herein by
   reference.  Dividend information is incorporated by
   reference to the Consolidated Statement of Shareholders'
   Equity on page 13.  Dividends on the outstanding Common
   Stock are paid annually and amounted to $.20 and $.17 per
   share in fiscal 1995 and 1994, respectively.
   
                            ITEM 6.
                   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
   
        The "Eleven Year Financial Summary" on page 10 of the
   Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for 1995 is
   incorporated herein by reference.
   
                            ITEM 7.
            MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
   
        "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
   Condition and Results of Operations" commencing on page 22
   of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for 1995
   is incorporated herein by reference.
   
                                 -6-
   
   
                            ITEM 8.
           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
   
        The following Financial Statements of the Registrant
   shown on pages 11 through 21 of its Annual Report to
   Shareholders for 1995 are incorporated herein by reference:
   
       Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 1995 and 1994
       Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
         May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993
       Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the
         years ended May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years 
         ended May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
       Report of Independent Auditors
   
   
                            ITEM 9.
   
         CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
            ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
   
   Not applicable.
   
   
                           PART III
   
        Items 10., 11., 12., and 13. of Part III are
   incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Proxy
   Statement for its 1995 Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be
   filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.
   
                           PART IV
   
                           ITEM 14.
   
   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORT ON FORM
    8-K
   
        (a) (1) Financial Statements.  All financial
   statements required to be filed by Item 8. of this Form and
   included in this report have been listed previously on page
   7.  No additional financial statements are being filed
   since the requirements for paragraph (d) under Item 14 are
   not applicable to the Company.
   
   
   
        (a) (2) Financial Statement Schedule:
   
   For each of the three years in the period ended May 31,
   1995.
   
        Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and
   Reserves.
   
   
   All other schedules are omitted because they are not
   applicable, or not required, or because the required
   information is included in the Consolidated Financial
   Statements or Notes thereto.
   
                                -7-
                           
   
                             -8-
   
   
                          SIGNATURES
   
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
   the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has
   duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
   undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
   
                                     CINTAS CORPORATION
   
   DATE SIGNED:  August 22, 1995  /s/ Robert J. Kohlhepp       
   
                                   By:Robert J. Kohlhepp
                                      President and Chief
                                      Executive Officer
   
       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
   Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following
   persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities
   and on the dates indicated.
   
   
                               -9-

     
     
                       CINTAS CORPORATION
     



                                -10-


                        CINTAS CORPORATION


  Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
                         (In Thousands)



                                -11-


   
   Note:  Reported earnings per share for each year was based
   upon weighted average shares outstanding since neither the
   primary nor fully diluted amounts of per share earnings
   resulted in a reduction of 3% or more.  
   
   
                              -13-
   
   
   
                                   -14-
   
   
   To Our Shareholders and Friends:
   
   We are pleased to report that Cintas has achieved record
   results for the twenty-sixth consecutive year.  All of us
   at Cintas are guided by our principle objective which is
   "to maximize the long-term value of Cintas for our
   shareholders and working partners by exceeding our
   customers' expectations".  As we pursue that objective, we
   constantly uncover new opportunities for continued growth
   and exciting opportunities for our employees who we call
   "partners". 
   
   In addition to the excellent financial progress we achieved
   during the year, we are exploring new market niches that
   compliment our existing product and delivery systems and
   provide current and potential customers with more products
   and services.  At the same time, we continue to invest in
   new technology, both to improve our operational
   productivity as well as to better serve our customers by
   providing them with services and information that will help
   them reduce their costs. 
   
   We are in a great business and the opportunities for
   continued growth are exciting.  We only have 15% of the
   served market which, according to industry statistics, is
   $3.5 billion.  More and more businesses are beginning to
   use uniforms for the first time and, therefore, the
   business is growing at a significant pace.  As a matter of
   fact, for the last several years,  the majority of our new
   customers are businesses that never before had a uniform
   service.  Cintas has been very successful in converting
   these nonusers and, because of our size and geographic
   presence, we expect to continue to benefit from this
   developing  business.  
   
   Our prospects for the future are excellent.  Now that our
   annual revenues exceed $600 million, and we fully expect
   them to exceed a billion dollars in a few years, it is time
   to make some changes to our organization in order to
   prepare for the exciting opportunities we have before us. 
   Our organization is stronger than it has ever been and we
   have the human resources necessary to run a much larger
   company.  
   
   Beginning in August of 1995, Bob Kohlhepp, our President
   and Chief Operating Officer, will take on the additional
   responsibilities of Chief Executive Officer.  Bob has
   served the Company for 28 years in important executive
   positions, including Controller, Vice President of Finance
   and Treasurer,  Executive Vice President and, since 1984,
   President and Chief Operating Officer.  Bob has been my
   closest partner and confidant and has been a key
   contributor to the Company's outstanding performance.  This
   move is part of a long-standing succession plan that has
   been in place at Cintas for many years.  I will continue to
   serve as Chairman of the Board and will remain actively
   involved in the business, and concentrate on the overall
   corporate strategy, organizational development, marketing 
   and acquisitions.  
   
   In order for Bob to concentrate on his new
   responsibilities, Dave Jeanmougin, previously Senior Vice
   President - Finance,  was promoted to a newly created
   position of Senior Vice President, and will be responsible
   for manufacturing,  distribution, management information
   systems and numerous administrative activities. Dave will
   also serve as Corporate Secretary.   Replacing Dave as Vice
   President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer, is Bill
   Gale.  Bill joined Cintas in April of 1995 after previously
   holding  various executive financial positions in industry
   and public accounting.  This new organization structure
   will position the Company for continued growth as we
   approach the twenty-first century and prepare to run a
   company with more than a billion dollars in revenues.
   
   I am also pleased to announce the promotion of Jay Case to
   Vice President of our southwestern region.  Jay joined
   Cintas in 1980 and has served in various management
   positions since that time.  Most recently, Jay held  the
   position of General Manager of our Columbus uniform rental
   operation.  It is comforting to see partners, such as Jay,
   who has 
   
                               -15-
   
   
   spent his entire career with Cintas, grow and mature to
   take over such an important post.  This is just one example
   of the effectiveness of our management trainee program.
   This program is one of our competitive advantages which
   enables us to grow at a rapid rate and fill most management
   and supervisory positions from within.
   
   During this past fiscal year, another of our executives,
   Scott Farmer, was elected to the Board of Directors. He has
   rapidly progressed through the Company in his fifteen 
   years with Cintas, and now serves as President of one of
   our largest divisions and  Vice President in charge of our
   north central operations.
   
   Cintas is positioned to remain the premier company in the
   industry.  We have excellent financial resources and the
   most modern facilities manned by enthusiastic,  ownership-driven people. 
   We will never rest on our past
   accomplishments.  We pursue the future with a spirit of
   positive discontent, a phrase at Cintas  which simply means
   we are never satisfied -- we are constantly looking for 
   better ways to serve our customers.
   
   It is a pleasure to offer this special thank you to all of
   our partners for their substantial contributions, and we
   also thank each shareholder for your continued support and
   confidence in Cintas.
   
   Sincerely yours,
   
   Richard T. Farmer
   Chairman of the Board
                              -16-
   
   
                      FISCAL 1995 IN REVIEW
   
   
   FINANCIAL RESULTS
   
   Cintas achieved sales of $615 million during fiscal 1995,
   an 18% increase from last year.  Pre-tax income of $101
   million increased 18% from $85 million last year, while net
   income of $63 million increased 20% over $52 million in
   fiscal 1994.  Our earnings per share increased 20% to $1.34
   per share from $1.12 last year.
   
   TWENTY-SIX YEARS OF RECORD GROWTH
   
   Fiscal 1995 was our Company's twenty-sixth consecutive year
   of growth in both sales and profits.  During this
   twenty-six year period, sales grew at a compound rate of
   24% and profits grew at a compound rate of 34%.
   
   GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION
   
   In our uniform rental operations, we extended our service
   to several new markets including St. Louis and Minneapolis. 
   With a presence in these two important cities, we can now
   branch out into contiguous markets in Missouri, Southern
   Illinois, Minnesota and Northern Wisconsin.  This
   geographic coverage also allows us to serve our national
   customers on a more efficient and cost-effective basis. 
   The Company also completed construction of uniform rental
   plants in Portland, Oregon; Seattle, Washington; Phoenix,
   Arizona; Buffalo, New York and Charlotte,  North Carolina.
   
   ACQUISITIONS
   
   Cintas made three key acquisitions during the year.  One of
   those acquisitions enhanced our market presence in the
   southeast Texas area and another added additional volume in
   Little Rock, Arkansas and Memphis, Tennessee.  In February,
   we acquired the remaining 80% ownership of Cadet Uniform
   Services, Ltd., based in Toronto, Ontario.  Cintas had
   owned a 20% interest in the company since fiscal 1991. 
   Cadet provides Cintas with an excellent opportunity to
   expand in the Canadian market.  Cadet brings to the Company
   annual revenues of approximately $30 million Canadian and
   over 3,000 customers served from two state-of-the-art
   facilities in Toronto.
   
   MARKET SHARE INCREASE
   
   Each day more than 1.7 million workers go to work wearing a
   Cintas uniform.  Our base of 150,000 business customers
   continues to grow and we now enjoy a national market share
   of 15% of the industrial uniform rental industry.  The
   market continues to expand as many businesses are providing
   uniforms for their people for the first time.  Fiscal 1995
   was the fifth consecutive year in which the majority of our
   new business came from companies that never had a uniform
   program before.  How the public perceives a business, and
   how its employees perceive themselves and their company, is
   vital to success.  Uniforms send a powerful message of
   professionalism and competence to customers and employees. 
   Therefore more and more companies are beginning to use a
   uniform service.  Cintas is well positioned to take
   advantage of this developing business due to our extensive
   geographic presence and our marketing expertise.  This is a
   great opportunity for growth.
   
                               -17-
   
   
   NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
   
   The National Account Division continues to grow at an
   exciting pace.  Many companies are consolidating their
   sources of supply in their quest to reduce costs. 
   Companies prefer to deal with fewer suppliers to reduce the
   activities and costs connected with purchasing and
   administration.  They are also looking for companies like
   Cintas who can provide on-line, paperless ordering, billing
   and control systems.  This trend is having a positive
   impact on Cintas because we have already spent millions of
   dollars to develop and perfect these systems to meet our
   customers' needs.
   
   CATALOG PROGRAM
   
   Our Catalog Program continues to show healthy growth and a
   promising future.  By leveraging our inventory and
   distribution capabilities, we are able to provide a
   valuable service to our customers through the Catalog
   Program.  This program provides our customers with a
   convenient method to purchase shoes, belts, socks, safety
   gear, foul weather gear and all the accessories that a
   worker might need on the job. 
   
   MARKET RESEARCH
   
   We have a first-class Marketing Department.  Their primary
   focus is to fully understand customer and prospect needs
   and expectations so that we can continue to differentiate
   ourselves through the development of better service
   techniques and products.  Each year, more than 20,000
   customers are surveyed to monitor our performance on an
   ongoing basis.  In-person interviews are conducted with
   hundreds of uniform wearers and decision makers to evaluate
   new product and service concepts.  
   
   TRAINING ACTIVITIES
   
   Training is a key element in the development of Cintas
   partners.  In fiscal 1995, we conducted 42 in-house
   seminars covering important management topics such as
   corporate culture and quality.   We also rolled out an
   advanced course in service leadership.   Cintas'  service
   supervisors and managers collectively invested over 10,000
   hours in an intense  training program to learn and
   reinforce concepts on world-class service and exceeding
   customers' expectations.  These managers are responsible
   for the ongoing weekly training of over 1,500 service sales
   representatives.  Cintas is committed to providing  our
   partners with the best tools and techniques needed to serve
   our customers in the most effective and efficient way
   possible.
   
   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
   
   In fiscal 1995, we created a centralized Research and
   Development Group to
   spearhead our continuing efforts to improve productivity
   and quality.  A large part of their effort involves the
   development of new technology to use in our operations. 
   Our new plants have exciting equipment and automation, much
   of which was designed in-house by this group.  We
   continually test new equipment, material handling concepts,
   delivery systems and computer software so that we can  be
   the best-cost producer.
   
   QUALITY PROGRAM
   
   Our people are empowered to meet the needs of our
   customers.  A few years ago, we implemented a new approach
   to total quality management called "Continuous Process
   Improvement (CPI)".  We are never satisfied with the
   "status quo".  With the tools of CPI, we question every
   step taken in performing our jobs and we identify
   opportunities to improve productivity.  We then measure our
   progress through an extensive customer feedback system.
   
                            -18-
   
   
   THE ULTIMATE COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
   
   Our culture attracts a certain kind of people -- people who
   have common beliefs and values --working together as a team
   -- and these people have set new records for twenty-six
   years in a row!   We are more committed and enthusiastic
   and, just like a sports team, the team with the best
   players who are willing to work hard and who have a winning
   attitude is the team that wins!  This is the ultimate
   competitive advantage.  Our competitors can copy our
   service systems and our sales literature, but not our
   culture.  It is intangible, rare and difficult to emulate. 
   It is amazing to see the power of our Corporate Culture. 
   "The Spirit is the Difference."
   
                               -19-
   

   
                             -20-

   
                       See accompanying notes.
   
                                -21-
   
   
                     See accompanying notes.
   
                                -22-
   
   
                            See accompanying notes.

                                   -23-


                             See accompanying notes.

                                      -24-

    
                      CINTAS CORPORATION
         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Amounts in thousands except per share and share data)
   
   1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
   
      Business description.  Cintas provides a highly
   specialized service to businesses of all types--from small
   service companies to major corporations that employ
   thousands of people.  The Company designs, manufactures and
   implements corporate identity uniform programs which it
   rents or sells to customers throughout the United States
   and Canada.
      Principles of consolidation.  The consolidated financial
   statements include the accounts of Cintas Corporation and
   its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned.
   Intercompany balances and transactions have been
   eliminated.
      Earnings per share is calculated on the basis of the
   weighted average number of shares of common stock
   outstanding during the year, including the dilutive effect,
   if any, of assumed conversion of common stock equivalents.
      Cash flows.  For purposes of the statement of cash
   flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments
   with a maturity of three months or less, at date of
   purchase, to be cash equivalents.  
      Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in,
   first-out) or market.  Substantially all inventories
   represent finished goods.
      Uniforms and other rental items in service are valued at
   cost less amortization, calculated using the straight-line
   method generally over periods of eight to eighteen months.
      Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line
   method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
      Other assets consist primarily of service contracts and
   non-compete or consulting agreements obtained through the
   acquisition of businesses, which are amortized by use of
   the straight-line method over the estimated lives of the
   agreements which are generally five to ten years and
   goodwill which is amortized using the straight-line method
   over forty years.
   
     2. MARKETABLE SECURITIES
   
      All marketable equity securities and debt securities are
   classified as available-for-sale.  The amortized cost of
   debt securities in this category is adjusted for
   amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to
   maturity.  Such amortization is included in investment
   income.  Realized gains and losses and declines in value
   determined to be other-than-temporary on available-for-sale
   securities are included in investment income.  The cost of
   the securities sold is based on the specific identification
   method.  Interest and dividends on securities classified as
   available-for-sale are included in investment income.
   
   The following is a summary of marketable securities at May
   31, 1995:
   
   
      The gross realized gains on sales of available-for-sale
   securities totaled $154, $42 and $6, for the years ended
   May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, and the gross realized losses
   totaled $203, $78 and $29, respectively.  Net unrealized
   losses are $314 at May 31, 1995.  Marketable securities are
   carried at cost which approximates market.
   
      The amortized cost and estimated fair value of debt and
   marketable equity securities at May 31, 1995, by
   contractual maturity are shown below.  Expected maturities
   will differ from contractual maturities because the issuers
   of the securities may have the right to prepay the
   obligations without prepayment penalties.
   
                               -25-
   
   
   
      Debt in the amount of $50,272 is secured by assets with
   a carrying value of $45,935 at May 31, 1995, and letters of
   credit in the amount of $12,175.  Maturities of long-term
   debt during the five years ending May 31, 2000 are:  
   $10,030, $29,265, $6,613, $6,398 and $24,385, respectively. 
   At May 31, 1995, the fair value of the 
   
                               -26-
   
   
   Company's outstanding debt approximates its carrying value.
   
      Interest expense is net of capitalization of $638, $449
   and $415 for the years ended May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
   respectively.  Interest paid, net of amount capitalized,
   was $7,453, $7,008 and $6,917 for the years ended May 31,
   1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
   
   6. LEASES
   
      The Company conducts certain operations from leased
   facilities and leases certain equipment.  Most leases
   contain renewal options for periods from one to ten years. 
   The lease agreements provide for increases in rentals if
   the options are exercised based on increases in certain
   price level factors or prearranged increases.  The minimum
   rental payments for the five years ending May 31, 2000 are: 
   $3,357, $2,772, $2,501, $2,151 and $2,029, respectively. 
   Rent expense under operating leases during the years ended
   May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 was approximately $5,369,
   $4,258 and $3,823, respectively.
   
   
   
      SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, was adopted
   by the Company effective June 1, 1993, without restatement
   of prior period financial statements or recording of a
   cumulative adjustment.  The adoption of SFAS No. 109
   resulted primarily in the reclassification of certain
   deferred tax balances.
      The components of deferred income taxes included on the
   balance sheets at May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, are as
   follows:
   
   
   Income taxes paid were $35,362, $29,741 and $20,938 for the
   years ended May 31, 1995, 1994 and 
   
                               -27-
   
   
   1993, respectively.
   
   8. ACQUISITIONS
   
      On February 13, 1995, the Company acquired 80% of the
   outstanding stock of Cadet Uniform Services, Ltd., a
   prominent uniform rental company in Toronto, Ontario, for
   approximately $41 million which was financed through
   borrowings.  The purchase increased the Company's ownership
   from 20% to 100%.  Cadet has annual sales volume of
   approximately $22 million.
   
   Information relating to the acquisitions of uniform rental
   businesses which were accounted for as purchases is as
   follows:
   
   
      In addition to the acquisitions reflected in the table,
   the Company acquired one business in fiscal 1995 by
   reissuing 219,765 treasury shares and accounted for the
   acquisition as a purchase.  The Company acquired one
   business in fiscal 1993 in exchange for 180,383 shares of
   common stock which was accounted for as a pooling of
   interests.
   
      The results of operations from the acquired businesses
   are included in the consolidated statements of income from
   the dates of acquisition.  The unaudited proforma results
   of operations for the years ended May 31, 1995 and 1994,
   assuming the acquisitions had occurred on June 1 of each
   respective year, would be approximately as follows:
   
   
      The unaudited pro forma results of operations are not
   necessarily indicative of the actual operating results that
   would have occurred had the acquisitions been consummated
   on June 1 of each respective year or of future operating
   results of the combined companies.
   
                            -28-
   
   9. CINTAS PARTNERS' PLAN
   
      The Cintas Partners' Plan (the Plan) is a non-contributory profit
   sharing plan and ESOP for the benefit
   of Company employees who have completed one year of
   service.  Contributions to the Plan are determined at the
   discretion of the Company.  Effective June 1, 1993, the
   Company added a defined contribution feature to the Plan
   covering substantially all employees.  A maximum 20%
   matching contribution to the Plan may be made at the
   Company's discretion.  Total contributions, including the
   Company's matching contributions, were $4,956, $4,300 and
   $3,700 for the years ended May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
   respectively.
   
   
   10. STOCK OPTIONS
   
      Under a stock option plan adopted by the Company in
   fiscal 1993, the Company may grant officers and key
   employees incentive stock options and/or non-qualified
   stock options to purchase an aggregate of 2,300,000 shares
   of the Company's common stock.  Options are generally
   granted at the fair market value of the underlying common
   stock on the date of grant and generally become exercisable
   at the rate of 20% per year commencing five years after
   grant, so long as the holder remains an employee of the
   Company.
   
      The information presented in the following table relates
   to incentive stock options granted and outstanding under
   either the plan adopted in fiscal 1993, or under a similar
   plan which expired in June 1993.
   
   
      In addition to the outstanding incentive stock options
   reflected in the table there were 205,170, 188,750 and
   188,750 outstanding non-qualified stock options at May 31,
   1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  During fiscal 1995,
   16,420 non-qualified stock options were granted and none
   were exercised.  At May 31, 1995, the exercise prices of
   these outstanding options ranged from $7.96 to $36.75 and
   113,500 of these outstanding options were exercisable.
   
      At May 31, 1995, 4,037,000 shares of common stock are
   reserved for future issuance.
   
                               -29-
   
   
   11. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
   
      The following is a summary of the results of operations
   for each of the quarters within the years ended May 31,
   1995 and 1994:
   

