10-K


a05-13922_110k.htm

10-K

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.  20549

FORM 10-K

Commission File No. 0-11399

CINTAS CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Incorporated under

the Laws of Washington

6800 Cintas Boulevard

P.O. Box 625737

Cincinnati, Ohio  45262-5737

No. 31-1188630

(State or other juris-

diction of incorporation

or organization)

(Address of principal executive offices)

IRS Employer ID

Phone:  (513) 459-1200

(Telephone
number of principal executive offices)

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

None

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, No Par Value

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

YES

NO

ý

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained
to the best of the Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to the Form 10-K.

ý

Indicated by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer
(as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).

YES

NO

ý

o

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates
as of November 30, 2004, was $7,677,965,352 based on a closing sale price of
$44.72 per share.  As of July 31, 2005, 172,249,416
shares of Common Stock were issued and 168,324,186 shares were outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the
Commission for its 2005 Annual Meeting are incorporated by reference in Part II
and Part III as specified.

CINTAS CORPORATION

INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT

ON FORM 10-K

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe
harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements may be identified
by words such as “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “plans,” “expects,” “intends,”
“believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “should,” “may” and “will” or the negative
versions thereof and similar expressions and by the context in which they are
used.  Such statements are based upon
current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made.  These statements are subject to various
risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to
differ from those set forth in or implied by this Annual Report.  Factors that might cause such a difference include,
but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating
costs, lower sales volumes, the performance and costs of integration of
acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased
medical costs, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities,
uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and
liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation, the cost,
results and timely completion of assessment and remediation of internal
controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
the initiation or outcome of litigation, higher assumed sourcing or
distribution costs of products, changes in federal and state tax laws and the
reactions of competitors in terms of price and service.  Cintas undertakes no obligation to update any
forward-looking statements to reflect the events or circumstances arising after
the date on which they are made.


PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

Cintas Corporation, a Washington
corporation, provides highly specialized services to businesses of all types
throughout the United States and Canada. 
Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity uniform
programs, provides entrance mats, shop towels, restroom supplies, promotional
products, first aid, safety and fire protection products and services and
document management services for over 700,000 businesses.  Cintas was founded in 1968 by Richard T.
Farmer, Chairman of the Board, when he left his family’s industrial laundry
business in order to develop uniform programs using an exclusive new
fabric.  In the early 1970’s, Cintas
acquired the family industrial laundry business.

Cintas classifies its businesses into two
operating segments: Rentals and Other Services. 
The Rentals operating segment designs and manufactures corporate
identity uniforms which it rents to its customers.  Other items, including entrance mats, shop
towels and restroom supplies, are also rented or sold to its customers.  The Other Services operating segment involves
the design, manufacture and direct sale of uniforms to its customers as well as
the sale of ancillary products and services. 
These ancillary products and services include first aid, safety and fire
protection products and services, document management services and cleanroom
supplies.

The primary markets served by Cintas are local in nature and highly
fragmented.  Competition for this
business varies at each of Cintas’ locations. 
There are other companies in the uniform rental business which have
financial resources comparable to those of Cintas, although much of the
competition consists of smaller local and regional firms. In certain instances,
local competitors may also have financial resources comparable to those of Cintas
in a particular market.  Cintas believes
that the primary competitive factors that affect these operations are product,
quality, service, design and price.

Cintas serves these markets principally through the rental and cleaning
of uniforms as well as providing ongoing uniform replacements as required to
each customer.  Cintas also provides
ancillary products and services which include the rental or sale of entrance
mats, shop towels, mops, linen and restroom products and first aid, safety and
fire protection products and services and document management services.

Due to its diverse customer base and average account size, the loss of
one account would not have a significant financial impact on Cintas.  No individual customer accounts for greater
than one percent of Cintas’ total revenues.

In its sale of customized uniforms, Cintas competes on a national basis
with other uniform suppliers and manufacturers. 
Cintas believes that the primary competitive factors that affect these
operations are design, service and price.

Cintas operates fourteen manufacturing facilities, which provide for a
substantial amount of its standard uniform needs.  Additional products are purchased from
numerous outside suppliers. Because of Cintas’ ability to manufacture much of
its own uniform needs, the loss of one vendor would not have a significant
impact on Cintas.  Cintas purchases
fabric, used in its manufacturing process, from several suppliers.  Cintas is not aware of any circumstances that
would hinder its ability to obtain these materials.

Cintas is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, as are
other companies in the industry.  While
environmental compliance is not a material component of our costs, Cintas must
incur capital expenditures and associated operating costs, primarily for water
treatment and waste removal, on a regular basis.  Environmental spending related to water
treatment and waste removal was approximately $14 million in fiscal 2005 and approximately
$12 million in fiscal 2004.  Capital expenditures
to limit or monitor hazardous substances were $4 million in fiscal 2005 and $3
million in fiscal 2004.  These
expenditures were primarily related to the purchase of water treatment systems,
which are depreciated over a useful life of ten years.  Cintas does not expect a material change in
the cost of environmental compliance on a percent to sale basis and is not
aware of any material non-compliance with environmental laws.

At May 31, 2005, Cintas employed approximately 30,000 employees of
which approximately 450 were represented by labor unions.  Since January 2003, Cintas has been the
target of a corporate unionization campaign by UNITE HERE and the Teamsters
unions.  These unions are attempting to
pressure Cintas


into surrendering its employees’ rights to a government-supervised
election and unilaterally accept union representation.  This is unacceptable.  Cintas’ philosophy in regard to unions is
straightforward:  We believe that
employees have the right to say yes to union representation and the freedom to
say no.  This campaign could be
materially disruptive to our business and could materially adversely affect
results of operations.  We will continue
to vigorously oppose this campaign and to defend our employees’ rights.  Cintas considers its relationships with its
employees to be satisfactory.

Cintas files annual and quarterly reports and proxy materials with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The
public may copy these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, N.E., Room 1580 Washington, D.C. 
20549 and may obtain further information concerning the operation of the
Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (202) 551-8090.  The SEC maintains an internet site that contains
the same information regarding Cintas that is filed electronically with the
SEC.  The address of that site is:
http://www.sec.gov.  Cintas’ Annual
Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form
8-K and amendments to those reports are posted on its website, www.cintas.com,
as soon as practicable after filing with the SEC.

The following table sets forth the revenues derived from each service
segment provided by Cintas.

See Note 13 entitled Segment Information in “Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.”


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

Cintas occupies 377 facilities located in 280 cities, of which 193
facilities are leased for various terms ranging from monthly to the year
2015.  Cintas expects that it will be able
to renew its leases on satisfactory terms. 
Of the fourteen manufacturing facilities listed below, Cintas controls
the operations of four of these manufacturing plants, but does not own or lease
the real estate related to these operations. 
All other properties are owned. 
The corporate offices provide centrally located administrative functions
including accounting, finance, marketing and computer system development and
support. Cintas operates processing plants that house administrative, sales and
service personnel and the necessary equipment involved in the cleaning of
uniforms and bulk items, such as entrance mats and shop towels.  Branch operations provide administrative,
sales and service functions. Cintas operates seven distribution centers and fourteen
manufacturing plants.  Cintas also
operates first aid, safety and fire protection and document management
facilities and direct sales offices. 
Cintas considers the facilities it operates to be adequate for their
intended use. Cintas owns or leases 10,725 vehicles.

The following chart provides additional information concerning Cintas’
facilities:

Rental processing plants, rental branches, distribution centers and
manufacturing facilities are used in Cintas’ Rentals segment.  Rental processing plants, rental branches,
first aid facilities, document management facilities, distribution centers,
manufacturing facilities and direct sale offices are all used in the Other
Services segment.

* Includes the Corporate office, which is attached to the distribution
center in Cincinnati, OH.


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

I. Supplemental Information:  We
discuss certain legal proceedings pending against us in Part II of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data,” in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, which
is captioned “Litigation and Other Contingencies,” and “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under
“Litigation and Other Contingencies,” and refer you to those discussions for
important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for
such actions and, where known, the relief sought.  We provide the following additional
information concerning those legal proceedings which sets forth the name of the
lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending and the date on which the
petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.

Wage and Hour Litigation:

Paul Veliz, et al., v.
Cintas Corporation

, United States District Court, Northern District
of California, Oakland Division, March 19, 2003

.

Race and Gender Litigation and Related
Charges:

Robert
Ramirez, et al., v. Cintas Corporation

, United States District
Court, Northern District of California, San Francisco Division, January 20,

; Mirna E. Serrano, et al., v. Cintas Corporation

,
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern
Division, May 10, 2004;

Larry Houston, et al., v.
Cintas Corporation

, United States District Court for the Northern
District of California, August 3, 2005; EEOC charge filed by Mirna Serrano on
April 17, 2000 with the EEOC Detroit District; EEOC charge filed by James
Morgan on December 15, 2004 with the EEOC Washington, D.C. office and the
California Department of Fair Employment and Housing; EEOC charge filed by an
EEOC Commissioner on November 30, 2004 with the EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit;
EEOC charge filed by Jennifer Fargo on January 24, 2005 with the Augusta Human
Relations Commission and the EEOC Detroit District; EEOC charge filed by
Clifton Cooper on March 23, 2005 with the EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit; EEOC
charge filed by Lorelei Reynolds on March 28, 2005 with the EEOC Birmingham
District; EEOC charge filed by Melissa Schulz on April 25, 2005 with the EEOC
Systemic Litigation Unit and the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries, Civil
Rights Division; EEOC charge filed by Anthony Jones on May 6, 2005 with the
EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit and EEOC charge filed by Mattie Cooper on June
10, 2005 with the EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit.

Breach of Fiduciary Duties:

J. Lester Alexander, III
vs. Cintas Corp., et al.,

United States Bankruptcy Court for the
Middle District of Alabama, Eastern Division, October 25, 2004.

II. Environmental Matters:  Item
103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental
matters.  The following matters are
disclosed in accordance with that requirement:

During fiscal 2001, the State of Connecticut filed suit against Cintas
in the Superior Court District of Hartford alleging various violations of state
environmental laws and alleging that Cintas violated certain wastewater
discharge and hazardous waste violations. 
While this proceeding is not considered material to the business or
financial condition of the registrant, management reasonably believes that the
proceedings will result in monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000.  A reserve has been established for the
estimated liability related to these allegations.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
HOLDERS

None in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY,

RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Market Information

Cintas Corporation’s
Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol “CTAS”.  The following table shows the high and low
closing prices by quarter during the last two fiscal years.

Holders

At May 31, 2005, there
were approximately 2,000 shareholders of record of Cintas’ Common Stock.  Cintas believes that this represents
approximately 65,000 beneficial owners.

Dividends

Dividends on the
outstanding Common Stock are paid annually and amounted to $0.32 per share,
$0.29 per share and $0.27 per share in fiscal 2005, fiscal 2004 and fiscal
2003, respectively.

Equity Compensation Plan
Information


Recent Sales of
Unregistered Securities

None in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2005.

Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities

On May 2, 2005, Cintas announced that the Board of Directors authorized
a $500 million stock repurchase program at market prices.  During fiscal 2005, we purchased
approximately 1.5 million shares of Cintas stock at an average price of $39.62
per share, for a total purchase price of approximately $58 million.  The Board did not specify an expiration date
for this program.

In fiscal 2005, Cintas also acquired 100,921 shares as payment received
from employees upon the exercise of options under the stock option plan.

In addition to the purchases made in fiscal 2005, as provided in the
table above, Cintas has subsequently purchased 2.4 million shares of
Cintas stock at an average price of $39.08 per share for a purchase price of
approximately $96 million. As such, from the inception of the stock repurchase
program through July 22, 2005, Cintas has purchased a total of
approximately 3.9 million shares of Cintas stock at an average price of
$39.27 per share for a total purchase price of approximately $154 million.
The maximum approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under
the plan as of July 22, 2005, is $345,856,218.


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Eleven Year Financial Summary

(In thousands except per share and percentage data)

Note:

Results
prior to March 24, 1999, have been restated to include Unitog Company. Results
prior to April 8, 1998, have also been restated to include Uniforms To You
Companies.

(1)

Results
for 1998 and prior years were adjusted on a pro forma basis to reflect the true
tax impact of Uniforms To You as if it had been reported as a C Corporation
prior to the merger with Cintas.

(2)

Return
on average equity using pro forma net income.

(3)

Represents
the 10-year compound annual growth rate based on revenue as restated for
pooling of interests transactions noted above.


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

BUSINESS STRATEGY

We are North America’s leading provider of corporate identity uniforms
through rental and sales programs, as well as a significant provider of related
business services, including entrance mats, restroom products and services,
first aid, safety and fire protection products and services, document
management services and cleanroom services. 
Our services are designed to enhance our customers’ images and to
provide additional safety and protection in the workplace.

Our business strategy is to increase our market share of the uniform
rental and sales business in North America through the sale of new uniform
programs and to provide our customers with all of the products and services we
offer.  We will also continue to identify
additional product and service opportunities for our current and future
customers.  Our long-term goal is to
provide a product or service to every business in North America.

To pursue this strategy, we focus on the development of a highly
talented and diverse team of employees (who we call partners) – a team that is
properly trained and motivated to service our customers.  We support our partners’ service efforts by
providing superior products with distinct competitive advantages, and we
embrace technological advances.

Continuous cost containment and product and process innovation are
considered hallmarks of our organization. 
In order to sustain these efforts, we have implemented a Six Sigma
effort within Cintas.  Six Sigma is an
analytical process that assists companies in improving quality and customer
satisfaction while reducing cycle time and operating costs.  We are pleased with our progress in this
endeavor and are optimistic about the improved efficiencies that this process
will yield to Cintas.

We continue to leverage our size and core competencies to become a more
valued business service provider to our current and future customers.  We will also continue to supplement our
internal growth with strategic acquisitions and the cultivation of new
businesses.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Fiscal 2005 marked the 36

th

consecutive year of
uninterrupted growth in sales and profits for Cintas.  In addition to achieving this milestone,
Cintas experienced healthy improvements in profitability, cash flow and balance
sheet strength.

Cintas classifies its businesses into two operating segments: Rentals
and Other Services.  The Rentals
operating segment designs and manufactures corporate identity uniforms, which
it rents to its customers.  Other items,
including entrance mats, shop towels and restroom supplies, are also rented or
sold to its customers.  The Other
Services operating segment involves the design, manufacture and direct sale of
uniforms to customers, as well as the sale of ancillary products and
services.  These ancillary products and
services include first aid, safety and fire protection products and services,
document management services and cleanroom supplies.  These services are provided throughout the
United States and Canada to businesses of all types - from small service and
manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ thousands of people.


The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements of income
data as a percentage of revenue by reporting segment and in total for the
periods indicated:

As evidenced above, our revenue growth has been higher in Other
Services versus Rentals during fiscal 2005, resulting in a moderate shift in
the percentage of revenue between our reporting segments.  This shift was mainly driven by the
acquisitions of first aid, safety and fire protection businesses and document
management businesses.  Information
related to acquisitions is discussed in Note 8 entitled Acquisitions of “Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

FISCAL 2005 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2004

Fiscal 2005 total revenue was $3.1 billion, an increase of 9.0% over
fiscal 2004.  Internal growth improved
throughout fiscal 2005 and was 6.3% for the year.  As the economy continued to strengthen and
employment rates improved, our internal growth rates improved.  Internal growth by quarter is shown in the
table below.  Internal growth percentages
have been adjusted for the appropriate number of workdays, by quarter and for
the year, where applicable.

Historically, increases in our internal growth rate have lagged an
economic upturn as customers add individuals to existing rental or sales
programs or enter into new rental or sales programs.  Our internal growth continues to be generated
mainly through the continued sale of uniform rental programs to new customers
and the increased penetration of ancillary products to our existing customer
base.  The remaining growth in total
revenue was generated predominantly through acquisitions of first aid, safety
and fire protection service businesses and document management businesses.  Information related to acquisitions is
discussed in Note 8 entitled Acquisitions of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.”


Rentals operating segment revenues consist predominantly of revenues
derived from the rental and/or sale of corporate identity uniforms, mats, shop
towels, restroom supplies and other rental services.  Revenue from the Rentals segment increased
7.4% over fiscal 2004.  Internal revenue
growth for the Rentals segment was 6.8% in fiscal 2005 compared to 4.2% in
fiscal 2004.  The 0.6% of remaining
growth in fiscal 2005 resulted from the acquisition of rental volume.

The increase in Rentals revenue was primarily due to growth in the
customer base as well as the continued penetration of ancillary products into
our existing customer base.  New business
remained healthy as we experienced continued success in selling uniform rental
programs to new customers.  We also
continued to expand our rental market, with over half of our new business being
comprised of customers who were first time users of uniform rental
programs.  Rentals revenue growth was
partially offset by lost business of approximately 7.0%.

Other Services operating segment revenues are predominantly derived
from the design, manufacture and direct sale of uniforms to our customers and
the sale of other direct sale products and services.  Other direct sale products and services
include cleanroom supplies, first aid, safety and fire protection products and
services and document management services. 
Other Services revenue increased 14.9% over fiscal 2004, primarily due
to acquisitions of first aid, safety and fire protection businesses and
document management businesses.

Internal revenue growth in the Other Services segment was 4.4% for the
year.  This increase was mainly driven by
the growth of the sale of first aid, safety and fire protection products and
services and document management services. 
Growth in these areas continues to be through an increase in the
customer base and through further penetration of additional products and
services into our existing customer base.

Cost of rentals increased 6.0% over fiscal 2004.  Cost of rentals consists primarily of
production expenses, delivery expenses and the amortization of in service
inventory, including uniforms, mats, shop towels and other rental items.  The cost increase over fiscal 2004 was
primarily driven by the growth in Rentals segment revenues.  Rising oil and fuel costs also contributed to
this increase.  Various cost containment
initiatives implemented throughout the year provided a decrease in cost of
rentals as a percent to Rentals revenue from 55.5% in fiscal 2004 to 54.8% in
fiscal 2005.

Cost of other services increased 15.2% over fiscal 2004.  Cost of other services consists primarily of
cost of goods sold (predominantly uniforms and first aid products), delivery
expenses and distribution expenses.  The
increase over fiscal 2004 was due to the growth in Other Services revenue,
derived through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions.  Gross margin within this segment generally
fluctuates between 30% to 35%, depending on the type of product or service
sold.  Products which require additional
services generate higher gross margins. 
The gross margin for fiscal 2005 is 33.7%, which is in the upper portion
of that general range, mainly due to a shift in the product mix.

Selling and administrative expenses increased 11.4% over fiscal
2004.  Selling and administrative
expenses increased mainly due to higher selling expenses.  In order to accelerate revenue growth, we
have increased our sales force, marketing plans and sales promotions.  These measures combined to increase our
selling costs by approximately $36 million over the prior fiscal year.  The cost of providing medical benefits to our
employees also increased approximately $15 million.  The costs of providing medical benefits are
anticipated to continue to rise.

Net interest expense decreased $5 million from the prior fiscal
year.  This decrease was primarily a
result of increased interest income due to higher levels of cash and marketable
securities throughout the entire year and an increase in the interest rate
environment.

Pre-tax income was $477 million, a 10.4% increase over fiscal
2004.  Pre-tax income from the Rentals
segment increased 9.2% over the prior year due to higher rental revenue and
various cost containment initiatives, which more than offset the increases in
selling expenses and medical costs. 
Pre-tax income for the Other Services segment decreased 1.4% from the
prior year mainly due to increased selling expenses and medical costs.

Cintas’ effective tax rate was 37.0% for both fiscal 2005 and fiscal
2004 (see also Note 7 entitled Income Taxes of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements” and the Outlook section below).

Net income for fiscal 2005 of $301 million was a 10.4% increase over
fiscal 2004 and diluted earnings per share of $1.74 was a 10.1% increase over
fiscal 2004, both of which are consistent with the increases in pre-tax
income.  Return on average equity was
approximately 15% in both fiscal 2005 and 2004. 
Return on average equity is computed as net income divided by the average
of shareholders’ equity.

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased by $55
million in fiscal 2005, or 21.7%, primarily due to increased revenues.  Cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities will be used to finance future acquisitions, capital


expenditures, expansion and
possible stock repurchases.  Marketable
securities consist primarily of municipal bonds and federal government
securities.

Accounts receivable increased $41 million due to increased revenues.
Accounts receivable also increased due to a loan to an affiliated company.  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the
Board of Directors approved and Cintas provided a $10 million loan to an
affiliated company with specific repayment terms over the next three
years.  This affiliated company
manufactures a significant portion of Cintas’ mats.  A dividend of $5 million was subsequently
received by Cintas from this affiliate in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.

Inventories increased $28 million mainly due to increased
revenues.  Other contributing factors
include the continued increase in international sourcing of product, a current
conversion of our comfort pant to a new fabric and style, and additional
inventory requirements for our Uniform Book, a large catalog used for the
direct sale of uniforms and accessories.

Net property and equipment increased by $32 million due to continued
investment in rental facilities and equipment and real estate purchased in
conjunction with the acquisitions of first aid, safety and fire protection and
document management businesses.  Capital
expenditures exceeded depreciation expense by $21 million.   During the year, Cintas completed
construction of five new uniform rental facilities and has an additional three
uniform rental facilities in various stages of construction to accommodate
growth in rental operations.

Total debt decreased $12 million through repayment of certain debt, net
of the change in fair market value of the debt (see Note 5 entitled Long-Term
Debt of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”).

FISCAL 2004 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2003

Fiscal 2004 total revenue was $2.8 billion, an increase of 4.7% over
fiscal 2003.  This growth was achieved
despite the difficult economic environment that existed for much of the
year.  Internal growth for fiscal 2004,
when adjusted for the additional workday in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal
2003, was 3.0%.  Weakness in employment
numbers through the first half of our fiscal year directly affected our
business, mainly through reduced uniform wearers and usage of related products,
and caused our internal growth rate to be lower than our stated objective.  As employment numbers strengthened over the
second half of the year, our internal growth rates improved.  Internal growth by quarter is shown in the
table below.  Internal growth percentages
have been adjusted for the appropriate number of workdays, by quarter and for
the year, where applicable.

Historically, increases in our internal growth rate have lagged an
economic upturn as customers add individuals to existing rental or sales
programs or enter into new rental or sales programs.  Our internal growth continues to be generated
mainly through the continued sale of uniform rental programs to new customers
and the increased penetration of ancillary products to our existing customer
base.

The remaining growth in total revenue was generated predominantly
through acquisitions of first aid and safety service businesses and document
management businesses.  Information
related to acquisitions is discussed in Note 8 entitled Acquisitions of “Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

Rentals operating segment revenues consist predominantly of revenues
derived from the rental and/or sale of corporate identity uniforms, mats, shop
towels, restroom supplies and other rental services.  Revenue from the Rentals segment increased
4.3%, when adjusted for the extra workday that occurred in fiscal 2004 as
compared to fiscal 2003.  Internal revenue
growth for the Rentals segment was 4.2%, adjusted for the additional
workday.  The amount of acquired rental
volume was insignificant for the year ending May 31, 2004.

The increase in Rentals revenue was primarily due to growth in the
customer base as well as the continued penetration of ancillary products into
our existing customer base.  New business
remained healthy as we experienced continued


success in selling uniform rental programs to new customers.  We continue to expand our rental market, with
over half of our new business being comprised of customers who were first time
users of uniform rental programs.  Rentals
revenue growth was mitigated by lost business and reductions in existing business
attributable to the sluggish economy, especially during the first half of the
year.

Other Services operating segment revenues are predominantly derived
from the design, manufacture and direct sale of uniforms to our customers and
the sale of other direct sale products and services.  Other direct sale products and services
include cleanroom supplies, first aid and safety products and services and
document management services.  Other
Services revenue increased 4.4%, when adjusted for the extra workday that
occurred in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003, primarily due to
acquisitions of first aid and safety services and document management
businesses.

Internal revenue in the Other Services segment, adjusted for the
additional workday in fiscal 2004, decreased by 1.3% for the year.  This decrease was mainly due to the continued
difficulty experienced by our uniform direct sale customers in the hospitality
and airline industries.  Weakness in the
hospitality sector and delayed purchases by large national account customers have
continued to impact our direct sales effort. 
Partially offsetting this internal revenue decrease in uniform direct
sale revenues were increased revenues from the sale of first aid products and
services and document management services.

Cost of rentals increased 4.2% over fiscal 2003.  Cost of rentals consists primarily of
production expenses, delivery expenses and the amortization of in service
inventory, including uniforms and other rental items.  The cost increase over fiscal 2003 was
primarily driven by the growth in Rentals segment revenues.  An increase in fuel and energy costs and a
rise in labor delivery costs also contributed to this increase.  Further assimilation of operations obtained
through the Omni acquisition and various cost containment initiatives
implemented throughout the year mitigated the increased fuel, energy and
delivery costs.

Cost of other services increased 2.8% over fiscal 2003.  Cost of other services consists primarily of
cost of goods sold (predominantly uniforms and first aid products), delivery
expenses and distribution expenses.  The
increase over fiscal 2003 was due to the growth in Other Services revenue,
derived predominantly through acquisitions. 
The increased volume afforded additional overhead coverage, thereby
providing a decrease in cost of other services as a percent to Other Services
revenue from 67.3% in fiscal 2003 to 66.1% in fiscal 2004.  Sourcing and manufacturing efficiencies and
other cost containment initiatives, including Six Sigma initiatives,
implemented throughout the year supported this reduction in cost of other
services as a percent to Other Services revenue.

Selling and administrative expenses increased 4.6% over fiscal 2003,
primarily due to increased revenues.  The
continued rise in medical costs and increased legal expenses contributed to the
increase.

Net interest expense decreased $6 million from the prior year.  This decrease was primarily a result of lower
debt outstanding.  Total outstanding debt
decreased $79 million from May 31, 2003 to May 31, 2004, as cash from
operations was used to reduce debt which had been incurred predominantly during
the acquisition of Omni in May 2002 (see the Liquidity and Capital Resources
section below and Note 5 entitled Long-Term Debt of “Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements”).

A write-off of a loan receivable from a garment manufacturer is
included in net income as a pre-tax charge of $4.3 million.  Due to developments concerning the supplier’s
viability to remain as a going concern, the collectibility of the receivable
was doubtful.  As such, the receivable
was completely written off.

Pre-tax income was $432 million, a 9.2% increase over fiscal 2003.  Pre-tax income from the Rentals segment
increased 6.7% over the prior year due to higher rental revenue, increased
efficiencies obtained from the assimilation of operations obtained from the
Omni acquisition and various cost containment initiatives.  Pre-tax income for the Other Services segment
increased 19.6% from the prior year, due to increased sales volume, the
continued leveraging of fixed costs and sourcing and cost containment
initiatives.

Cintas’ effective tax rate was 37.0% for both fiscal 2004 and fiscal
2003 (see also Note 7 entitled Income Taxes of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements”).

Net income for fiscal 2004 of $272 million was a 9.2% increase over
fiscal 2003 and diluted earnings per share of $1.58 was a 9.0% increase over
fiscal 2003.  Return on average equity
was 15.4% in fiscal 2004 and 16.2% in fiscal 2003.  Return on average equity is computed as net
income divided by the average of shareholders’ equity.


Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased by $197
million in fiscal 2004, or 341.1%, primarily due to increased revenues, a
reduction in inventory levels and, to a lesser extent, a reduction in uniform
and other rental items in service levels. 
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be used to finance
future acquisitions, capital expenditures and expansion.  Marketable securities consist primarily of
municipal bonds and federal government securities.

Accounts receivable increased $7 million due to increased
revenues.  Aggressive collection efforts
provided for a lower sequential increase in accounts receivable as compared to
total revenue growth.

Inventories decreased $43 million due to improved processes and
management systems, including cycle time reductions and other process
improvements initiated primarily through our Six Sigma process.  The completion of the Omni product line
consolidation also contributed to this decrease in inventory levels.

Net property and equipment increased by $8 million due to real estate
purchased in conjunction with the acquisitions of first aid and safety services
and document management businesses. 
Depreciation expense exceeded capital expenditures by $4 million as
Cintas continued to consolidate operations obtained from the Omni acquisition
in May of 2002.  In addition, due to
excess plant capacity and a sluggish economy, Cintas slowed the pace of new
plant construction.  During the year,
Cintas completed construction of four new uniform rental facilities and has an
additional eight uniform rental facilities in various stages of construction to
accommodate growth in rental operations.

Total debt decreased $79 million through repayment of certain debt
related to the purchase of Omni, net of the change in fair market value of the
debt (see Note 5 entitled Long-Term Debt of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements”).  This significant debt
reduction was possible due to strong cash flows being generated by operations.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At May 31, 2005, Cintas had $309 million in cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities, representing an increase of $55 million from May 31,
2004.  This increase is primarily due to increased
net income.   Cash generated from
operations was $414 million in fiscal 2005 as compared to $510 million
generated in fiscal 2004.  This $96 million
decrease was primarily due to increased accounts receivable and inventory
levels.  Significant uses of cash in
fiscal 2005 were capital expenditures of $141 million, acquisitions of $109
million (net of cash acquired), common stock repurchases of $58 million and
dividends of $55 million.

Cintas’ investment policy pertaining to marketable securities is
conservative.  Preservation of principal,
while earning an attractive yield, is the criteria used in making investment
decisions.

Working capital increased $102 million to $810 million in fiscal
2005.  This increase is primarily the
result of increased cash and marketable securities and accounts receivable.

Capital expenditures for fiscal 2005 totaled $141 million, including
$118 million for the Rentals segment and $23 million for Other Services.  Cintas continues to reinvest in land,
buildings and equipment in an effort to expand capacity for future growth.  Cintas anticipates that capital expenditures
for fiscal 2006 will be between $150 and $170 million.

On May 13, 2002, Cintas completed the acquisition of Omni Services,
Inc.  This acquisition, coupled with
smaller acquisitions in both the Rentals and Other Services segments, was
financed with a combination of cash, long-term notes and commercial paper.  As a result of this additional debt, the
total debt to total capitalization ratio was 33.6% at May 31, 2002.  Significant debt repayments have occurred
since that time, including $11 million in fiscal 2005 and $69 million in fiscal
2004.  The total debt to total
capitalization ratio has decreased to 18.3% at May 31, 2005.

The long-term notes total $500 million and consist of $225 million with
five-year maturities at a rate of 5.125% and $225 million with ten-year
maturities at a rate of 6.0%.  Cintas has
earned credit ratings on these notes of “A” from Standard & Poor’s and “A2”
from Moody’s.  Cintas also utilizes a
$300 million commercial paper program, on which it has earned credit ratings of
“A-1” from Standard & Poor’s and “Prime-1” from Moody’s.  According to Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s,
these ratings reflect Cintas’ commitment to conservative financial policies,
strong financial management and a disciplined integration strategy for
acquisitions.  The commercial paper
program is fully supported by a long-term credit facility that matures in
2009.  As of May 31, 2005, there is no
commercial paper outstanding.  Subsequent
to May 31, 2005, Cintas borrowed $64 million under the $300 million commercial
paper program for short-term cash requirements. 
This financing decision was made in order to allow certain marketable
securities to reach maturity rather than Cintas incurring a penalty for early
redemption.

During the year, Cintas paid dividends of $55 million, or $0.32 per
share.  On a per share basis, this
dividend is an increase of 10.3% over the dividend paid in fiscal 2004.  This marks the 22

nd

consecutive
year that Cintas has increased


its annual dividend since going public in 1983.

On May 2, 2005, Cintas announced that the Board of Directors authorized
a $500 million stock repurchase program at market prices.  During fiscal 2005, we purchased
approximately 1.5 million shares of Cintas stock at an average price of $39.62
per share, for a total purchase price of approximately $58 million.  Due to the stock being purchased late in
fiscal 2005, the amount of purchased shares did not change fiscal 2005 earnings
per share. Subsequent to May 31, 2005, Cintas purchased approximately 2.4
million additional shares of Cintas stock at an average price of $39.08 per
share for a total purchase price of approximately $96 million.  As such, from the inception of the stock
repurchase program through July 22, 2005, Cintas has purchased approximately
3.9 million shares of Cintas stock at an average price of $39.27 per share for
a total purchase price of approximately $154 million.  The Board did not specify an expiration date
for this program.

Following is information regarding Cintas’ long-term contractual
obligations and other commitments outstanding as of May 31, 2005:

LONG-TERM CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

Cintas also makes payments to defined contribution plans.  The amounts of contributions made to the
plans are made at the discretion of Cintas. 
Future contributions are expected to increase 15% annually.  Assuming this 15% increase, payments due in
one year or less would be $29,397, two to three years would be $72,685 and four
to five years would be $96,126.  Payments
for years thereafter are expected to continue increasing by 15% each year.

(1)

Long-term
debt primarily consists of $450,000 in long-term notes related to the Omni
acquisition.  Reference Note 5 entitled
Long-Term Debt of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a detailed
discussion of long-term debt.

(2)

Capital
lease obligations are included in long-term debt detailed in Note 5 entitled
Long-Term Debt of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

(3)

Operating
leases consist primarily of building leases and synthetic leases on two
corporate jets.

(4)

Interest
payments include interest on both fixed and variable rate debt.  Rates have been assumed to increase 100 basis
points for fiscal 2006, an additional 50 basis points in fiscal 2007 and then
remain constant in future years.

(5)

Reference
Note 5 entitled Long-Term Debt of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”
for a detailed discussion of interest swap agreements.

OTHER COMMITMENTS

(1)

Back-up
facility for the commercial paper program (reference Note 5 entitled Long-Term
Debt of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion).


(2)

Support
certain outstanding debt (reference Note 5 entitled Long-Term Debt of “Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements”), self-insured workers’ compensation and
general liability insurance programs.

Cintas has no off-balance sheet
arrangements other than the synthetic leases on two corporate jets.  The synthetic leases on the aircraft do not
currently have, and are not reasonably likely to have, a current or future
material effect on Cintas’ financial condition, changes in Cintas’ financial
condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital
expenditures or capital resources.

INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES

Changes in wages, benefits and oil and fuel costs have the potential to
materially impact Cintas’ financial results. 
Medical benefits and oil and fuel costs, in particular, continue to
rise.  Medical benefit costs have
increased due to a combination of rising healthcare costs and an increase in
the number of covered participants. 
Medical benefits were 3.1% of total revenues in fiscal 2005 and 2.9% of
total revenues in fiscal 2004.  Oil and
fuel costs were 2.8% of total revenues in fiscal 2005 and 2.5% of total
revenues in fiscal 2004.

Management believes inflation has not had a material impact on Cintas’
financial condition or a negative impact on operations.

LITIGATION AND OTHER CONTINGENCIES

Cintas is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising from the
ordinary course of its business, including personal injury, customer contract,
environmental and employment claims.  In
the opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, with respect to
such ordinary course of business actions, will not have a material adverse
effect on the financial position or results of operations of Cintas.  Cintas is party to additional litigation not
considered in the ordinary course of business, including the litigation
discussed below.

Cintas is a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit,

Paul Veliz, et al., v. Cintas Corporation

, filed on March
19, 2003, in the United States District Court, Northern District of California,
Oakland Division, alleging that Cintas violated certain federal and state wage
and hour laws applicable to its service sales representatives, whom Cintas
considers exempt employees, and asserting additional related ERISA claims.  The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified
monetary damages, injunctive relief or both. 
Cintas denies these claims and is defending the plaintiffs’
allegations.  The court ordered
arbitration for all potential plaintiffs except for those that fall into one of
four narrowly defined exceptions.  As a
result, Cintas believes that a majority of the potential plaintiffs will be
required to arbitrate their claims.  No
determination has been made by the court or an arbitrator regarding class
certification.  There can be no assurance
as to whether a class will be certified or, if a class is certified, as to the
geographic or other scope of such class. 
If a court or arbitrator certifies a class in this action and there is
an adverse verdict on the merits, or in the event of a negotiated settlement of
the action, the resulting liability and/or any increased costs of operations on
an ongoing basis could be material to Cintas. 
Any estimated liability relating to this lawsuit is not determinable at
this time.

Cintas is also a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit,

Robert Ramirez, et al., v. Cintas Corporation

, filed on
January 20, 2004, and pending in the United States District Court, Northern
District of California, San Francisco Division. 
The case was brought on behalf of all past and present female,
African-American and Hispanic employees of Cintas and its subsidiaries.  The complaint alleges that Cintas has engaged
in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women and minorities in
recruitment, hiring, promotions, transfers, job assignments and pay.  The complaint seeks injunctive relief,
compensatory damages, punitive damages and attorney’s fees, among other
things.  Cintas denies these claims and
is defending the plaintiffs’ allegations. 
The court ordered arbitration as to three of the ten named
plaintiffs.  On April 27, 2005, the
United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) filed a motion to
intervene in order to participate in this lawsuit.  No filings or determination has been made in
regard to the lawsuit as to class certification.  There can be no assurance as to whether a
class will be certified or, if a class is certified, as to the geographic or
other scope of such class.  Several
related proceedings with similar allegations and seeking similar relief damages
and fees are pending, including an EEOC charge filed on April 17, 2000, by
Mirna Serrano with the EEOC Detroit District office on behalf of female service
sales representative job applicants at all Cintas locations in Michigan, a
class action lawsuit,

Mirna E. Serrano, et al.,
v. Cintas Corporation

, filed on May 10, 2004, in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division on behalf
of the same female service sales representative job applicants in the EEOC
charge, and an administrative action filed on December 15, 2004, by James
Morgan with the EEOC Washington, D.C. office and the California Department of
Fair Employment and Housing alleging racial discrimination in compensation and
training opportunities.  In addition, a
class action lawsuit,

Larry Houston, et al., v.
Cintas Corporation

, was filed on August 3, 2005, in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California on behalf of
African-American managers alleging racial discrimination. If there is an
adverse verdict or a negotiated settlement of these actions, the resulting
liability and/or any increased costs of operations on an ongoing basis could be
material to Cintas.  Any estimated
liability relating to these proceedings is not determinable at this time.


Several other similar administrative proceedings are pending including:
(i) two charges filed on November 30, 2004, by an EEOC Commissioner with the
EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit alleging failure to hire and assign females to
production job positions, and, failing to hire females, African-Americans and
Hispanics into the Management Trainee program, (ii) a charge filed on January
24, 2005, by Jennifer Fargo on behalf of herself and a similarly situated class
with the Augusta Human Relations Commission and the EEOC Detroit District
office alleging gender and equal pay discrimination against female sales representatives
and sales associates, (iii) a charge filed on March 23, 2005, by Clifton Cooper
on behalf of himself and a similarly situated class with the EEOC Systemic
Litigation Unit alleging discriminatory pay and treatment due to race, (iv) a
charge filed on March 28, 2005, by Lorelei Reynolds on behalf of herself and a
similarly situated class with the EEOC Birmingham District alleging
discriminatory pay and treatment due to race and gender, (v) a charge filed on
April 25, 2005, by Melissa Schulz on behalf of herself and a similarly situated
class with the EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit and the Oregon Bureau of Labor and
Industries, Civil Rights Division alleging discriminatory pay and treatment due
to race and gender, (vi) a charge filed on May 6, 2005, by Anthony Jones on
behalf of himself and a similarly situated class with the EEOC Systemic
Litigation Unit alleging discriminatory pay and treatment due to race and (vii)
a charge filed on June 10, 2005, by Mattie Cooper on behalf of herself and a
similarly situated class with the EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit alleging
discriminatory pay and treatment due to race and gender.  The investigations of these allegations are
pending and no determinations have been made.

Cintas is also a defendant in a lawsuit,

J. Lester
Alexander, III vs. Cintas Corp., et al

., which was originally filed
on October 25, 2004, and is currently pending in the United States Bankruptcy
Court for the Middle District of Alabama, Eastern Division.  The case was
brought by J. Lester Alexander, III, the Chapter 7 Trustee (the “Trustee”) of
Terry Manufacturing Company, Inc. (“TMC”) and Terry Uniform Company, LLC (“TUC”),
against Cintas in Randolph County, Alabama.  The Trustee seeks damages
against Cintas for allegedly breaching fiduciary duties to TMC and TUC and for
allegedly aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties by others to those
entities.  The complaint also includes allegations that Cintas breached
certain limited liability company agreements, or alternatively, misrepresented
their intention to perform their obligations in those agreements and acted as
alter egos of the bankrupt TMC and are therefore liable for all of TMC’s
debts.  The Trustee is seeking $50 million in compensatory damages and
$100 million in punitive damages.  Cintas denies these claims and is
vigorously defending itself against all claims in the complaint.   If
there is an adverse verdict on the merits or in the event of a negotiated
settlement of this lawsuit, the resulting liability could be material to Cintas. 
Any estimated liability relating to this lawsuit is not determinable at this
time.

During fiscal 2001, the State of Connecticut filed suit against Cintas
in the Superior Court District of Hartford alleging various violations of state
environmental laws and alleging that Cintas violated certain wastewater
discharge and hazardous waste violations. 
While this proceeding is not considered material to the business or
financial condition of the registrant, management reasonably believes that the
proceedings will result in monetary sanctions in excess of $100 thousand.  A reserve has been established for the
estimated liability related to these allegations.

The litigation discussed above, if decided adversely to or settled by
Cintas, may, individually or in the aggregate, result in liability material to
Cintas’ financial condition or results of operations.  Cintas may enter into discussions regarding
settlement of these and other lawsuits, and may enter into settlement
agreements if it believes such settlement is in the best interests of Cintas’
shareholders.

Cintas is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, as are
other companies in the industry.  While
environmental compliance is not a material component of our costs, Cintas must
incur capital expenditures and associated operating costs, primarily for water
treatment and waste removal, on a regular basis.  Environmental spending related to water
treatment and waste removal was approximately $14 million in fiscal 2005 and
approximately $12 million in fiscal 2004. 
Capital expenditures to limit or monitor hazardous substances were $4
million in fiscal 2005 and $3 million in fiscal 2004.  These expenditures were primarily related to
the purchase of water treatment systems, which are depreciated over a useful
life of ten years.  Cintas does not
expect a material change in the cost of environmental compliance on a percent
to sale basis and is not aware of any material non-compliance with
environmental laws.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004),

Share-Based Payment

,
(Statement 123R) which is a revision of FASB Statement No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

.   Generally, the approach in Statement 123R is
similar to the approach described in Statement 123.  However, Statement
123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of
employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their
fair values.  Pro forma disclosure is no
longer an alternative.  The new standard
will be effective for public entities (excluding small business issuers) no
later than the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005.  Cintas will adopt this Statement no later
than the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Cintas is in the process of determining
the impact that the adoption of this Statement will have on its financial
position and results of operations.


CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The preparation of Cintas’ consolidated financial statements in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires
management to make estimates and judgments that have a significant effect on
the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.  These critical accounting policies should be
read in conjunction with Note 1 entitled Significant Accounting Policies of “Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 
Significant changes, estimates or assumptions related to any of the
following critical accounting policies could possibly have a material impact on
the financial statements.

Revenue recognition

Rental revenue is recognized when services are performed and other
services revenue is recognized either when services are performed or when
products are shipped and the title and risks of ownership pass to the
customer.  Cintas establishes an
allowance for uncollectible accounts. 
This allowance is an estimate based on historical rates of collectibility.  An uncollectible accounts provision is
recorded for overdue amounts, beginning with a nominal percentage and
increasing substantially as the account ages. 
The amount provided as the account ages will differ slightly between the
Rentals and Other Services segments, because of differences in customers served
and the nature of each business segment.

Inventories

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or
market.  Substantially all inventories
represent finished goods.  Cintas applies
a commonly accepted practice of using inventory turns to apply variances
between actual to standard costs to the inventory balances.  The judgments and estimates used to calculate
inventory turns will have an impact on the valuation of inventory at the lower
of cost or market.  Inventory
obsolescence is determined by specific identification, as well as an estimate
based on historical rates of obsolescence.

Uniforms and other rental items in service

Uniform and other rental items in service are valued at cost less
amortization, calculated using the straight-line method.  Uniforms in service (other than cleanroom and
flame resistant garments) are amortized over their useful life of eighteen
months.  Other rental items including
shop towels, mats, cleanroom garments, flame resistant garments, linens and
restroom dispensers are amortized over their useful lives of eight to
forty-eight months.  The amortization
rates used are based on industry experience, Cintas’ experience and wear tests
performed by Cintas.  These factors are
critical to determining the amount of in service inventory that is presented in
the financial statements.

Property and equipment

Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets, which is typically thirty to forty years
for buildings, five to twenty years for building improvements, three to ten
years for equipment and two to five years for leasehold improvements.  When events or circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of long-lived assets may not be recoverable, the estimated
future cash flows (undiscounted) are compared to the carrying amount of the
assets.  If the estimated future cash
flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets, an impairment loss is recorded.  The impairment loss is measured by comparing
the fair value of the assets with their carrying amounts.  Fair value is determined by discounted cash
flows or appraised values, as appropriate. 
Long-lived assets that are held for disposal are reported at the lower
of the carrying amount or the fair value, less estimated costs related to
disposition.

Goodwill and impairment

Goodwill, primarily obtained through
acquisitions of businesses, is valued at cost less any impairment.  Cintas performs annual impairment tests by
segment.  These tests include comparisons
to current market values, where available, and discounted cash flow
analyses.  Significant assumptions
include growth rates based on historical trends and margin improvement
leveraged from such growth.  Based on the
results of the impairment tests, Cintas has not recognized an impairment of
goodwill for the years ended May 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003.

Service contracts and other assets

Service contracts and other assets, which consist primarily of noncompete
and consulting agreements obtained through acquisitions of businesses, are
amortized by use of the straight-line method over the estimated lives of the
agreements, which are generally five to ten years.  Certain noncompete agreements, as well as all
service contracts, require that a valuation be determined using a discounted
cash flow model.  The assumptions and
judgments used in these models


involve estimates of cash flows and discount rates, among other
factors.  Because of the assumptions used
to value these intangible assets, actual results over time could vary from
original estimates.  Impairment of
service contracts and other assets is through specific identification.  No impairment has been recognized by Cintas
for the years ended May 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003.

Environmental matters and related litigation

Cintas is subject to legal proceedings and claims related to
environmental matters arising from the ordinary course of business.  U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
require that a liability for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that
a liability has occurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably
estimated.  Significant judgment is
required to determine the existence of a liability, as well as the amount to be
recorded.  Cintas regularly consults with
attorneys to ensure that all of the relevant facts and circumstances are
considered before a contingent liability is recorded.  While a significant change in assumptions and
judgments could have a material impact on the amounts recorded for contingent
liabilities, Cintas does not believe that they will result in a material
adverse effect on the financial statements. 
A detailed discussion of litigation matters is discussed above in the
section entitled Litigation and Other Contingencies.

Income taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined by the differences
between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets
and liabilities.  Please reference Note 7
entitled Income Taxes of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for the
types of items that give rise to significant deferred income tax assets and
liabilities.  Deferred income taxes are
classified as assets or liabilities based on the classification of the related
asset or liability for financial reporting purposes.  Deferred income taxes that are not related to
an asset or liability for financial reporting are classified according to the
expected reversal date.  Cintas regularly
reviews deferred tax assets for recoverability based upon projected future
taxable income and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary
differences.  As a result of this review,
Cintas has not established a valuation allowance against the deferred tax
assets.

Cintas is periodically reviewed by domestic and foreign tax authorities
regarding the amount of taxes due.  These
reviews include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the
allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions.  In evaluating the exposure associated with
various filing positions, Cintas records reserves for probable exposures.  Based on Cintas’ evaluation of current tax
positions, Cintas believes it has appropriately accrued for probable exposures.

OUTLOOK

As we look forward to fiscal 2006, our outlook remains positive, but
guarded.  As the economy has strengthened
and employment rates have improved, our internal growth rates have also
continued to improve.  Based on our
marketing data, we have a relatively low 7% market share of a $42.5 billion
estimated potential market.  As such, we
see upside potential for all of our business units.  Although difficult to predict, we anticipate
continued growth in all of our business units. 
Overall performance will be largely driven by external market
conditions.

In the marketplace, competition and related pricing pressure will
continue; however, we believe cost containment initiatives, technological
advances and continued leverage of our infrastructure will soften or offset any
impact.

When appropriate opportunities arise, we will supplement our internal
growth with strategic acquisitions.

Like most other companies, we experienced, and anticipate continuing to
experience, increased costs for wages and benefits, including medical
benefits.  Changes in oil and fuel costs
and changes in federal and state tax laws also have the potential to impact our
results.

Cintas continues to be the target of a corporate unionization campaign
by UNITE HERE and the Teamsters unions. 
These unions are attempting to pressure Cintas into surrendering our
employees’ rights to a government-supervised election and unilaterally accept
union representation.  This is
unacceptable.  Cintas’ philosophy in
regard to unions is straightforward:  We
believe that employees have the right to say yes to union representation and
the freedom to say no.  This campaign
could be materially disruptive to our business and could materially adversely
affect results of operations.  We will
continue to vigorously oppose this campaign and to defend our employees’
rights.

We believe that the high level of customer service provided by our
partners and supported by our infrastructure, quality products, financial
resources and corporate culture will provide for continued business
success.  However, a number of factors
influence future revenue, margins and profit which make forecasting difficult.


ITEM
7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE

ABOUT MARKET RISK

Cintas manages interest rate risk by using a combination of variable
and fixed rate debt, marketable securities and interest rate swap
agreements.  Earnings are affected by
changes in short-term interest rates due to the use of variable rate notes and
revolving credit facilities amounting to approximately $230 million, with an
average interest rate of 4.6%.  This
exposure is limited by the purchase of marketable securities and interest rate
swap agreements as a hedge against variability in short-term rates.  If short-term rates change by one-half
percent (or 50 basis points), Cintas’ income before taxes would change by
approximately $1 million.  This estimated
exposure considers the mitigating effects of marketable securities and swap
agreements on the change in the cost of variable rate debt.  This analysis does not consider the effects
of a change in economic activity or a change in Cintas’ capital structure.

Through its foreign operations, Cintas is exposed to foreign currency
risk.  Foreign currency exposures arise
from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency
and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S.
dollars.  The primary foreign currency to
which Cintas is exposed is the Canadian dollar. 
Cintas does not currently use forward exchange contracts to limit
potential losses in earnings or cash flows from foreign currency exchange rate
movements.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements


Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting

To the Shareholders of Cintas Corporation:

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  Accordingly, even an effective system of
internal control over financial reporting will provide only reasonable
assurance with respect to financial statement preparation.

With the supervision of our President and Chief Executive Officer and
our Chief Financial Officer, management assessed our internal control over
financial reporting as of May 31, 2005. Management based its assessment on
criteria established in

Internal Control -
Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Management’s assessment included evaluation
of such elements as the design and operating effectiveness of key financial
reporting controls, process documentation, accounting policies and our overall
control environment. This assessment is supported by testing and monitoring
performed by our internal audit function.

Based on our assessment, management has concluded that our internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of May 31, 2005, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

We reviewed the results of management’s assessment with the Audit
Committee of our Board of Directors. Additionally, our independent registered
public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, audited management’s assessment
and independently assessed the effectiveness of Cintas’ internal control over
financial reporting. Ernst & Young has issued an attestation report, which
is included in this Annual Report.


Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Cintas Corporation:

We have audited
management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Controls over Financial Reporting, that Cintas Corporation maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2005, based
on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO
criteria). Cintas Corporation’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assessment and an
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that Cintas Corporation
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of May 31,
2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO
criteria.  Also, in our opinion, Cintas
Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of May 31, 2005, based on

the COSO criteria

.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance
sheets of Cintas Corporation as of May 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2005 of Cintas Corporation, and
our report dated July 22, 2005, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Cincinnati, Ohio

July 22, 2005


Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Cintas Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Cintas Corporation as of May 31, 2005 and 2004,
and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2005. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States).  Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Cintas Corporation at May 31, 2005 and 2004,
and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended May 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Cintas
Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2005,
based on criteria established in

Internal
Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated July 22, 2005,
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Cincinnati, Ohio

July 22, 2005


CINTAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

Years Ended May 31

(In thousands except per share data)

See accompanying notes.


CINTAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

As of May 31

(In thousands except share data)

See accompanying notes.


CINTAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’
EQUITY

(In thousands)

See accompanying notes.


CINTAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Years Ended May 31

(In thousands)

See accompanying notes.


CINTAS CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Amounts in thousands except per share and
share data)

1.

SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Business description.

Cintas Corporation (Cintas) provides highly
specialized services to businesses of all types throughout North America.  Cintas designs, manufactures and implements
corporate identity uniform programs, provides entrance mats, shop towels,
restroom supplies, promotional products, first aid, safety and fire protection
products and services and document management services for over 700,000
businesses.

Cintas classifies its businesses into two operating segments: Rentals
and Other Services.  The Rentals
operating segment designs and manufactures corporate identity uniforms, which
it rents to its customers.  Other items,
including entrance mats, shop towels and restroom supplies, are also rented or
sold to its customers.  The Other
Services operating segment involves the design, manufacture and direct sale of
uniforms to customers, as well as the sale of ancillary products and
services.  These ancillary products and
services include first aid, safety and fire protection products and services,
document management services and cleanroom supplies.  These services are provided throughout the
United States and Canada to businesses of all types - from small service
manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ thousands of people.

Principles of consolidation.

The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Cintas and its subsidiaries. 
Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.

Use of estimates.

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported
in the financial statements and accompanying notes.  Financial results could differ from those
estimates.

Revenue recognition.

Rental revenue is recognized when services
are performed and other services revenue is recognized either when services are
performed or when products are shipped and the title and risks of ownership
pass to the customer.  Cintas also
establishes an estimate of allowances for uncollectible accounts when revenue
is recorded.

Cost of rentals.

Cost of rentals consists primarily of
production expenses, delivery expenses and the amortization of in service
inventory, including uniforms, mats, shop towels and other rental items.  The Rentals segment inbound freight charges,
purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs and other
costs of distribution are included in the cost of rentals.

Cost of other services.

Cost of other services consists primarily of
cost of goods sold (predominantly uniforms and first aid products), delivery expenses
and distribution expenses.  The Other
Services segment inbound freight charges, purchasing and receiving costs,
inspection costs, warehousing costs and other costs of distribution are
included in the cost of other services.

Selling and administrative expense.

Selling and administrative expense consists
primarily of sales labor and commissions, management labor, payroll taxes,
medical expense, insurance expense, legal costs and amortization of
intangibles.

Cash and cash equivalents.

Cintas considers all highly liquid
investments with a maturity of three months or less, at date of purchase, to be
cash equivalents.

Marketable securities.

All marketable securities are comprised of
debt securities and classified as available-for-sale.  The majority of these debt securities are
obligations of state and political subdivisions.

Accounts receivable.

Accounts receivable are comprised of amounts
owed through product shipments and are presented net of an allowance for
uncollectible accounts.  This allowance
is an estimate based on historical rates of collectibility.  An uncollectible accounts provision is
recorded for overdue amounts, beginning with a nominal percentage and
increasing substantially as the account ages. 
The amount provided as the account ages will differ slightly between the
Rentals and Other Services segments because of differences in customers served
and the nature of each business segment. When an account is considered
uncollectible, it is written off against this allowance.

Inventories.

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost
(first-in, first-out) or market. 
Substantially all inventories represent finished goods.

Uniforms and other rental items in service.

These items are valued at cost less
amortization, calculated using the straight-line method.  Uniforms in service (other than cleanroom and
flame resistant garments) are amortized over their useful life


of

eighteen months.  Other rental items including shop towels,
mats, cleanroom garments, flame resistant garments, linens and restroom
dispensers are amortized over their useful lives of eight to forty-eight
months.

Property and equipment.

Depreciation is calculated using the
straight-line method primarily over the following estimated useful lives, in
years:

Long-lived assets.

When events or circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of long-lived assets may not be recoverable, the estimated
future cash flows (undiscounted) are compared to the carrying amount of the
assets.  If the estimated future cash
flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets, an impairment loss is
recorded.  The impairment loss is
measured by comparing the fair value of the assets with their carrying amounts.
Fair value is determined by discounted cash flows or appraised values, as
appropriate.  Long-lived assets that are
held for disposal are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or the fair
value, less estimated costs related to disposition.

Goodwill.

As required under Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 142 (SFAS 142),

Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets,

goodwill is separately disclosed from
other intangible assets on the balance sheet and no longer amortized, but is
tested for impairment on at least an annual basis.  Cintas completed an annual goodwill
impairment test for the years ended May 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, as
required by SFAS 142.  Based on the
results of the impairment tests, Cintas was not required to recognize an
impairment of goodwill in any of these years. 
Cintas will continue to perform future impairment tests as required by
SFAS 142 as of March 1 in future years, or when indicators of impairment
are noted.

Service contracts and other assets.

Service contracts and other assets, which
consist primarily of noncompete and consulting agreements obtained through
acquisitions of businesses, are amortized by use of the straight-line method over
the estimated lives of the agreements, which are generally five to ten years.

Accrued liabilities.

Accrued liabilities consist primarily of
insurance, medical and profit sharing obligations and legal and environmental
contingencies.  These are recorded when
it is probable that a liability has occurred and the amount of the liability
can be reasonably estimated.

Stock options.

Cintas applies the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (APB 25),

Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees.

Accordingly, no compensation expense has been reflected in the financial
statements as the exercise price of options granted to employees is equal to
the fair market value of Cintas’ common stock on the date of grant.  Cintas has adopted the disclosure-only
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (SFAS
123),

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.

In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148 (SFAS 148),

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition
and Disclosure.

This
Statement amends SFAS 123 to provide alternative methods of transition for a
voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock-based
employee compensation.  In addition, this
Statement amends the disclosures in both annual and interim financial
statements regarding the method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results.  Cintas continues to apply APB 25 for the
method used to account for stock-based employee compensation arrangements,
where applicable, but adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS 148 during
fiscal 2003.


For purposes of pro forma disclosure, the estimated fair value of
Cintas’ stock options is amortized to expense over the options’ vesting
period.  Pro forma results as if Cintas
accounted for its stock-based employee compensation using the fair value based
alternative appear below:

The effects of providing pro forma disclosure are not representative of
earnings to be reported for future years.

During fiscal 2005, Cintas vested certain employee stock options whose
exercise price was greater than current market value.  This vesting will have an impact on basic pro
forma and diluted pro forma earnings per share in future years.

Derivatives and hedging activities.

Derivatives and hedging activities are
presented in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133
(SFAS 133),

Accounting for Derivatives and
Hedging Activities,

as amended. 
This Standard requires the recognition of all derivatives on the balance
sheet at fair value and recognition of the resulting gains or losses as
adjustments to earnings or other comprehensive income.

Cintas formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments
and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for
undertaking various hedge transactions. 
Cintas’ hedging activities are transacted only with highly rated
institutions, reducing the exposure to credit risk in the event of
nonperformance.

From time to time, Cintas will use derivatives for both cash flow
hedging and fair value hedging purposes. 
For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure of variability in
short-term interest rates, designated as cash flow hedges, the effective
portion of the net gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a
component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the
same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects
earnings.  For the ineffective portion of
the hedge, gains or losses are charged to earnings in the current period.  For derivative instruments that hedge the
exposure to changes in the fair value of certain fixed rate debt, designated as
fair value hedges, the effective portion of the net gain or loss on the derivative
instrument, as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the fixed rate debt
attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in current period earnings.

Cintas uses interest rate swap and lock agreements, from time to time,
to hedge against variability in short-term interest rates.  These agreements effectively convert a
portion of the floating rate debt to a fixed rate basis, thus reducing the
impact of interest rate changes on future interest expense.  Cintas uses the Hypothetical Derivative
Method for assessing the effectiveness of these swaps.  The effectiveness of these swaps is reviewed
at least every fiscal quarter.  Cintas
also uses reverse interest rate swap agreements to convert a portion of fixed
rate debt to a floating rate basis, thus hedging for changes in the fair value
of the fixed rate debt being hedged. 
Cintas has determined that the interest rate swap agreements referenced
in Note 5, entitled Long-Term Debt, designated as fair value hedges, qualify
for treatment under the short-cut method of measuring effectiveness.  Under the provisions of SFAS 133, these
hedges are determined to be perfectly effective and there is no requirement to
periodically evaluate effectiveness.


Fair value of financial instruments.

The following methods and assumptions were
used by Cintas in estimating the fair value of financial instruments:

Cash and
cash equivalents

.  The amounts reported approximate market
value.

Marketable
securities.

The amounts reported are at cost, which approximates market value.  Market values are based on quoted market
prices.

Long-term
debt.

The amounts reported are at a carrying value which approximates market
value.  Market values are determined
using similar debt instruments currently available to Cintas that are consistent
with the terms, interest rates and maturities.

Reclassification.

Certain prior year amounts have been
reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

Other accounting pronouncements

.
On December 16, 2004, FASB issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004),

Share-Based Payment

, (Statement 123R), which is a revision
of SFAS 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

.
 Generally, the approach in Statement 123R is similar to the approach
described in SFAS 123.  However, Statement 123R requires all share-based
payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be
recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma
disclosure is no longer an alternative. The new standard will be effective for
public entities (excluding small business issuers) no later than the beginning
of the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. Cintas will adopt
this Statement no later than the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Cintas is in the
process of determining the impact that the adoption of this Statement will have
on its financial position and results of operations.

2.

MARKETABLE
SECURITIES

All marketable securities are comprised of debt securities and
classified as available-for-sale. 
Realized gains and losses and declines in value determined to be other
than temporary on available-for-sale securities are included in interest
income.  The cost of the securities sold
is based on the specific identification method. 
Interest on securities classified as available-for-sale is included in
interest income.

The following is a summary of marketable securities:

The gross realized gains on sales of available-for-sale securities
totaled $23, $19 and $105 for the years ended May 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
and the gross realized losses totaled $19, $0 and $10, respectively.  Net unrealized losses are $2,545 and $1,168
at May 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The cost and estimated fair value of debt securities at May 31,
2005, by contractual maturity, are shown below. 
Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because the
issuers of the securities may have the right to prepay the obligations without
prepayment penalties.


3.

PROPERTY
AND EQUIPMENT

4.

GOODWILL,
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND OTHER ASSETS

Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill and service contracts for
the years ended May 31, 2005 and 2004, by operating segment, are as
follows:

Information regarding Cintas’ service contracts and other assets
follows:


Amortization expense was $28,362, $25,974 and $27,741 for the years
ended May 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  Estimated amortization expense, excluding any
future acquisitions, for each of the next five years is $28,845, $27,001,
$24,582, $22,118 and $18,977, respectively.

5.

LONG-TERM
DEBT

Debt in the amount of $7,357 is secured by assets with a carrying value
of $8,475 at May 31, 2005.  Cintas
has letters of credit outstanding at May 31, 2005, approximating
$43,662.  Maturities of long-term debt
during each of the next five years are $7,300, $4,287, $228,959, $990 and $543,
respectively.

Interest expense is net of capitalized interest of $749, $521 and $186
for the years ended May 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  Interest paid, net of amount capitalized, was $23,163, $25,825 and $20,766 for the years ended May 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Cintas has a commercial paper program supported by a $300 million
long-term credit facility.  As of May 31,
2005, there is no commercial paper outstanding.

From time to time, Cintas uses interest rate swap and lock agreements
as hedges against variability in short-term interest rates.  These agreements effectively convert a
portion of floating rate debt to a fixed rate basis, thus reducing the impact
of interest rate changes on future interest expense.  Cintas uses the Hypothetical Derivative
Method for assessing the effectiveness of these swaps.  There were no interest rate swap agreements
outstanding as of May 31, 2005. 
When outstanding, the effectiveness of these swaps is reviewed at least
every fiscal quarter.  Cintas also uses
reverse interest rate swap agreements to convert a portion of fixed rate debt
to a floating rate basis, thus hedging for changes in the fair value of the
fixed rate debt being hedged.  These
agreements involve the receipt of fixed rate amounts in exchange for floating
rate interest payments over the life of the agreements without an exchange of
underlying principal amount.  The
mark-to-market values of both the fair value hedging instruments and the underlying
debt obligations are equal and recorded as offsetting gains and losses in
current period earnings.  Cintas has
determined that the current interest rate swap agreements, designated as fair
value hedges, qualify for treatment under the short-cut method of measuring
effectiveness.  Under the provisions of
SFAS 133, these hedges are determined to be perfectly effective and there is no
requirement to periodically evaluate effectiveness.

Cintas entered into two lock agreements as part of the Omni acquisition
in fiscal 2002.  The amortization of the
cash flow hedge, pertaining to these lock agreements, and the change in the
fair value of the cash flow hedge, pertaining to the interest rate swap
agreements, resulted in a credit to other comprehensive income of $290 and $669
for the years ended May 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  The reverse interest rate swap agreements are
fair value hedges that convert $225 million of fixed rate debt to a floating
rate.  These agreements expire in 2007
and allow Cintas to receive an effective


interest

rate of 5.13% and pay an interest
rate based on LIBOR.  Because these fair
value hedges are 100% effective, the net $4 million unfavorable change for
fiscal 2005 and the net $10 million unfavorable change for fiscal 2004 were
directly offset by a decrease in the fair value of the debt, reflecting
increased floating interest rates over the prior fiscal years.

Cintas has certain significant covenants related to debt agreements.  These covenants limit Cintas’ ability to
incur certain liens, to engage in sale-leaseback transactions and to merge,
consolidate or sell all or substantially all of Cintas’ assets.  These covenants also require Cintas to
maintain certain debt to capitalization and interest coverage ratios.  Cross default provisions exist between
certain debt instruments.  Cintas is in
compliance with all of the significant debt covenants for all periods
presented.  Were a default of a
significant covenant to occur, the default could result in an acceleration of
indebtedness, impair liquidity and limit the ability to raise future
capital.  Cintas’ debt, net of cash and
marketable securities, is $163 million. 
For fiscal 2005, net cash provided by operating activities was $414
million.  Capital expenditures were
approximately $141 million for the same period.

6.

LEASES

Cintas conducts certain operations from leased facilities and leases
certain equipment.  Most leases contain
renewal options for periods from one to ten years.  The lease agreements provide for increases in
rentals if the options are exercised based on increases in certain price level
factors or other prearranged factors. 
Step rent provisions, escalation clauses, capital improvements funding
and other lease concessions are taken into account in computing minimum lease
payments.  Minimum lease payments are
recognized on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease term.  Lease payments are not dependent on an
existing index or rate and are not included in minimum lease payments.  It is anticipated that expiring leases will
be renewed or replaced.

The minimum rental payments under noncancelable lease arrangements for
each of the next five years and thereafter are $18,572, $14,638, $11,181,
$7,412, $3,451 and $6,560, respectively. 
Rent expense under operating leases during the years ended May 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, was $25,280, $22,675 and $25,083, respectively.

7.

INCOME
TAXES


The components of deferred income taxes included on the balance sheets
are as follows:

Income taxes paid were $151,243, $118,125 and $139,794 for the years
ended May 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) created a temporary
incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned in
foreign jurisdictions by providing an 85% dividends-received deduction for
certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. Cintas has reviewed
this provision and determined that no foreign earnings will be repatriated
under the Act.

U.S. income taxes of $3,119, net of foreign tax credits, have not been
provided for on a cumulative total of approximately $70,323 of undistributed
earnings for certain non-U.S. subsidiaries as of May 31, 2005.  Cintas intends to reinvest these earnings
indefinitely in operations outside the United States.

8.

ACQUISITIONS

For all acquisitions accounted for as purchases, including
insignificant acquisitions, the purchase price paid for each has been allocated
to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  During fiscal 2005, Cintas acquired 10
Rentals businesses and 27 Other Services businesses.  During fiscal 2004, Cintas acquired 8 Rentals
businesses and 29 Other Services businesses. 
The following summarizes the aggregate purchase price for all businesses
acquired:

The results of operations for the acquired businesses are included in
the consolidated statements of income from the dates of acquisition.  The pro forma revenue, net income and
earnings per share information relating to acquired businesses are not
presented because they are not significant.

9.

DEFINED
CONTRIBUTION PLANS

Cintas’ Partners’ Plan is a non-contributory profit sharing plan and
ESOP for the benefit of substantially all U.S. Cintas employees who have
completed one year of service.  The plan
also includes a 401(k) savings feature covering substantially all
employees.  The amounts of contributions
to the profit sharing plan and ESOP, as well as the matching contribution to
the 401(k), are made at the discretion of Cintas.  Total contributions, including Cintas’
matching contributions, were $24,400, $22,160 and $20,100 for the years ended May 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Cintas also has a non-contributory deferred profit sharing plan (DPSP),
which covers substantially all Canadian employees.  In addition, a registered retirement savings
plan (RRSP) is offered to those employees. 
The amounts of contributions to the DPSP, as well as the matching
contribution to the RRSP, are made at the discretion of Cintas.  Total contributions were $897, $774 and $628
for the years ended May 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.


10.

EARNINGS
PER SHARE

Earnings per share are computed in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,

Earnings
per Share.

The basic
computations are computed based on the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during each period.  The
diluted computations reflect the potential dilution that could occur if stock
options were exercised into common stock, under certain circumstances, that
then would share in the earnings of Cintas.

The following table represents a reconciliation of the shares used to
calculate basic and diluted earnings per share for the respective years:

11.

STOCK
BASED COMPENSATION

Under the stock option plan adopted by Cintas in fiscal 2000, Cintas
may grant officers and key employees incentive stock
options and/or non-qualified stock options to purchase an aggregate of
9,000,000 shares of Cintas’ common stock. 
Options are granted at the fair market value of the underlying common
stock on the date of grant and generally vest and become exercisable at the
rate of 20% per year commencing five years after grant, so long as the holder
remains an employee of Cintas.

The information presented in the following table relates primarily to
stock options granted and outstanding under either the plan adopted in fiscal
2000 or under similar plans:


The following table summarizes the information related to stock options
outstanding at May 31, 2005:

At May 31, 2005, 4,441,875 shares of common stock are reserved for
future issuance under the 2000 plan.

Pro forma information regarding earnings and earnings per share is
required by SFAS 123 and has been determined as if Cintas had accounted for its
stock options granted subsequent to May 31, 1995, under the fair value
method of SFAS 123.  The weighted average
fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 was
$19.80, $18.43 and $19.43, respectively. 
The fair value of these options was estimated at the date of grant using
a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:

The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions
and are freely transferable.  In
addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective
assumptions including the expected stock price volatility.  Because Cintas’ options have characteristics
significantly different from those of traded options and because changes in the
subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in
Cintas’ opinion, existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single
measure of the fair value of its stock options.

During fiscal 2005, Cintas vested certain employee stock options whose
exercise price was greater than current market value.  This vesting will have an impact on basic pro
forma and diluted pro forma earnings per share in future years.

12.

LITIGATION
AND OTHER CONTINGENCIES

Cintas is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising from the
ordinary course of its business, including personal injury, customer contract,
environmental and employment claims.  In
the opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, with respect to
such ordinary course of business actions, will not
have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of
operations of Cintas.  Cintas is party to
additional litigation not considered in the ordinary course of business,
including the litigation discussed below.

Cintas is a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit,

Paul Veliz, et al., v. Cintas Corporation

, filed on March 19,
2003, in the United States District Court, Northern District of California,
Oakland Division, alleging that Cintas violated certain federal and state wage
and hour laws applicable to its service sales representatives, whom Cintas
considers exempt employees, and asserting additional related ERISA claims.  The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified
monetary damages, injunctive relief or both. 
Cintas denies these claims and is defending the plaintiffs’
allegations.  The court ordered
arbitration for all potential plaintiffs except for those that fall into one of
four narrowly defined exceptions.  As a
result, Cintas believes that a majority of the potential plaintiffs will be
required to arbitrate their claims.  No
determination has been made by the court or an arbitrator regarding class
certification.  There can be no assurance
as to whether a class will be certified or, if a class is certified, as to the
geographic or other scope of such class. 
If a court or arbitrator certifies a class in this action and there is
an adverse verdict on the merits, or in the event of a negotiated settlement of
the action, the resulting liability and/or any increased costs of operations on
an ongoing basis could be material to Cintas. 
Any estimated liability relating to this lawsuit is not determinable at
this time.


Cintas is also a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit,

Robert Ramirez, et al., v. Cintas Corporation

, filed on January 20,
2004, and pending in the United States District Court, Northern District of
California, San Francisco Division.  The case was brought on behalf of all past and
present female, African-American and Hispanic employees of Cintas and its
subsidiaries.  The complaint alleges that
Cintas has engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women
and minorities in recruitment, hiring, promotions, transfers, job assignments
and pay.  The complaint seeks injunctive
relief, compensatory damages, punitive damages and attorney’s fees, among other
things.  Cintas denies these claims and
is defending the plaintiffs’ allegations. 
The court ordered arbitration as to three of the ten named
plaintiffs.  On April 27, 2005, the
United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) filed a motion to
intervene in order to participate in this lawsuit.  No filings or determination has been made in
regard to the lawsuit as to class certification.  There can be no assurance as to whether a
class will be certified or, if a class is certified, as to the geographic or
other scope of such class.  Several
related proceedings with similar allegations and seeking similar relief damages
and fees are pending, including an EEOC charge filed on April 17, 2000, by
Mirna Serrano with the EEOC Detroit District office on behalf of female service
sales representative job applicants at all Cintas locations in Michigan, a
class action lawsuit,

Mirna E. Serrano, et al.,
v. Cintas Corporation

, filed on May 10, 2004, in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division
on behalf of the same female service sales representative job applicants in the
EEOC charge and an administrative action filed on December 15, 2004, by
James Morgan with the EEOC Washington, D.C. office and the California
Department of Fair Employment and Housing alleging racial discrimination in
compensation and training opportunities. 
In addition, a class action lawsuit,

Larry Houston, et al., v.
Cintas Corporation

, was filed on August 3, 2005, in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California on behalf of
African-American managers alleging racial discrimination.  If there is an adverse verdict or a
negotiated settlement of these actions, the resulting liability and/or any
increased costs of operations on an ongoing basis could be material to
Cintas.  Any estimated liability relating
to these proceedings is not determinable at this time.

Several other similar administrative proceedings are pending including:
(i) two charges filed on November 30, 2004, by an EEOC Commissioner
with the EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit alleging failure to hire and assign
females to production job positions, and failing to hire females, African-Americans
and Hispanics into the Management Trainee program, (ii) a charge filed on January 24,
2005, by Jennifer Fargo on behalf of herself and a similarly situated class
with the Augusta Human Relations Commission and the EEOC Detroit District
office alleging gender and equal pay discrimination against female sales representatives
and sales associates, (iii) a charge filed on March 23, 2005, by
Clifton Cooper on behalf of himself and a similarly situated class with the
EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit alleging discriminatory pay and treatment due to
race, (iv) a charge filed on March 28, 2005, by Lorelei Reynolds on
behalf of herself and a similarly situated class with the EEOC Birmingham
District alleging discriminatory pay and treatment due to race and gender, (v) a
charge filed on April 25, 2005, by Melissa Schulz on behalf of herself and
a similarly situated class with the EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit and the
Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries, Civil Rights Division alleging
discriminatory pay and treatment due to race and gender, (vi) a charge
filed on May 6, 2005, by Anthony Jones on behalf of himself and a
similarly situated class with the EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit alleging
discriminatory pay and treatment due to race and (vii) a charge filed on June 10,
2005, by Mattie Cooper on behalf of herself and a similarly situated class with
the EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit alleging discriminatory pay and treatment due
to race and gender.  The investigations
of these allegations are pending and no determinations have been made.

Cintas is also a defendant in a lawsuit,

J. Lester
Alexander, III vs. Cintas Corp., et al

., which was originally
filed on October 25, 2004, and is currently pending in the United States
Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Alabama, Eastern Division. 
The case was brought by J. Lester Alexander, III, the Chapter 7 Trustee
(the “Trustee”) of Terry Manufacturing Company, Inc. (“TMC”) and Terry
Uniform Company, LLC (“TUC”), against Cintas in Randolph County, Alabama. 
The Trustee seeks damages against Cintas for allegedly breaching fiduciary
duties to TMC and TUC and for allegedly aiding and abetting breaches of
fiduciary duties by others to those entities.  The complaint also includes
allegations that Cintas breached certain limited liability company agreements,
or alternatively, misrepresented their intention to perform their obligations
in those agreements and acted as alter egos of the bankrupt TMC and are
therefore liable for all of TMC’s debts.  The Trustee is seeking $50
million in compensatory damages and $100 million in punitive damages. 
Cintas denies these claims and is vigorously defending itself against all
claims in the complaint.  If there is an
adverse verdict on the merits or in the event of a negotiated settlement of
this lawsuit, the resulting liability could be material to Cintas.  Any
estimated liability relating to this lawsuit is not determinable at this time.

During fiscal 2001, the State of Connecticut filed suit against Cintas
in the Superior Court District of Hartford alleging various violations of state
environmental laws and alleging that Cintas violated certain wastewater
discharge and hazardous waste violations. 
While this proceeding is not considered material to the business or
financial condition of the registrant, management reasonably believes that the
proceedings will result in monetary sanctions in excess of $100 thousand.  A reserve has been established for the
estimated liability related to these allegations.

The litigation discussed above, if decided adversely to or settled by
Cintas, may, individually or in the aggregate, result
in liability material to Cintas’ financial condition or results of
operations.  Cintas may enter into discussions
regarding settlement of these and other lawsuits, and may enter into settlement
agreements if it believes such settlement is in the best interests of Cintas’
shareholders.


13.

SEGMENT
INFORMATION

Cintas classifies its businesses into two operating segments: Rentals
and Other Services.  The Rentals
operating segment designs and manufactures corporate identity uniforms which it
rents to its customers.  Other items,
including entrance mats, shop towels and restroom supplies, are also rented or
sold to its customers.  The Other
Services operating segment involves the design, manufacture and direct sale of
uniforms to customers, as well as the sale of ancillary products and
services.  These ancillary products and
services include first aid, safety and fire protection products and services,
document management services and cleanroom supplies.  These services are provided throughout the
United States and Canada to businesses of all types - from small service and
manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ thousands of people.

The $4,343 write-off of the loan receivable in the first quarter of
fiscal 2004 has been included in the Corporate
segment.

Information as to the operations of Cintas’ different business segments
is set forth below based on the distribution of products and services
offered.  Cintas evaluates performances
based on several factors of which the primary financial measures are business segment
revenue and income before income taxes. 
The accounting policies of the business segments are the same as those
described in Note 1 entitled Significant Accounting Policies.


14.

SUBSEQUENT
EVENTS

Subsequent to May 31, 2005, Cintas purchased approximately 2.4
million additional shares of Cintas stock at an average price of $39.08 per
share for a total purchase price of approximately $96 million.  As such, from the inception of the stock
repurchase program through July 22, 2005, Cintas has purchased
approximately 3.9 million shares of Cintas stock at an average price of $39.27
per share for a total purchase price of approximately $154 million.  The Board did not specify an expiration date
for this program.

Also subsequent to May 31, 2005, Cintas borrowed $64 million under
the $300 million commercial paper program for short-term cash requirements.  This financing decision was made in order to
allow certain marketable securities to reach maturity rather than Cintas
incurring a penalty for early redemption.

15.

QUARTERLY
FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

The following is a summary of the results of operations for each of the
quarters within the years ended May 31, 2005 and 2004:

16.

SUPPLEMENTAL
GUARANTOR INFORMATION

Effective June 1, 2000, Cintas reorganized its legal structure and
created Cintas Corporation No. 2 (Corp. 2) as its
indirectly, wholly-owned principal operating subsidiary.  Cintas and its
wholly-owned, direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries, other than Corp. 2,
unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, debt of Corp. 2.

On May 13, 2002, Cintas completed the acquisition of Omni Services, Inc.
(Omni).  A portion of the purchase price
for Omni was funded with $450,000 in long-term notes.  Corp. 2 was the issuer of the long-term
notes, which are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by Cintas
Corporation and the subsidiary guarantors.

As allowed by SEC rules, the following condensed consolidating
financial statements are provided as an alternative to filing separate
financial statements of the guarantors. 
Each of the subsidiaries presented in the condensed financial statements
has been fully consolidated in Cintas’ financial statements.  The condensed consolidating financial
statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements of
Cintas and notes thereto of which this note is an integral part.

Condensed consolidating financial statements for Cintas, Corp. 2, the
subsidiary guarantors and non-guarantors are presented below:


CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING INCOME STATEMENT

YEAR ENDED MAY 31, 2005


CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING INCOME STATEMENT

YEAR ENDED MAY 31, 2004


CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING INCOME STATEMENT

YEAR ENDED MAY 31, 2003


CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET

AS OF MAY 31, 2005


CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET

AS OF MAY 31, 2004


CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH
FLOWS

YEAR ENDED MAY 31, 2005


CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH
FLOWS

YEAR ENDED MAY 31, 2004


CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH
FLOWS

YEAR ENDED MAY 31, 2003


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS

ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Nothing to report.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

With the participation of Cintas’ management, including Cintas’ Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President, General Counsel and
Controllers, Cintas has evaluated the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in

Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934) as of May 31, 2005.  Based
on such evaluation, Cintas’ management, including Cintas’ Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President, General Counsel and Controllers,
have concluded that Cintas’ disclosure controls and procedures were effective
in ensuring (i) information required to be disclosed by Cintas in
the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the
SEC’s rules and forms and (ii) information required to be disclosed
by Cintas in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
accumulated and communicated to Cintas’ management, including its principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar
functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in Cintas’ internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Exchange Act) during the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2005, that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting. See “Management’s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting” and “Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm” in Item 8 preceding Cintas’ financial statements.

ITEM 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION

On May 2, 2005, Cintas announced that the
Board of Directors authorized a $500 million stock repurchase program at market
prices.  Pursuant to that authorization,
on August 12, 2005, as part of this share repurchase program, the
registrant entered into a Rule 10B5-1 trading plan for the period beginning
August 15, 2005 through September 23, 2005, unless earlier
terminated.

PART III

Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III are incorporated by
reference to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement for its 2005 Annual Shareholders’
Meeting to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.

PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES

(a) (1) Financial Statements. 
All financial statements required to be filed by Item 8 of this Form and
included in this report are listed in Item 8. 
No additional financial statements are filed because the requirements
for paragraph (d) under Item 14 are not applicable to Cintas.

(a) (2) Financial Statement
Schedule:

For each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2005.

Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves.

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not
required, or because the required information is included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements or Notes thereto.

(a) (3) Exhibits.



* Management Compensatory
  Contracts

Incorporated by reference to:

(1)

Cintas’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 1989.

(2)

Cintas’ 1994 Proxy Statement.

(3)

Cintas’ Registration Statement No. 33-23228 on Form
S-8 filed under the Securities Act of 1933.

(4)

Cintas’ Registration Statement No. 33-56623 on Form
S-8 filed under the Securities Act of 1933.

(5)

Cintas’ Proxy Statement for its 1994 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting.

(6)

the Unitog Company’s Form 8-K dated January 9, 1999.

(7)

Cintas’ Form 8-K dated March 24, 1999.

(8)

the Unitog Company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 26, 1992.

(9)

the Unitog Company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 1994.

(10)

the Unitog Company’s 1997 Proxy Statement.


(11)

Cintas’ Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 30, 2000.

(12)

Cintas’ Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 30, 2001.

(13)

Cintas’ Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2002.

(14)

Cintas’ Form 8-K dated May 13, 2002.

(15)

Cintas’ Form 10-K dated May 31, 2002.

(16)

Cintas’ Form 10-K dated May 31, 2004.

(17)

Cintas’ Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2005.

(b)

A Form 8-K was filed on May 13, 2002 to report the acquisition of the
stock of Omni Services, Inc.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.


CINTAS CORPORATION

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying
Accounts and Reserves

(In Thousands)

(1)

Represents
amounts charged to expense to increase reserve for estimated future bad debts
or to increase reserve for obsolete inventory.  Amounts related to inventory are computed by
performing a thorough analysis of future marketability by specific inventory
item.

(2)

Represents a
change in the appropriate balance sheet reserve due to acquisitions during the
respective period.

(3)

Represents
reductions in the balance sheet reserve due to the actual write-off of
non-collectible accounts receivable or the physical disposal of obsolete
inventory items.  These amounts do not
impact Cintas’ income statement.

56