
10-K
FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

           ( X ) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996

          ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
       For the transition period from ________________ to ________________
                          Commission File Number 1-7349
                                Ball Corporation
                           State of Indiana 35-0160610

                      345 South High Street, P.O. Box 2407
                           Muncie, Indiana 47307-0407
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (765) 747-6100
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                            Name of each exchange
      Title of each class                    on which registered
  ----------------------------          ------------------------------
  Common Stock, without par value        New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                          Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                             Pacific Exchange, Inc.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES [ X ] NO [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The  aggregate  market  value of  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
registrant  was $755.2  million based upon the closing  market price on March 3,
1997  (excluding  Series B ESOP  Convertible  Preferred Stock of the registrant,
which  series is not  publicly  traded  and which has an  aggregate  liquidation
preference of $61.7 million).

Number of shares outstanding as of the latest practicable date.

                Class                         Outstanding at March 3, 1997
 ----------------------------------           ----------------------------
   Common Stock, without par value                      30,547,685


                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.  Annual Report to  Shareholders  for the year ended December 31, 1996, to the
    extent  indicated  in  Parts  I,  II,  and  IV.  Except  as  to  information
    specifically incorporated,  the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders is not to
    be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K Annual Report.

2. Proxy statement filed with the Commission dated March 17, 1997, to the extent
   indicated in Part III.


                                                  PART I

Item 1.    Business

Ball Corporation is an Indiana corporation organized in 1880 and incorporated in
1922.  Its  principal  executive  offices are located at 345 South High  Street,
Muncie,  Indiana  47305-2326.  The terms "Ball" and the "Company" as used herein
refer to Ball Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Ball is a manufacturer of metal and plastic  packaging,  primarily for beverages
and foods,  and a supplier of aerospace and other  technologies  and services to
commercial and governmental customers.

The  following  sections  of the 1996  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders  contain
financial and other  information  concerning  Company business  developments and
operations, and are incorporated herein by reference: the notes to the financial
statements   "Discontinued    Operations,"   "Business   Segment   Information,"
"Dispositions and Other," "1997  Acquisition," and "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

                          Recent Business Developments

The Company  took a number of actions  during 1996 which have  affected the core
business.  The most  significant of these actions are summarized  briefly below.
Further  information  regarding  these  actions  are  found in the  notes to the
financial    statements    "Discontinued    Operations,"   "1997   Acquisition,"
"Dispositions and Other" and "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition  and  Results of  Operations"  all within  the 1996  Annual  Report to
Shareholders.

Ball-Foster Glass Container Co., L.L.C.
The Company sold its 42 percent  interest in  Ball-Foster  Glass  Container Co.,
L.L.C.  (Ball-Foster)  in 1996.  Ball-Foster  was  formed in 1995 from the glass
businesses  acquired  from  Ball  and  Foster-Forbes.   As  a  result  of  these
transactions,  the Company no longer  participates in the manufacture or sale of
glass containers.

Plastic Packaging
In  1994  the  Company  announced  that it  would  enter  the PET  (polyethylene
terephthalate)  plastic  container  market. By year end 1996, in addition to the
pilot line and research and development  center  completed in 1995, three plants
were  operational  and  two  additional   facilities  were  under  construction.
Consolidated  results  include  losses  from this  start-up  operation  of $17.4
million and $7.8 million for 1996 and 1995, respectively.



FTB Packaging
Through a series of  investments,  Ball  increased  its equity  ownership in FTB
Packaging,   Limited  (FTB  Packaging),  its  Hong  Kong-based  metal  packaging
subsidiary, to approximately 95 percent by year end 1996. FTB Packaging has been
included on a consolidated  basis within the packaging segment effective January
1995. Further expansion of the Company's  investments into the People's Republic
of China  (PRC)  has been  effected  through  FTB  Packaging  and  includes  the
construction  of two  metal  beverage  container  facilities  and a  metal  food
container  facility and the 1997  acquisition of a controlling  interest in M.C.
Packaging (Hong Kong) Limited (M.C. Packaging).

EarthWatch
In  1994  the  Company  and  WorldView,  Inc.  formed  what  is  now  EarthWatch
Incorporated  (EarthWatch) to commercialize certain proprietary  technologies by
serving the market for satellite-based remote sensing of the Earth.  The Company
invested  approximately  $21 million in  EarthWatch  through  December 31, 1995.
EarthWatch has experienced  extended product  development and deployment  delays
and is expected to incur significant product development losses into the future,
exceeding Ball's  investment.  Ball has no commitments to provide further equity
or debt  financing  to  EarthWatch  beyond its  investment  to date.  EarthWatch
indicates  that it will seek further  significant  development  stage  financing
during 1997.  Although Ball is currently a 49 percent equity owner of EarthWatch
and has  contracted  to design,  and may elect to produce,  satellites  for that
company in the  future,  the  remaining  carrying  value of the  investment  was
written off. 

Other
Within the Company's North American metal packaging business over the last three
years,  operations were  consolidated to reduce costs by closing or selling five
food  container  manufacturing  and related  facilities,  writing  down  certain
non-productive   equipment  to  net  realizable  value  and   discontinuing  the
manufacture of metal beverage containers at one facility in Canada. In addition,
the Company sold its  U.S. aerosol can manufacturing business during the  fourth
quarter of 1996.

           Other Information Pertaining to the Business of the Company

The Company's continuing  businesses are  comprised of two segments:  packaging,
and aerospace and technologies.

Packaging Segment

Ball's  principal  business is the  development,  manufacture  and sale of rigid
packaging products, containers and materials primarily for use in packaging food
and beverage  products and is reported within the packaging  segment.  Packaging
products  are sold in  highly  competitive  markets,  primarily  based on price,
service, quality and performance.  The majority of the Company's packaging sales
are made directly to a relatively  few major  companies  having  leading  market
positions  in packaged  food and beverage  businesses.  Ball  believes  that its
competitors exhibit similar customer concentrations.

The  rigid  packaging  business  is  capital  intensive,  requiring  significant
investments in machinery and equipment. Profitability is sensitive to production
volumes, the costs of certain significant raw materials, such as aluminum, steel
and plastic resin, and labor.

Raw materials used by the Company's packaging businesses are generally available
from several sources. Ball has secured what it considers to be adequate supplies
of  raw  materials  and  is  not  experiencing   any  shortage.   The  Company's
manufacturing   facilities  are  dependent,   in  varying   degrees,   upon  the
availability  of process  energy,  such as natural  gas and  electricity.  While
certain of these energy  sources may become  increasingly  in short  supply,  or
subject to government allocation or excise taxes, the Company cannot predict the
effects, if any, of such occurrences on its future operations.

Research and development  efforts in these businesses  generally seek to improve
manufacturing efficiencies and lower unit costs, principally raw material costs,
by reducing the material  content of containers  while  improving or maintaining
other physical properties such as material strength.  In addition,  research and
development  efforts are directed towards the development of new sizes and types
of both metal and plastic  beverage  containers such as the patented Touch TopTM
metal beverage  container  easy-open  end. In addition,  Ball is focusing on the
further development of heat-set technology for plastic containers.

The operations and products within this segment are discussed below:

Metal Packaging

Metal packaging is comprised primarily of two product lines:  two-piece beverage
containers  and  two  and  three-piece  food  containers.   Dominance  of  these
containers  in both the food  and  beverage  markets  and high  recycling  rates
contribute to the metal container's  significant market share. However,  plastic
containers,  primarily  PET,  have made  recent  gains  against  metal  beverage
containers in the soft drink market.  Current industry  forecasts  indicate that
this growth will  continue  such that PET  containers'  market share of packaged
soft drinks may exceed metal beverage containers by the year 2000.

North American Metal Beverage Containers

Metal  beverage  containers  and ends  represent  Ball's  largest  product line,
accounting  for  approximately  54  percent  of  1996  consolidated  net  sales.
Decorated  two-piece aluminum beverage cans are produced by seven  manufacturing
facilities in the U.S. and two  facilities in Canada;  ends are produced  within
two of the U.S. facilities.

Metal  beverage  containers  are  sold  primarily  to  brewers  and  fillers  of
carbonated  soft drinks and other  beverages  under  long-term  supply or annual
contracts.  Sales to the Company's largest customer,  Anheuser-Busch  Companies,
Inc.,  accounted  for  approximately  11 percent  of  consolidated  1996  sales.
Combined  North  American metal beverage sales to all bottlers of Pepsi-Cola and
Coca-Cola branded beverages  comprised  approximately 34 percent of consolidated
1996 sales.  Sales  volume of metal  beverage  cans and ends tends to be highest
during the period between April and September.



The  Company  estimates  that 17 percent  of the total  aluminum  beverage  cans
shipped  in the U.S.  and  Canada  in 1996 were  shipped  by Ball.  The  Company
estimates that its four larger competitors  together represent  approximately 80
percent of estimated 1996 total industry shipments for the U.S. and Canada.

The U.S. metal beverage  container industry had experienced steady demand growth
at a compounded  annual rate of approximately  2.9 percent over the last decade,
with much of that  growth in the soft drink  market  segment.  However,  in 1995
aluminum suppliers changed the pricing formula for aluminum can sheet to a price
based on ingot plus  conversion  costs,  in  contrast  to the prior  practice of
annually  negotiated  prices.  As a  result,  the  cost of  aluminum  can  sheet
increased significantly and was reflected in higher beverage can selling prices.
It is believed that the soft drink industry responded by reducing its promotions
of products packaged in aluminum containers in 1995, and, coupled with increased
customer  purchases in the fourth quarter of 1994 in  anticipation of the higher
can prices,  resulted in lower can  shipments for the industry by an estimated 5
percent.  Shipments  to the  beer  industry  were  also  affected  by the  price
increase,  the  accelerated  shipments in 1994, and the predominant use of glass
containers for introduction of new products.   In 1996,  industry-wide shipments
increased approximately one percent.

In  Canada,   metal  beverage  containers  have  captured   significantly  lower
percentages of the packaged  beverage  market than in the U.S.,  particularly in
the packaged beer market, in which the market share of metal containers has been
hindered by trade barriers and restrictive taxes within Canada.

Beverage  container  industry  production  capacity  in the U.S.  and Canada has
exceeded  demand in the last  several  years,  which has  created a  competitive
pricing  environment.  While higher aluminum can sheet costs were largely passed
through to customers via higher container pricing,  it appears that pricing will
continue to be a major competitive factor.

North American Metal Food Containers

Two-piece and three-piece steel food containers are manufactured in the U.S. and
Canada and sold primarily to food processors in the Midwestern United States and
Canada. In 1996 metal food container sales comprised approximately 23 percent of
consolidated  net  sales.  Sales  volume of metal  food  containers  tends to be
highest from June through October as a result of seasonal vegetable packs.

Recent consolidations within the commercial food container industry have reduced
the number of competitors.  Currently, Ball has one principal competitor located
in Canada and two primary  competitors  located in the U.S. metal food container
market.  Approximately  33 billion  steel food cans are shipped in the U.S.  and
Canada each year, more than 4.5 billion, or approximately 14 percent, by Ball in
1996.



In  the  food  container  industry,  manufacturing  capacity  in  North  America
significantly  exceeds  market demand,  resulting in a highly  price-competitive
market. During 1996, Ball completed the closure of three facilities,  a facility
in Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania, which provided metal coating and slitting services
to the metal food and specialty products businesses,  and food can manufacturing
facilities in Columbus, Indiana and Red Deer, Alberta, Canada.

International

The Company, through its majority-owned  subsidiary FTB Packaging, and including
the  controlling  interest  in  M.C.  Packaging,  is the  largest  beverage  can
manufacturer  in the PRC,  supplying more than half of the beverage cans used in
China.  The  Beijing  manufacturing  facility,  which is  majority  owned by FTB
Packaging,  is the  most  technologically  advanced  plant  in the PRC  with the
fastest line-speed  capacity.  The Company's joint venture Sanshui Jianlibao FTB
Packaging Ltd. (Sanshui) is the largest can manufacturing facility in the PRC in
terms of  production  capacity.  Capacity  within  the PRC has been  growing  at
greater than 20 percent annually.  However, as per capita consumption in the PRC
is significantly lower than in more developed countries and per capita income in
China is  rising,  there is  significant  potential  for strong  demand  growth.

Metal   beverage   containers   are   produced  in  China  by  FTB   Packaging's
majority-owned subsidiaries in Xian and Zhuhai; ends are produced at both Zhuhai
and Sanshui. Two new beverage container facilities in Beijing and Wuhan in which
FTB  Packaging is the majority  owner became  operational  . In addition,  a new
joint venture company  majority-owned  by FTB Packaging,  Ningbo FTB Can Company
Ltd., began trial production of three-piece food cans during 1996.

As part of Ball's  initiative to expand its presence  internationally,  in early
1997 the Company, through FTB Packaging, acquired a controlling interest in M.C.
Packaging. M.C. Packaging operates 13 ventures, with one wholly owned subsidiary
in  Hong  Kong,   eight   majority-owned   subsidiaries  in  the  PRC  and  four
minority-owned  ventures in the PRC. M.C.  Packaging produces two-piece aluminum
beverage  containers,  three-piece steel food containers,  aerosol cans, plastic
packaging, metal crowns and printed and coated metal.

The Company  provides  manufacturing  technology  and assistance to numerous can
manufacturers  around the world. The Company also has a minority equity position
in a new joint venture,  in which the Company  constructed  the first  two-piece
beverage  can  manufacturing  plant in the  Philippines.  In 1995,  the  Company
announced the formation of a new joint  venture with BBM  Participacoes  S.A. to
produce  two-piece  aluminum  cans  and  ends in  Brazil.  The  Company  and BBM
Participacoes  S.A.  each own 50 percent of this  venture.  In early  1996,  the
Company  announced  a joint  venture  with  Standard  Can  Company  of  Bangkok,
Thailand, to build a two-piece can and end plant in Thailand.  Ball and Standard
Can each own 40 percent; the remaining interest is held by local investors.  The
affiliate  in Brazil has a plant which  became  operational  in early 1997,  and
Ball's Thailand affiliate has a plant which expects to be operational during the
second quarter of 1997.

Plastic Packaging

PET packaging is Ball's newest business.  A full-scale pilot line,  research and
development center in Smyrna,  Georgia, was completed in 1995. During 1996 three
multi-line   production   plants  became   operational  in  Chino,   California;
Baldwinsville, New York; and Reading, Pennsylvania. A fourth facility began full
production in the first quarter of 1997 in Ames,  Iowa. A fifth plant in Delran,
New Jersey is under  construction  and is anticipated to begin operations in the
second half of 1997.

Demand for containers made of PET has increased in the beverage packaging market
and is  expected  to  increase  in  the  food  packaging  market  with  improved
technology  and  adequate  supplies  of PET resin.  While PET  plastic  beverage
containers compete against both metal and glass, the historical  increase in the
PET market share has come primarily at the expense of glass containers.  In 1994
the domestic plastic container market reached $5.5 billion,  surpassing the size
of the glass container market for the first time.  Projections for the year 2000
(based on  estimated  pounds of resin  used) range from an increase of almost 55
percent to 90 percent compared to 1996.

Competition  in this  industry  includes  two  national  suppliers  and  several
regional suppliers and self-manufacturers  (primarily Coca-Cola). Price, service
and quality  are  deciding  competitive  factors.  Increasingly,  the ability to
produce   customized,   differentiated   plastic   containers  is  an  important
competitive factor.

The demand for PET resins in North  America has exceeded  supply in the last few
years.  However,  the North  American PET resin market has recently  experienced
increased  production levels resulting in capacity  exceeding demand, a position
which is expected to remain in the near future.  As a result,  resin prices have
decreased  significantly since the beginning of 1996 which has been reflected in
lower sales, as lower resin prices are passed on to customers.

Ball has secured long-term customer supply agreements,  principally for beverage
containers.  Other products such as juice, water, liquor and food containers are
key elements in expanding the business.

Aerospace and Technologies Segment

The aerospace and technologies segment consists of two divisions:  the Aerospace
Systems Division,  and the  Telecommunication  Products  Division.  Sales in the
aerospace and  technologies  segment  accounted for  approximately 17 percent of
consolidated net sales in 1996.

The majority of the Company's  aerospace business involves work under relatively
short-term  contracts (generally one to five years) for the National Aeronautics
and Space  Administration  (NASA),  the U.S.  Department  of  Defense  (DoD) and
foreign  governments.  Contracts  funded by the various  agencies of the federal
government represented approximately 91 percent of this segment's sales in 1996.
Overall,  competition  within the  aerospace  business is expected to intensify.
While the government  budget for defense and NASA has exhibited a downward trend
in recent years,  management  believes the NASA budget has  stabilized  and that
within the Company's  niche markets  defense  spending will  increase.  With the
consolidation of the industry, competition for business will remain intense.

Aerospace Systems Division

A  full-service  aerospace  and  defense  organization,  the  Aerospace  Systems
Division  provides  hardware,  software and services to a wide range of U.S. and
international  customers,  with an emphasis on space  science,  environment  and
Earth sciences, defense, manned missions and exploration.

Space systems  include the design,  manufacture  and test of satellites,  ground
systems,  launch  vehicles  and  payloads  (including  integration  ) as well as
satellite ground station control hardware and software.  

Electro-optics  products  for  spacecraft  guidance,   control  instruments  and
sensors, and defense subsystems for surveillance, warning, target identification
and attitude control in military and civilian space applications  continue to be
a niche market for the division.

Primary  cryogenics  products include cryogenic systems for reactant storage and
sensor  cooling  devices  such  as  closed-cycle  mechanical  refrigerators  and
open-cycle solid and liquid cryogens.

The division has gained  prominence in the star  trackers  market as an industry
leader  in  general-purpose   stellar   attitude  sensors,  producing  a  unique
multi-mission,  man-rated  star  tracker  for the space  shuttle.  Fast-steering
mirrors provide precise stabilization and pointing of optical lines of sight and
offer  potential  commercial  applications  such as laser  surgery  and  optical
computing.

Additionally, this division provides diversified technical services and products
to federal and local  government  agencies,  prime  contractors  and  commercial
organizations  for a broad range of  information  warfare,  electronic  warfare,
avionics,  intelligence,  training and space systems problems. These same skills
developed  for  defense  and  aerospace   programs  are  now  being  applied  to
transportation and environmental markets.

Among the 1996  highlights  was the delivery of the Ball-built  Space  Telescope
Imaging Spectrograph and Near-infrared Camera and Multi-object  Spectrometer for
the Hubble Space Telescope's  second servicing  mission's  February 1997 launch.
Work progressed on the GEOSAT Follow-on  operational  radar altimeter  satellite
for its 1997  launch.  The  division  was also  awarded a contract to design and
develop the cryogenic  telescope  assembly for NASA's Space  Infrared  Telescope
Facility.  Other major contracts  include the Solar Array and Antenna  Mechanism
Lot 5, the Stratospheric  Aerosol and Gas Experiment and the Advanced Camera for
Surveys.

Telecommunication Products Division

This  division  develops  and  manufactures  antenna,  communication  and  video
products and systems for space,  aeronautical,  land and marine applications for
military and specialized civil markets.

Among the 1996  milestones  was the unveiling of a new product line of color and
monochrome cameras for inflight safety, security and entertainment  applications
aboard air transport, general aviation and military aircraft. A 10-year contract
with the Boeing  Commercial  Airplane Group to outfit the 777-300's with cameras
to provide  pilots with views of the  aircraft's  main and nose landing gear was
also signed,  making the cameras standard  equipment  aboard every 777-300.  The
Telecommunication  Products  Division also supplied  commercial secure satellite
communication  systems for Air Force One, the aircraft  used by the President of
the United States.

Backlog

Backlog of the aerospace and technologies segment was approximately $337 million
at December 31, 1996, and $420 million at December 31, 1995, and consists of the
aggregate contract value of firm orders excluding amounts previously  recognized
as revenue.  The 1996  backlog  includes  approximately  $260  million  which is
expected to be billed  during  1997,  with the  remainder  expected to be billed
thereafter.  Unfunded  amounts  included in backlog for certain firm  government
orders which are subject to annual  funding were  approximately  $192 million at
December  31,  1996.  Year-to-year  comparisons  of backlog are not  necessarily
indicative of the trend of future operations.

The Company's  aerospace and  technologies  segment has contracts  with the U.S.
Government which have standard  termination  provisions.  The Government retains
the right to terminate  contracts at its convenience.  However, if contracts are
terminated, Ball is entitled to be reimbursed for allowable costs and profits to
the date of termination relating to authorized work performed to such date. U.S.
Government  contracts are also subject to reduction or modification in the event
of changes in Government requirements or budgetary constraints.

                                     Patents

In the opinion of the  Company,  none of its active  patents is essential to the
successful operation of its business as a whole.

                            Research and Development

The note,  "Research and Development," of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders
contains  information  on  Company  research  and  development  activity  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                   Environment

Compliance  with  federal,  state and local laws  relating to  protection of the
environment  has not had a material,  adverse effect upon capital  expenditures,
earnings or competitive  position of the Company.  As more fully described under
Item 3, Legal Proceedings,  the U. S. Environmental  Protection Agency (EPA) and
various  state   environmental   agencies  have  designated  the  Company  as  a
potentially  responsible  party,  along with numerous other  companies,  for the
cleanup of several hazardous waste sites.  However, the Company's information at
this time does not indicate  that these  matters  will have a material,  adverse
effect upon financial condition, results of operations,  capital expenditures or
competitive position of the Company.

Legislation  which would  prohibit,  tax or restrict  the sale or use of certain
types of  containers,  and  would  require  diversion  of solid  wastes  such as
packaging materials from disposal in landfills, has been or may be introduced in
the U.S. Congress and the Canadian Parliament,  in state and Canadian provincial
legislatures and other legislative bodies. While container  legislation has been
adopted in a few jurisdictions,  similar legislation has been defeated in public
referenda in several  other  states,  in local  elections  and in many state and
local legislative sessions. The Company anticipates that continuing efforts will
be made to consider  and adopt such  legislation  in many  jurisdictions  in the
future. If such legislation was widely adopted, it could have a material adverse
effect on the business of the Company, as well as on the container manufacturing
industry  generally,  in view of the Company's  substantial North American sales
and investment in metal and PET container manufacture.



Aluminum,  steel and PET containers are recyclable,  and significant  amounts of
used  containers  are being  recycled and diverted  from the solid waste stream.
Using the most  recent  data  available,  in 1995  approximately  62  percent of
aluminum beverage containers sold in the U.S. were recycled. Steel can recycling
in 1995, the latest  information  available,  was  approximately 56 percent.  In
1995, the most recent data available,  approximately  41 percent of the PET soft
drink containers,  and  approximately 30 percent of all PET containers,  sold in
the U.S. were recycled.

                                    Employees

As of March 1997 Ball employed approximately 7,900 people.

Item 2.    Properties

The  Company's  properties  described  below  are  well  maintained,  considered
adequate and being utilized for their intended purposes.

The Corporate  headquarters and certain research and engineering  facilities are
located in Muncie, Indiana. The offices for metal packaging operations are based
in  Westminster,  Colorado.  Also located in  Westminster  is the Edmund F. Ball
Technical Center,  which serves as a research and development facility primarily
for the metal  packaging  operations.  The offices,  pilot line and research and
development  center for the plastic  container  business  are located in Smyrna,
Georgia.  Information  regarding  the  approximate  size  of  the  manufacturing
facilities for significant packaging operations, which are owned by the Company,
except  where  indicated  otherwise,  is  provided  below.  In  addition  to the
manufacturing facilities, Company leases warehousing space.

Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. offices are located in Broomfield, Colorado.
The Colorado-based operations of this business operate from a variety of Company
owned and leased  facilities in Boulder,  Broomfield and Westminster,  Colorado,
which  together  aggregate   approximately  1,000,000  square  feet  of  office,
laboratory,  research and development,  engineering and test, and  manufacturing
space,  including a leased  research and  development  facility  currently under
construction  in Broomfield.  Other  aerospace and  technologies  operations are
based in Dayton, Ohio; Warner Robins, Georgia; Albuquerque, New Mexico;  and San
Diego, California.



                                                 Approximate
                                                 Floor Space in
Plant Location                                   Square Feet

Metal packaging manufacturing facilities:
Blytheville, Arkansas (leased)                         8,000
Springdale, Arkansas                                 290,000
Richmond, British Columbia                           204,000
Fairfield, California                                148,000
Golden, Colorado                                     330,000
Tampa, Florida                                       139,000
Saratoga Springs, New York                           283,000
Columbus, Ohio                                       170,000
Findlay, Ohio                                        450,000
Burlington, Ontario                                  309,000
Hamilton, Ontario                                    347,000
Whitby, Ontario                                      195,000
Baie d'Urfe, Quebec                                  117,000
Chestnut Hill, Tennessee                              70,000
Conroe, Texas                                        284,000
Williamsburg, Virginia                               260,000
Weirton, West Virginia (leased)                      117,000
DeForest, Wisconsin                                   45,000

Plastic packaging manufacturing facilities:
Chino, California (leased)                           228,000
Ames, Iowa                                           250,000
Delran, New Jersey (leased)                          466,000
Baldwinsville, New York (leased)                     240,000
Reading, Pennsylvania (leased)                        69,000

In addition to the North American manufacturing  facilities,  Ball has ownership
interest in over 20  packaging  plants  located in the PRC,  Hong Kong,  Brazil,
Thailand, Taiwan and the Philippines.

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings

As  previously  reported,  the United  States  Environmental  Protection  Agency
("EPA") considers the Company to be a Potentially Responsible Party ("PRP") with
respect to the Lowry Landfill ("site") located east of Denver, Colorado. On June
12, 1992,  the Company was served with a lawsuit filed by the City and County of
Denver and Waste Management of Colorado,  Inc.,  seeking  contribution  from the
Company and  approximately  38 other  companies.  The  Company  filed its answer
denying  the  allegations  of the  Complaint.  On July 8, 1992,  the Company was
served with a third-party  complaint filed by S. W. Shattuck  Chemical  Company,
Inc.,  seeking  contribution  from the Company and other companies for the costs
associated  with  cleaning  up  the  Lowry  Landfill.  The  Company  denied  the
allegations of the complaint.

In March  1983,  the  Golden,  Colorado,  metal  container  plant of the Company
received a notice from the U.S. EPA, Region VIII, requesting any and all records
reflecting  whether or not the Company had ever disposed of hazardous  wastes in
Section 6 of the Lowry  Landfill in Denver,  Colorado.  In February 1985, it was
suggested that the Company was a PRP for cleanup.

In  July  1992,  the  Company  entered  into a  settlement  and  indemnification
agreement  with  the  City  and  County  of  Denver  (Denver),   Chemical  Waste
Management,  Inc.,  and Waste  Management of Colorado,  Inc.,  pursuant to which
Denver, Chemical Waste Management,  Inc., and Waste Management of Colorado, Inc.
(collectively  "Waste"),  dismissed  their lawsuit against the Company and Waste
agreed to defend,  indemnify  and hold  harmless  the  Company  from  claims and
lawsuits brought by governmental  agencies and other parties relating to actions
seeking  contributions or remedial costs from the Company for the cleanup of the
site.  Several other  companies  which are  defendants  in the  above-referenced
lawsuits had already entered into the settlement and  indemnification  agreement
with Denver and Waste.  Waste  Management,  Inc.,  has agreed to  guarantee  the
obligations  of  Chemical  Waste  Management,  Inc.,  and  Waste  Management  of
Colorado, Inc. Waste and Denver may seek additional payments from the Company if
the response  costs related to the site exceed $319  million.  The Company might
also be responsible for payments (calculated in 1992 dollars) for any additional
wastes which may have been  disposed of by the Company at the site but which are
identified after the execution of the settlement agreement.

At this  time,  there are no Lowry  Landfill  actions  in which the  Company  is
actively  involved.  Based on the  information  available  to the Company at the
present  time,  the Company  believes  that this matter will not have a material
adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company.

As previously  reported,  the EPA issued in August 1988, an administrative order
to 12  companies,  including  the  Company,  pursuant  to  Section  106A  of the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as
amended ("CERCLA"),  ordering them to remove certain abandoned drums and surface
waste at the AERR CO site located in Jefferson County,  Colorado. AERR CO, which
used the site to  recycle  wastes,  filed a  petition  with  the  United  States
Bankruptcy  Court in Denver,  Colorado,  seeking  protection from its creditors.
Several of the companies, including the Company, are subject to the EPA's order,
and have cleaned up the site. The companies  negotiated with the EPA with regard
to its demand for the payment of  oversight  costs.  The  companies  and the EPA
entered into a settlement  agreement on or about  January 24, 1994,  pursuant to
which this matter was settled by payment of $488,867.41  by the  companies.  The
Company's portion of this payment was $28,594.82.  The Company's  information at
this time does not  indicate  that this  matter  will have a  material,  adverse
effect upon its financial  condition.  The Company now believes that this matter
is closed.

As  previously  reported,  on or about August 28, 1990,  the Company  received a
notice from the Department of  Environmental  Resources,  State of  Pennsylvania
("DER"),  that the Company may have been  responsible  for disposing of waste at
the  Industrial  Solvents  and  Chemical  Company  site  located in York County,
Pennsylvania.  The Company is cooperating  with several  hundred other companies
and the DER to resolve this matter.  In December 1993 the Company entered into a
De Minimis Settlement  Agreement with certain other companies who have agreed to
indemnify the Company with respect to claims arising out of the alleged disposal
of hazardous waste at the site in  consideration of the Company paying an amount
not to exceed $11,031.70 to the indemnifying companies. The Company has paid the
indemnifying companies in accordance with their agreement.  The Company believes
this matter is now  concluded as to the Company.  The Company's  information  at
this time does not indicate that this matter will have a material adverse impact
on the financial condition of the Company.

As previously  reported,  the Company has been notified by Chrysler  Corporation
("Chrysler") that Chrysler,  Ford Motor Company,  and General Motors Corporation
have been named in a lawsuit filed in the U.S.  District Court in Reno,  Nevada,
by Jerome  Lemelson,  alleging  infringement  of three of his vision  inspection
system patents used by defendants.  One or more of the vision inspection systems
used by the defendants may have been supplied by the Company's former Industrial
Systems  Division  or its  predecessors.  The suit seeks  injunctive  relief and
unspecified  damages.  Chrysler  has  notified the Company that the Division may
have indemnification  responsibilities to Chrysler. The Company has responded to
Chrysler  that it appears at this time that the systems  sold to Chrysler by the
Company  either  were not  covered  by the  identified  patents  or were sold to
Chrysler before the patents were issued. On June 16, 1995, the Magistrate of the
U.S.  District  Court has  declared  the patents of Lemelson  are  unenforceable
because of the long delays in prosecution.  On April 11, 1996, the U.S. District
Court Judge adopted the report and recommendation of the U.S. Magistrate.  Based
on that information,  it is not expected that any obligation to Chrysler because
of the patents referred to will have a material, adverse effect on the financial
condition of the Company.

As  previously  reported,  in  September  1992 the  Company,  as a  fourth-party
defendant,  was  served  with a lawsuit  filed by AlliedSignal and certain other
fourth-party  plaintiffs  seeking  the  recovery of certain  response  costs and
contribution  under  CERCLA with  respect to the  alleged  disposal by its Metal
Decorating & Service  Division of hazardous  waste at the Cross Brothers Site in
Kankakee,  Illinois,  during the years 1961 to 1980. Also in September 1992, the
Company was sued by another defendant, Krueger Ringier, Inc. In October 1992 the
Illinois Environmental  Protection Agency filed an action to join the Company as
a  Defendant  seeking to recover the  State's  costs in removing  waste from the
Cross Brothers  Site.  The Company has denied the  allegations of the complaints
and will defend these matters, but is unable at this time to predict the outcome
of the  litigation.  The Company and certain other companies have entered into a
Consent  Decree with the EPA  pursuant to which the EPA  received  approximately
$2.9 million dollars and provided the companies with contribution protection and
a covenant not to sue.  Ball's share of the settlement  amount was  $858,493.60.
The  Company  has been  indemnified  for the  settlement  payment  by  Alltrista
Corporation  which  owns the  Metal  Decorating  & Service  Division.  The Court
approved  the Consent  Decree on April 28, 1994.  The Company and certain  other
companies  are  negotiating  with the State of  Illinois  to settle the  State's
alleged  claim to recover  costs  expended in the cleanup of the Cross  Brothers
Site.  Based upon the  information  available to the Company at this time,  this
matter is not  likely to have a  material,  adverse  effect  upon its  financial
condition.

On October 12, 1992,  the Company  received  notice that it may be a PRP for the
cleanup of the Aqua-Tech  Environmental  site located in Greer,  South Carolina.
Following negotiations between the Company and the PRPs and the EPA to establish
a de minimis buyout,  the Company entered into a de minimis  settlement with the
EPA in the fall of 1995,  wherein  the  Company  paid  $4,209.62  to the EPA and
$14,088.34 to the PRP Group. Based upon the information available to the Company
at this time,  the Company  believes  that this matter is now concluded and will
not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company.

As  previously  reported,  on April 24,  1992,  the Company was  notified by the
Muncie  Race Track  Steering  Committee  that the  Company,  through  its former
Consumer Products Division and former Zinc Products Division,  may be a PRP with
respect to waste  disposed  at the Muncie  Race Track Site  located in  Delaware
County,  Indiana.  The  Steering  Committee  requested  that the Company pay two
percent of the cleanup costs which are estimated at this time to be $10 million.
The  Company  declined to  participate  in the PRP group  because the  Company's
records do not indicate  the Company  contributed  hazardous  waste to the site.
Based upon the  information  available to the Company at this time,  the Company
does not believe that this matter will have a material,  adverse effect upon the
financial condition of the Company.

As previously reported,  the Company was notified on June 19, 1989, that the EPA
has designated the Company and numerous other companies as PRPs  responsible for
the cleanup of certain hazardous wastes that have been released at the Spectron,
Inc.,  site located in Elkton,  Maryland.  In December 1989, the Company,  along
with  other  companies  whose  alleged  hazardous  waste  contributions  to  the
Spectron, Inc., site were considered to be de minimis, entered into a settlement
agreement with the EPA for cleanup costs incurred in connection with the removal
action of  aboveground  site areas.  By a letter dated  September 29, 1995,  the
Company, along with the other above described PRPs, were notified by EPA that it
was negotiating with the large volume PRPs another consent order for performance
of  a  site  environmental   study  as  a  prerequisite  to  possible  long-term
remediation.  EPA and the large-volume PRPs have stated that a second de minimis
buyout for settlement of liability for performance of all environmental  studies
and site remediation is being formulated and an offer to participate therein has
been made to the Company. Certain other PRPs have agreed with the EPA to perform
a groundwater study of the site. The Company's information at this time does not
indicate  that  this  matter  will  have a  material,  adverse  effect  upon its
financial condition.

As previously  reported,  the Company has received  information that it has been
named a PRP with respect to the Solvents  Recovery Site located in  Southington,
Connecticut. According to the information received by the Company, it is alleged
that  the  Company  contributed   approximately  .08816  percent  of  the  waste
contributed  to the site on a volumetric  basis.  The Company is  attempting  to
identify additional information regarding this matter. The Company has responded
and has investigated the accuracy of the total volume alleged to be attributable
to the Company.  The Company joined the PRP group during 1993. In February 1995,
the Company  executed a trust agreement  whereby certain  contributions  will be
made to fund the  administration  of an ongoing  work group.  The group  members
finalized  an  Administrative  Order on Consent For Removal  Action and Remedial
Investigation/Feasibility Study on February 6, 1997, pursuant to which the group
members will perform a removal action and completion of a remedial investigation
and  feasibility  study in connection  with the site.  Based on the  information
available to the Company at this time, the Company now believes that this matter
will not have a  material,  adverse  effect on the  financial  condition  of the
Company.

As  previously  reported,  on or about  June  14,  1990,  the El Monte  plant of
Ball-InCon Glass Packaging Corp., a then wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,
(renamed Ball Glass  Container  Corporation  ("Ball Glass") on June 6, 1994, the
assets of which were  contributed  in September  1995 into a joint  venture with
Saint-Gobain,  now known as Ball-Foster Glass Container Co., L.L.C.,  and wholly
owned by Saint-Gobain),  received a general  notification letter and information
request from EPA,  Region IX,  notifying Ball Glass that it may have a potential
liability as defined in Section 107(a) of CERCLA with respect to the San Gabriel
Valley areas 1-4 Superfund sites located in Los Angeles County,  California. The
EPA requested certain information from Ball Glass, and Ball Glass responded. The
Company  received notice from the City of El Monte that,  pursuant to a proposed
city economic  redevelopment  plan,  the City  proposed to commence  groundwater
cleanup  by a pump and treat  remediation  process.  A PRP group  organized  and
drafted a PRP group agreement, which Ball Glass executed. The PRP group retained
an  environmental  engineering firm to critique the EPA studies and any proposed
remediation.

The PRP  group  completed  negotiations  with  the EPA  over  the  terms  of the
administrative  consent order,  statement of work for the remedial investigation
phase of the  cleanup,  and the interim  allocation  arrangement  between  group
members to fund the  remedial  investigation.  The interim  allocation  approach
would require that any payment will be based upon contribution to pollution. The
administrative  consent  order was  executed by the group and EPA.  The EPA also
accepted  the  statement  of work for the  remedial  investigation  phase of the
cleanup.  The group retained an  environmental  engineering  consulting  firm to
perform the remedial investigation. As required under the administrative consent
order,  the group submitted to the EPA all copies of all  environmental  studies
conducted at the plant,  the majority of which had already been furnished to the
State of California.  The EPA approved the work plan,  project  management plan,
and the data  management  plan  portions  of the PRP group's  proposed  remedial
investigation/feasibility  study ("RI/FS").  The group is currently  funding the
RI/FS.

Based on the  information  available  to the  Company at the present  time,  the
Company is unable to express an opinion as to the actual exposure of the Company
for this matter.  However,  Commercial  Union, the Company's  general  liability
insurer, is defending this governmental action and is paying the cost of defense
including attorneys' fees.

As previously  reported,  on July 27, 1994, Onex Corporation  ("Onex") initiated
arbitration  before the  International  Chamber of Commerce,  alleging  that the
Company was in breach of a joint  venture  agreement  dated  September 15, 1988.
Onex's  demand  represented a claim  against the Company for  approximately  $30
million.  The Company denied the allegations of Onex's  complaint.  On August 1,
1995,  the  Arbitral  Tribunal  decided  the case in favor of the  Company.  The
parties had previously  agreed to be bound by the decision of the Tribunal.  The
Company believes that this matter is now concluded.

As previously reported,  in March of 1992, William Hallahan,  an employee of the
Company's metal container plant in Saratoga Springs,  New York, filed a workers'
compensation  claim  alleging  that he suffers from a form of leukemia  that was
caused by his  exposure  to certain  chemicals  used in the plant.  The  Company
denied the charge and  hearings  on the  matter  were held  before the  Workers'
Compensation  Board  of  the  State  of New  York.  On  January  14,  1997,  the
Administrative  Law Judge filed his  Memorandum of Decision  finding in favor of
the  claimant.  The  Company  has filed an appeal.  Based  upon the  information
available the Company at this time,  the Company  believes that this matter will
not have a material, adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company.

On or about July 29, 1996,  Somerset  Technologies filed a third party complaint
seeking  contribution  from the Company for any alleged  damages  that  Somerset
might be required to pay to William  Hallahan.  The third  party  complaint  was
served on the Company on November  22,  1996.  Hallahan  brought a suit  against
Somerset and numerous other  manufacturers of solvents,  coatings and equipment.
Mr. Hallahan alleges in his complaint that the defendants caused his leukemia by
exposing him to harmful toxins. Based upon information  available to the Company
at this time,  the Company  believes  that this matter will not have a material,
adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company.

On November 30, 1995, the U.S.  Justice  Department  filed a lawsuit in the U.S.
District  Court for the  Eastern  District  of  Michigan on behalf of the United
States of America  against Erie Coatings and Chemicals,  Inc., and certain other
defendants   including  the  Company.  The  lawsuit  alleges  that  some  thirty
generators of hazardous waste,  including the Company's metal beverage container
operations,  disposed of hazardous  waste at the Erie  Coatings  and  Chemicals,
Inc., site located in Erie, Michigan.  The Company continues to investigate this
matter and to determine the nature and amount of remedial  costs the  government
is seeking  to recoup.  The United  States  and the  defendants  are  discussing
settlement of this matter.  The United States and the defendants  have agreed to
settle  this  matter for  $900,000  plus  interest.  Based upon the  information
available  to the Company at this time,  the Company  believes  that this matter
will not result in a material  adverse effect on the financial  condition of the
Company.

On January 5, 1996, the Company was served with a lawsuit filed by an individual
named Tangee E.  Daniels,  on behalf of herself and two minor  children and four
other  plaintiffs,   alleging  that  the  Company's  metal  beverage   container
operations a/k/a Ball  Corporation and over fifty other  defendants  disposed of
certain  hazardous  waste at the  hazardous  waste  disposal  site  operated  by
Gibraltar Chemical Resources,  Inc., located in Winona, Smith County, Texas. The
lawsuit also alleges that American  Ecology Corp.,  America  Ecology  Management
Corp., Mobley Environmental Services, Inc., John A. Mobley, James Mobley, Daniel
Mobley,   and  Thomas   Mobley  were   managers  for  Gibraltar  and  failed  to
appropriately  manage the waste  disposed of or treated at the  Gibraltar  site,
resulting  in  release  of  hazardous  substances  into  the  environment.   The
plaintiffs allege that they have been denied the enjoyment of their property and
have  sustained  personal  and bodily  injury and  damages due to the release of
hazardous  waste and toxic  substances  into the  environment  caused by all the
defendants.  The plaintiffs allege numerous causes of action under state law and
common  law.  Plaintiffs  also seek to recover  damages for past,  present,  and
future medical treatment; mental and emotional anguish and trauma; loss of wages
and earning capacity;  and physical impairment,  as well as punitive damages and
prejudgment  interest in  unspecified  amounts.  Three other  lawsuits have been
filed  against  substantially  the  same  defendants:  Williams  v.  Akzo  Nobel
Chemicals,  Inc., and Gibraltar Chemical Resources,  Inc.; Steich v. Akzo et al.
(voluntarily dismissed without prejudice); and Adams v. Akzo et al. Each lawsuit
makes the same allegations that are made in the Daniel's suit and seeks the same
damages.  The  Company is a party  defendant  in each  lawsuit.  The Company has
denied the  allegations  of each  complaint  and intends to defend each  matter.
Based upon the limited information available to the Company at the present time,
the  Company is unable to express  an opinion as to the actual  exposure  of the
Company for these matters.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders

There  were no  matters  submitted  to the  security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of 1996.



                                     Part II

Item 5.   Market for the  Registrant's  Common  Stock  and  Related  Stockholder
          Matters

Ball  Corporation  common  stock  (BLL) is traded on the New York,  Chicago  and
Pacific Stock Exchanges. There were 8,312 common shareholders of record on March
3, 1997.

Other information required by Item 5 appears under the caption, "Quarterly Stock
Prices  and  Dividends,"  in the  1996  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data

The  information  required by Item 6 for the five years ended December 31, 1996,
appearing in the section titled,  "Five Year Review of Selected Financial Data,"
of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.   Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and
          Results of Operations

"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations" of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated  herein by
reference.

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The  consolidated  financial  statements  and notes  thereto of the 1996  Annual
Report to  Shareholders,  together with the report  thereon of Price  Waterhouse
LLP, dated January 21, 1997, are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.   Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure

There were no matters required to be reported under this item.




                                                 Part III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company as of December 31, 1996 were as follows:

 1.   George A. Sissel,  60,  Chairman,  President and Chief Executive  Officer,
      since April 1996; President and Chief Executive Officer, 1995-1996; Acting
      President and Chief Executive Officer,  1994-1995;  Senior Vice President,
      Corporate  Affairs;  Corporate  Secretary and General Counsel,  1993-1995;
      Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel, 1987-1993;
      Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel, 1981-1987.

 2.   R. David Hoover, 51, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
      Treasurer,  since April 1996; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
      Officer,  1995-1996;  Senior Vice President and Chief  Financial  Officer,
      1992-1995; Vice President and Treasurer,  1988-1992;  Assistant Treasurer,
      1987-1988; Vice President, Finance and Administration, Technical Products,
      1985-1987; Vice President, Finance and Administration, Management Services
      Division, 1983-1985.

 3.   David B.  Sheldon,  55,  retired  effective  March 1997 as Executive  Vice
      President,  since  December  1996;  Executive  Vice  President,  Packaging
      Operations,  1995-1996;  Group Vice President;  President,  Metal Beverage
      Container Group; Group Vice President, Packaging Products, 1992-1993; Vice
      President and Group  Executive,  Sales and marketing,  Packaging  Products
      Group, 1988-1992; Vice President and Group Executive, Sales and Marketing,
      Metal Container Group, 1985-1988.

 4.   Duane E. Emerson,  59,  Consultant  to the  Chairman,  President and Chief
      Executive Officer,  and not a corporate officer commencing  February 1997,
      Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer,  1995-1997; Senior
      Vice President, Administration, 1985-1995; Vice President, Administration,
      1980-1985.

 5.   Donovan  B.  Hicks,  59,  retired  effective  December  1996 as Group Vice
      President;  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer,  Ball  Aerospace  &
      Technologies  Corp.,  since January 1988; Group Vice President,  Technical
      Products,     1980-1988;     President,     Ball     Brothers     Research
      Corporation/Division, 1978-1980.

 6.   Richard E. Durbin, 55,  Vice President, Information Services, since  April
      1985;  Corporate  Director,  Information  Services,  1983-1985;  Corporate
      Director, Data Processing, 1981-1983.

 7.   Albert R. Schlesinger,  55,  Vice President and  Controller, since January
      1987; Assistant Controller, 1976-1986.

 8.   Raymond J. Seabrook, 46, Vice President, Planning and Control, since April
      1996; Vice President and Treasurer,  1992-1996;  Senior Vice President and
      Chief Financial Officer, Ball Packaging Products Canada, Inc.,  1988-1992.

 9.   Harold L. Sohn, 51, Vice President, Corporate Relations, since March 1993;
      Director, Industry Affairs, Packaging Products, 1988-1993.

10.   David A.  Westerlund,  46, Vice President,  Administration,  since January
      1997;  Vice  President,  Human  Resources,   1994-1997;  Senior  Director,
      Corporate Human Resources, July 1994-December 1994; Vice President,  Human
      Resources and Administration, Ball Glass Container Corporation, 1988-1994;
      Vice  President,   Human  Resources,  Ball  Glass  Container  Corporation,
      1987-1988.

Other  information  required by Item 10 appearing  under the caption,  "Director
Nominees and Continuing  Directors," on pages 3 through 5 and under the caption,
"Section  16(a)  Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance" on page 20 of the
Company's proxy statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A dated March 17, 1997,
is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.   Executive Compensation

The  information  required by Item 11 appearing  under the  caption,  "Executive
Compensation,"  on pages 7 through 14 of the  Company's  proxy  statement  filed
pursuant to  Regulation  14A dated March 17,  1997,  is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The  information  required  by Item 12  appearing  under  the  caption,  "Voting
Securities and Principal  Shareholders," on pages 1 and 2 of the Company's proxy
statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A dated March 17, 1997, is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information  required by Item 13 appearing under the caption,  "Relationship
with Independent Public Accountants and Certain Other  Relationships and Related
Transactions,"  on page 16 of the Company's  proxy  statement  filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A dated March 17, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference.



                                     Part IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) (1) Financial Statements:

        The  following   documents   included  in  the  1996  Annual  Report  to
        Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8:

           Consolidated  statement of income  (loss) - Years ended  December 31,
           1996, 1995 and 1994

           Consolidated balance sheet - December 31, 1996 and 1995

           Consolidated statement of cash flows - Years ended December 31, 1996,
           1995 and 1994

           Consolidated  statement  of changes in  shareholders'  equity - Years
           ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

           Notes to consolidated financial statements

           Report of independent accountants

   (2)  Financial Statement Schedules:

        There were no financial statement schedules required under this item.

   (3)  Exhibits:

        See the Index to Exhibits  which appears at the end of this document and
        which is incorporated by reference herein.

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K:

        The  registrant  filed or amended  reports on Form 8-K as follows:

        A current report on Form 8-K filed October 16, 1996, reporting under (i)
        Item 2 the disposition of the Company's 42 percent indirect  interest in
        Ball-Foster,  and (ii) Item 5 an  announcement  to exit the  aerosol can
        manufacturing business by selling Ball's Cincinnati  manufacturing plant
        and certain other assets to BWAY Corporation of Atlanta.



        A current report on Form 8-K filed on November 15, 1996, reporting under
        Item 5 an announcement that Ball had reached a definitive agreement with
        the  Honickman  Group of  Philadelphia  to  acquire  certain  assets  of
        Brunswick Corporation,  a company which manufactures PET plastic bottles
        for use by Honickman's soft drink bottling companies.

        A current report on Form 8-K filed on December 31, 1996, reporting under
        Item 5 a restatement of financial  statements for exit of the commercial
        glass packaging business.

        A current report on Form 8-K filed on January 17, 1997, reporting  under
        Item 5 an announcement  that Ball's Hong Kong subsidiary,  FTB Packaging
        Limited,  had completed  the purchase of Lam Soon (Hong Kong)  Limited's
        controlling interest in M.C. Packaging (Hong Kong) Limited on January 2,
        1997.

        A current  report on Form 8-K filed on March 20, 1997,  reporting  under
        Item 5 an announcement  that Ball completed an offering for the publicly
        held shares of M.C. Packaging Limited of Hong Kong.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                  BALL CORPORATION
                                  (Registrant)

                                  By:  /s/George A. Sissel
                                       ----------------------------------
                                       George A. Sissel, Chairman,   President
                                         and Chief Executive Officer
                                       March 31, 1997


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed by the following  persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated below.

(1)      Principal Executive Officer:

                                              Chairman, President and
         /s/George A. Sissel                  Chief Executive Officer
         -----------------------------------
         George A. Sissel                     March 31, 1997

(2)      Principal Financial Accounting Officer:

                                              Executive Vice President,
                                              Chief Financial Officer and 
                                              Treasurer
         /s/R. David Hoover
         -----------------------------------
         R. David Hoover                      March 31, 1997

(3)      Controller:

         /s/Albert R. Schlesinger             Vice President and Controller
         -----------------------------------
         Albert R. Schlesinger                March 31, 1997

(4)      A Majority of the Board of Directors:

         /s/Frank A. Bracken               *  Director
         -----------------------------------
         Frank A. Bracken                     March 31, 1997

         /s/Howard M. Dean                 *  Director
         -----------------------------------
         Howard M. Dean                       March 31, 1997

         /s/John T. Hackett                *  Director
         -----------------------------------
         John T. Hackett                      March 31, 1997

         /s/R. David Hoover                *  Director
         -----------------------------------
         R. David Hoover                      March 31, 1997

         /s/John F. Lehman                 *  Director
         -----------------------------------
         John F. Lehman                       March 31, 1997

         /s/George McFadden                *  Director
         -----------------------------------
         George McFadden                      March 31, 1997

         /s/Ruel C. Mercure, Jr.           *  Director
         -----------------------------------
         Ruel C. Mercure, Jr.                 March 31, 1997




         /s/Jan Nicholson                  *  Director
         -----------------------------------
         Jan Nicholson                        March 31, 1997

                                              Chairman, President,
                                              Chief Executive Officer and
         /s/George A. Sissel               *  Director
         -----------------------------------
         George A. Sissel                     March 31, 1997

         /s/William P. Stiritz             *  Director
         -----------------------------------
         William P. Stiritz                   March 31, 1997



*By George A. Sissel as Attorney-in-Fact pursuant to a Limited Power of Attorney
executed by the directors  listed above,  which Power of Attorney has been filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

                                                    By:   /s/George A. Sissel
                                                          ----------------------
                                                          George A. Sissel
                                                          As Attorney-in-Fact
                                                          March 31, 1997



                        Ball Corporation and Subsidiaries
                           Annual Report on Form 10-K
                      For the year ended December 31, 1996

                                Index to Exhibits


      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
       3.(i)     Amended  Articles  of  Incorporation  as of  November  26, 1990
                 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to the Current Report on
                 Form 8-K dated November 30, 1990) filed December 13, 1990.

       3.(ii)    Bylaws of Ball  Corporation as amended  January 25, 1994 (filed
                 by incorporation by reference to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1993) filed March 29, 1994.

       4.1       Ball  Corporation and its  subsidiaries  have no long-term debt
                 instruments in which the total amount of securities  authorized
                 under any  instrument  exceeds  10% of the total  assets of the
                 registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated  basis.  Ball
                 Corporation  hereby  agrees to furnish a copy of any  long-term
                 debt instruments upon the request of the Commission.

       4.2       Dividend  distribution  payable  to  shareholders  of record on
                 August 4, 2006, of one preferred  stock purchase right for each
                 outstanding  share of common  stock under the Rights  Agreement
                 dated as of July 24,  1996, between the Company and  The  First
                 Chicago Trust Company of New York (filed by  incorporation   by
                 reference to the Form 8-A  Registration Statement,  No. 1-7349,
                 dated  August 1,  1996,  and  filed  August 2, 1996, and to the
                 Company's Form 8-K Report dated  February 13, 1996,  and  filed
                 February 14, 1996).

      10.1       1980  Stock Option  and  Stock  Appreciation  Rights  Plan,  as
                 amended, 1983 Stock Option and Stock  Appreciation  Rights Plan
                 (filed  by   incorporation  by   reference  to  the   Form  S-8
                 Registration Statement, No. 2-82925) filed April 27, 1983.

      10.2       Restricted Stock Plan  (filed by  incorporation by reference to
                 the  Form S-8 Registration Statement, No. 2-61252) filed May 2,
                 1978.

      10.3       1988  Restricted  Stock  Plan and 1988  Stock  Option and Stock
                 Appreciation  Rights Plan (filed by  incorporation by reference
                 to the Form S-8  Registration  Statement,  No.  33-21506) filed
                 April 27, 1988.

      10.4       Ball Corporation Deferred Incentive Compensation Plan (filed by
                 incorporation  by reference  to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1987) filed March 25, 1988.

      10.5       Ball  Corporation 1986 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.6       Ball  Corporation 1988 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.7       Ball  Corporation 1989 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.8       Amended and Restated Form of Severance  Benefit Agreement which
                 exists  between  the  Company   and  its   executive  officers,
                 effective  as of  August 1, 1994  and as amended on January 24,
                 1996  (filed by  incorporation by  reference to  the  Quarterly
                 Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1996) filed
                 May 15, 1996.

      10.9       An agreement dated September 15, 1988, between Ball Corporation
                 and Onex  Corporation to form a joint venture  company known as
                 Ball-Onex   Packaging  Corp.,   since  renamed  Ball  Packaging
                 Products  Canada,  Inc. (filed by incorporation by reference to
                 the  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  December 8, 1988) filed
                 December 23, 1988.

      10.10      Stock  Purchase  Agreement  dated as of  June 29, 1989, between
                 Ball Corporation and  Mellon Bank, N.A. (filed by incorporation
                 by  reference to the  Quarterly  Report on  Form  10-Q  for the
                 quarter ended July 2, 1989) filed August 15, 1989.

      10.11      Ball Corporation 1986 Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors,
                 as  amended  October  27,  1987  (filed  by   incorporation  by
                 reference to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1990) filed April 1, 1991.

      10.12      1991 Restricted Stock Plan for  Nonemployee  Directors of  Ball
                 Corporation  (filed by  incorporation by  reference to the Form
                 S-8 Registration Statement, No. 33-40199) filed April 26, 1991.

      10.13      Agreement of Purchase and Sale,  dated April 11, 1991,  between
                 Ball  Corporation  and  the  term  lenders  of  Ball  Packaging
                 Products  Canada,  Inc.,  Citibank  Canada,  as Agent (filed by
                 incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                 for the quarter ended March 31, 1991) filed May 15, 1991.

      10.14      Ball  Corporation  Economic Value Added Incentive  Compensation
                 Plan dated January 1, 1994 (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December
                 31, 1994) filed March 29, 1995.



      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
      10.15      Agreement and  Plan of  Merger among Ball Corporation, Ball Sub
                 Corp. and Heekin Can, Inc. dated as of December 1, 1992, and as
                 amended  as  of  December 28, 1992  (filed by  incorporation by
                 reference  to  the  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-4, No.
                 33-58516) filed February 19, 1993.

      10.16      Distribution  Agreement  between Ball Corporation and Alltrista
                 (filed  by   incorporation   by  reference  to  the   Alltrista
                 Corporation  Form 8,  Amendment No. 3 to Form 10, No.  0-21052,
                 dated December 31, 1992) filed March 17, 1993.

      10.17      1993 Stock Option Plan (filed by incorporation by reference  to
                 the Form S-8 Registration Statement, No. 33-61986) filed  April
                 30, 1993.

      10.18      Retirement  Agreement  dated June 17, 1994,  between Delmont A.
                 Davis and Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July
                 3, 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.19      Ball-InCon Glass Packaging Corp. Deferred Compensation Plan, as
                 amended  July 1, 1994  (filed by  incorporation by reference to
                 the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.20      Retention  Agreement  dated June 22, 1994,  between  Donovan B.
                 Hicks and Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July
                 3, 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.21      Ball Corporation  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (filed
                 by  incorporation  by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form
                 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 1994) filed  November 15,
                 1994.

      10.22      Ball  Corporation  Split Dollar Life  Insurance  Plan (filed by
                 incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                 for the quarter ended October 2, 1994) filed November 15, 1994.

      10.23      Ball  Corporation  Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan, dated October
                 25, 1994, as amended  October 23, 1996 (filed by  incorporation
                 by  reference  to the  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-K for the
                 quarter ended September 29, 1996) filed November 13, 1996.

      10.24      Asset  Purchase  Agreement  dated June 26,  1995,  among Foster
                 Ball,  L.L.C.  (since renamed  Ball-Foster Glass Container Co.,
                 L.L.C.),  Ball Glass Container Corporation and Ball Corporation
                 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to the Current Report on
                 Form 8-K dated September 15, 1995) filed September 29, 1995.

      10.25      Foster Ball, L.L.C. (since renamed Ball-Foster Glass  Container
                 Co., L.L.C.) Amended and  Restated  Limited  Liability  Company
                 Agreement dated June 26, 1995,  among  Saint-Gobain  Holdings I
                 Corp.,  BG Holdings I, Inc. and  BG Holdings II, Inc. (filed by
                 incorporation  by  reference to the  Current Report on Form 8-K
                 dated September 15, 1995) filed September 29, 1995.

      10.26      Part-Time  Employment,  Retirement  and   Consulting   Services
                 Agreement between  Duane E. Emerson and  Ball Corporation dated
                 January 14, 1997. (Filed herewith.)

      10.27      Agreement and General Release between David B. Sheldon and Ball
                 Corporation dated February 7, 1997. (Filed herewith.)

      10.28      Consulting Agreement between The Cygnus Enterprise  Development
                 Corp. (for which Donovan B. Hicks is managing partner) and Ball
                 Corporation dated January 1, 1997.  (Filed herewith.)

      11.1       Statement  re:  Computation  of  Earnings  Per  Share.   (Filed
                 herewith.)

      13.1       Ball Corporation 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders (The Annual
                 Report  to  Shareholders,  except  for those  portions  thereof
                 incorporated by reference,  is furnished for the information of
                 the  Commission  and is not to be deemed  filed as part of this
                 Form 10-K.) (Filed herewith.)

      18.1       Letter  re:   Change  in   Accounting   Principles.   (filed by
                 incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                 for  the quarterly period ended July 2, 1995) filed  August 15,
                 1995.

      21.1       List of Subsidiaries of Ball Corporation.  (Filed herewith.)

      23.1       Consent of Independent Accountants. (Filed herewith.)

      24.1       Limited Power of Attorney.  (Filed herewith.)

      27.1       Financial Data Schedule for  the year ended  December 31, 1996.
                 (Filed herewith.)

      27.2       Restated  Financial Data Schedule  for  the  nine month  period
                 ended September 29, 1996.  (Filed herewith.)

      27.3       Restated Financial Data Schedule for the six month period ended
                 June 30, 1996.  (Filed herewith.)

      99.1       Specimen Certificate of Common Stock (filed by incorporation by
                 reference to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1979) filed March 24, 1980.

      99.2       Cautionary  statement   for  purposes  of  the   "safe  harbor"
                 provisions  of the  Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
                 1995, as amended. (Filed herewith.)


