
10-K
FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

           ( X ) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995

          ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
       For the transition period from ________________ to ________________
                          Commission File Number 1-7349
                                Ball Corporation
                           State of Indiana 35-0160610

                      345 South High Street, P.O. Box 2407
                           Muncie, Indiana 47307-0407
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (317) 747-6100
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                   Name of each exchange
       Title of each class                          on which registered
- - ---------------------------------             --------------------------------
 Common Stock, without par value                New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                                Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                                Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES [ X ] NO [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The  aggregate  market  value of  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
registrant  was $887.6  million based upon the closing  market price on March 1,
1996  (excluding  Series B ESOP  Convertible  Preferred Stock of the registrant,
which  series is not  publicly  traded  and which has an  aggregate  liquidation
preference of $65.6 million).

Number of shares outstanding as of the latest practicable date.

               Class                       Outstanding at March 1, 1996
- - ----------------------------------         ----------------------------
  Common Stock, without par value                   30,179,074


                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1. Annual Report to  Shareholders  for the  year ended December 31, 1995, to the
   extent  indicated  in  Parts  I,  II,  and  IV.   Except  as  to  information
   specifically  incorporated,  the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders is not to
   be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K Annual Report.

2. Proxy statement filed with the Commission dated March 18, 1996, to the extent
   indicated in Part III.


                                     PART I

Item 1.    Business

Ball Corporation is an Indiana corporation organized in 1880 and incorporated in
1922.  Its  principal  executive  offices are located at 345 South High  Street,
Muncie,  Indiana  47305-2326.  The terms "Ball" and the "company" as used herein
refer to Ball Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Ball  Corporation is a manufacturer  of packaging  products for use primarily in
the packaging of food and beverage products. The company also provides aerospace
and communications  products and professional services to the federal sector and
commercial customers.

The  following  sections  of the 1995  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders  contain
financial and other  information  concerning  company business  developments and
operations, and are incorporated herein by reference: the notes to the financial
statements   "Business   Segment   Information,"   "Dispositions,"   "Spin-Off",
"Acquisition,"  "Restructuring  and Other Charges" and "Management's  Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

                          Recent Business Developments

The company  took a number of actions  during 1995 which have  affected the core
business.  The most  significant of these actions are summarized  briefly below.
Further  information  regarding  these  actions  are  found in the  notes to the
financial  statements  "Dispositions," and "Restructuring and Other Charges" and
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations" in the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Ball-Foster Glass Container Co., L.L.C.
As a result of  consolidation  within the highly  competitive,  mature  domestic
glass packaging  industry,  and due to the capital  requirements to aggressively
participate  in higher growth  packaging  markets,  the company in 1995 formed a
strategic  alliance with Compagnie de Saint-Gobain  (Saint-Gobain),  to create a
new U.S. glass company,  Ball-Foster Glass Container Co., L.L.C.  (Ball-Foster).
Ball-Foster acquired the glass businesses of both the company and Foster-Forbes,
a unit of American  National Can  Company.  Ball-Foster,  as the second  largest
domestic glass  producer,  has the potential to realize  economies  necessary to
compete effectively.  The company acquired a 42-percent interest in Ball-Foster;
the remaining 58-percent interest was acquired by Saint-Gobain.

Plastic Packaging
In  1994  the  company  announced  that it  would  enter  the PET  (polyethylene
terephthalate)  plastic container market. By late in the fourth quarter of 1995,
construction  of a  pilot  line  and  research  and  development  center  and  a
multi-line  manufacturing  facility,  with full  production  anticipated  in the
second quarter of 1996, were completed.  Two additional multi-line manufacturing
facilities were under construction.

FTB Packaging
Through a series of investments,  the company  increased its equity ownership in
FTB Packaging,  Limited.  (FTB  Packaging),  its Hong Kong-based metal packaging
subsidiary,  to approximately  92 percent.  FTB Packaging has been included on a
consolidated  basis within the packaging  segment  effective  January 1995.  The
company's  investments  in  the  People's  Republic  of  China  (PRC)  are  held
principally through FTB Packaging.

Efratom
In 1994 the company concluded a study to explore strategic  alternatives for the
aerospace and technologies  business (formerly aerospace and communications).  A
decision was made to retain the core business,  but to sell the Efratom time and
frequency  measurement  business.  Efratom  was sold in March 1995 to Datum Inc.
(Datum) for cash of $15.0 million and  approximately  1.3 million shares,  or 32
percent, of Datum common stock.

EarthWatch
In 1994 the company and WorldView, Inc. formed EarthWatch,  Inc. (EarthWatch) to
commercialize  certain  proprietary  technologies  by  serving  the  market  for
satellite-based  remote sensing of the Earth. The company invested approximately
$21 million in EarthWatch in 1995, and, it is anticipated that by mid-1996,  the
company's  ownership  will be  established  at less than 50  percent of this new
venture.

Capacity Reductions
During the fourth quarter of 1995, the company recorded a pretax charge of $10.9
million ($6.6 million after tax or 22 cents per share) as a result of a decision
to close a metal slitting and coating  facility  which  supported the metal food
and specialty  products  business and write down  underutilized  metal  beverage
container end manufacturing equipment to net realizable value.

           Other Information Pertaining to the Business of the Company

The company's  continuing  businesses are comprised of two segments:  packaging,
and aerospace and technologies.

Packaging Segment

The company's principal business segment develops,  manufactures and sells rigid
packaging products, containers and materials primarily for use in packaging food
and beverage products. Most of the company's packaging segment products are sold
in highly competitive markets,  primarily based on price,  service,  quality and
performance.  The majority of the company's packaging sales are made directly to
major  companies  having leading market  positions in packaged food and beverage
businesses.  A substantial  portion of the company's sales of packaging products
is made to relatively few customers.  The company  believes that its competitors
exhibit similar customer concentrations.

The packaging business is capital intensive,  requiring significant  investments
in machinery and equipment.  Profitability  is sensitive to production  volumes,
the cost of labor and certain significant raw materials, such as aluminum, steel
and plastic resin.

Raw materials used by the company's packaging businesses are generally available
from several  sources.  The company has secured what it considers to be adequate
supplies of raw materials and is not  experiencing  any shortage.  The company's
manufacturing   facilities  are  dependent,   in  varying   degrees,   upon  the
availability  of process  energy,  such as natural  gas and  electricity.  While
certain of these energy  sources may become  increasingly  in short  supply,  or
subject to government allocation or excise taxes, the company cannot predict the
effects, if any, of such occurrences on its future operations.

Research and development  efforts in these businesses  generally seek to improve
manufacturing efficiencies and lower unit costs, principally raw material costs,
by reducing the material  content of containers  while  improving or maintaining
other physical properties such as material strength.  In addition,  research and
development  efforts are directed toward  the development of new sizes and types
of containers  such as the SlimCan and the patented  Touch TopTM metal  beverage
container easy-open end.

The operations and products within this segment are discussed below:

Metal Packaging

Metal packaging is comprised primarily of two product lines:  two-piece beverage
containers and two and three-piece food  containers.  Dominance in both the food
and  beverage   markets  and  high  recycling  rates  contribute  to  the  metal
container's  significant market share.  However,  plastic containers,  primarily
PET, have made recent gains against metal beverage  containers in the soft drink
market.  Current industry  forecasts indicate that this trend will continue such
that PET  containers'  market  share of packaged  soft  drinks may exceed  metal
beverage containers by the year 2000.

The  company   provides   manufacturing   technology   and   assistance  to  can
manufacturers in Europe, the Middle East, Latin America, Australia and Asia. The
company also has a minority equity position in a new joint venture, in which the
company  constructed the first two-piece beverage can manufacturing plant in the
Philippines. In 1995, the company announced the formation of a new joint venture
with BBM  Participacoes  S.A.  to produce  two-piece  aluminum  cans and ends in
Brazil.  The company and BBM Participacoes S.A. will each own 50 percent of this
venture.  In early 1996, the company announced a joint venture with Standard Can
Company  of  Bangkok,  Thailand,  to  build a  two-piece  can and end  plant  in
Thailand. Ball and Standard Can will each own 40 percent; the remaining interest
will be held by local investors.

Metal beverage containers

Metal beverage  containers and ends represent the company's largest product line
accounting  for  approximately  48  percent  of  1995  consolidated  net  sales.
Decorated  two-piece aluminum beverage cans are produced by seven  manufacturing
facilities in the U.S. and three facilities in Canada;  ends are produced by two
of the U.S.  facilities.  Metal  beverage cans are also produced in China by FTB
Packaging's  majority-owned  subsidiary  in Xian and its  equity  affiliates  in
Zhuhai and Sanshui;  ends are  produced at Zhuhai and Sanshui.  Two new beverage
container  facilities are under  construction in the PRC in Beijing and Wuhan in
which FTB Packaging will be the majority owner. These facilities are expected to
begin production in 1996.

Metal  beverage  containers  are  sold  primarily  to  brewers  and  fillers  of
carbonated  soft drinks and other  beverages  under  long-term  supply or annual
contracts.  Sales to the company's largest customer,  Anheuser-Busch  Companies,
Inc.,  accounted  for  approximately  11 percent  of  consolidated  1995  sales.
Combined  sales to all bottlers of Pepsi-Cola  and Coca-Cola  branded  beverages
comprised  approximately 25 percent of consolidated 1995 sales.  Sales volume of
metal beverage cans and ends tends to be highest during the period between April
and September.

The company estimates that it has an approximate 16 percent market share,  based
upon estimated 1995 total industry  shipments of aluminum beverage cans and ends
to the combined U.S. and Canadian  market.  The company  estimates that its four
larger competitors together represent approximately 84 percent of estimated 1995
total industry shipments for the U.S. and Canada.

The U.S. metal beverage  container industry had experienced steady demand growth
at a compounded  annual rate of approximately  3.3 percent over the last decade,
with much of that  growth in the soft drink  market  segment.  However,  in 1995
aluminum suppliers changed the pricing formula for aluminum can sheet to a price
based on ingot plus  conversion  costs,  in  contrast  to the prior  practice of
annually  negotiated  prices.  As a  result,  the  cost of  aluminum  can  sheet
increased significantly and was reflected in higher beverage can selling prices.
It is believed that the soft drink industry responded by reducing its promotions
of products packaged in aluminum containers in 1995, and, coupled with increased
customer  purchases in the fourth quarter of 1994 in  anticipation of the higher
can prices,  resulted in lower can  shipments for the industry by an estimated 5
percent.  Shipments  to the  beer  industry  were  also  affected  by the  price
increase,  the  accelerated  shipments in 1994, and the predominant use of glass
containers for introduction of new products.

In  Canada,   metal  beverage  containers  have  captured   significantly  lower
percentages of the packaged  beverage  market than in the U.S.,  particularly in
the packaged beer market, in which the market share of metal containers has been
hindered by trade barriers and restrictive taxes within Canada.

Beverage  container  industry  production  capacity  in the U.S.  and Canada has
exceeded  demand in the last  several  years,  which has  created a  competitive
pricing  environment.  While higher aluminum can sheet costs were largely passed
through to customers through higher container  pricing,  it appears that pricing
will continue to be a major competitive factor.

The company, through its subsidiary,  FTB Packaging, is the largest beverage can
manufacturer in the PRC, with an estimated market share of 35 percent (including
equity affiliates).  The company's joint venture Sanshui Jianlibao FTB Packaging
Ltd. is the largest can  manufacturing  facility in the PRC. Capacity within the
PRC has doubled in less than two years and is expected to outstrip demand by the
end of 1996.  However,  as per capita  consumption  in the PRC is  significantly
lower than in more developed countries and per capita income in China is rising,
there is significant  potential for strong demand growth.  However,  as in North
America, as capacity increases to meet demand,  competitive pressure on pricing,
currently at a premium  compared to North America,  will increase.  Sales of FTB
Packaging represented less than three percent of consolidated 1995 net sales.

Metal food containers

Two-piece and three-piece  steel food containers are  manufactured in Canada and
the U.S. and sold  primarily  to food  processors  in Canada and the  Midwestern
United States.  In 1995 metal food container  sales comprised  approximately  19
percent of consolidated net sales.  Sales to one customer  represented more than
10 percent of this operation's 1995 sales. Sales volume of metal food containers
tends to be highest from June through October as a result of seasonal  vegetable
packs.

Recent consolidations within the commercial food container industry have reduced
the number of competitors.  Currently,  the company has one principal competitor
located in Canada and two primary competitors located in the U.S. food container
market.  Based on estimated 1995 industry shipments,  the company estimates that
it is the third largest metal food container manufacturer with an approximate 18
percent share of the North American commercial market for metal food containers.

In the food container industry,  capacity in North America significantly exceeds
market demand, resulting in a highly  price-competitive  market. During 1993 the
company  completed  consolidation  of  certain  facilities  in  Canada  and,  in
conjunction with the  restructuring  plans developed in 1993, the company closed
its Augusta,  Wisconsin,  plant and sold its Alsip, Illinois, plant during 1994.
Late  in  1995,   the   company   substantially   completed   the   closure  and
reconfiguration of certain Canadian  facilities.  Further, the company announced
the closure in 1996 of a facility in  Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania,  which provides
metal  coating and slitting  services to the metal food and  specialty  products
businesses.

As part of the company's initiative to expand its presence internationally,  the
company  announced the formation of a new joint venture company,  Ningbo FTB Can
Company, Ltd., to manufacture three-piece food cans in the PRC. This venture, in
which  FTB  Packaging  will  have a  majority  interest,  is  expected  to begin
operations in 1996. Other metal packaging

The  company  also  manufactures  containers  for  aerosol  products  and  other
specialty goods.

Plastic Packaging

PET  (polyethylene  terephthalate)  plastic  containers is the company's  newest
business.  A full-scale pilot line,  research and development  center in Smyrna,
Georgia, was completed in 1995. In addition, a multi-line production facility in
Chino,  California,  was  completed  in 1995,  and  construction  for two  other
production  facilities  in New York and  Pennsylvania  was  started.  Full-scale
production  is  anticipated  to  begin  in the  second  quarter  of  1996 in the
California and New York facilities;  the Pennsylvania facility is anticipated to
be in full production by the end of the third quarter of 1996.

Demand for  containers  made of (PET) has  increased in the  beverage  packaging
market and is expected to increase in the food  packaging  market with  improved
technology  and  adequate  supplies  of PET resin.  While PET  plastic  beverage
containers  compete  against both metal and glass,  the  historical  increase in
PET's market share has come  primarily  at the expense of glass  containers.  In
1994 the domestic plastic container market reached $5.5 billion,  surpassing the
size of the glass container market for the first time.  Projections for the year
2000 (based on estimated  pounds of resin used) range from an increase of almost
60 percent to 100 percent compared to 1995.

Competition  in this  industry  includes  two  national  suppliers  and  several
regional suppliers and self-manufacturers  (primarily Coca-Cola). Price, service
and quality  are  deciding  competitive  factors.  Increasingly,  the ability to
produce customized differentiated plastic containers is an important competitive
factor.

The demand for PET resins in North  America has exceeded  supply in the last few
years. However, all North American PET resin producers have significant capacity
expansion either under way or planned in the U.S., Canada or Mexico,  which will
result in design capacity  exceeding demand within the near future.  The company
has  arranged  for an  adequate  supply  of resin to meet  its  near-term  sales
commitments.

The company has secured long-term  customer supply  agreements,  principally for
beverage  containers.  Other  products  such as juice,  water,  liquor  and food
containers are key elements in expanding the business. The company expects sales
of PET  containers  to be  approximately  $100  million  in  1996,  and that the
business  will  operate  at a loss  for  1996 as the  new  plants  become  fully
operational.

Aerospace and Technologies Segment

The aerospace and technologies  segment (formerly  aerospace and communications)
provides systems, products and services to the aerospace, defense and commercial
markets.   Sales  in  the  aerospace  and  technologies  segment  accounted  for
approximately  12 percent of  consolidated  net sales in 1995.  Approximately  8
percent  of  the   segment's   sales  in  1995  were  made  to  the   commercial
telecommunications  industry  and 6 percent of sales were made to  international
customers.

The majority of the company's  aerospace business involves work under relatively
short-term  contracts (generally one to five years) for the National Aeronautics
and Space  Administration  (NASA),  the U.S.  Department  of  Defense  (DoD) and
foreign  governments.  Contracts  funded by the various  agencies of the federal
government represented approximately 86 percent of this segment's sales in 1995.
Overall,  competition  within the  aerospace  business is expected to intensify.
Declining defense spending generally has resulted in greater competition for DoD
contracts as the military market decreases,  as well as greater  competition for
NASA and other civilian aerospace contracts historically serviced by Ball.

Aerospace systems

Primary products of the electro-optics  business include:  spacecraft  guidance,
control instruments and sensors;  defense subsystems for surveillance,  warning,
target  identification  and  attitude  control in military  and  civilian  space
applications; and scientific instruments used in various space and Earth science
applications.

Space systems include satellites,  ground systems and launch vehicle integration
to NASA, the DoD and to commercial  and  international  customers.  Products and
services include mission  definition and design;  satellite design,  manufacture
and  testing;  payload  and  launch  vehicle  definition  and  integration;  and
satellite ground station control hardware and software.

Ball also  provides a range of  professional  technical  services to  government
customers including systems engineering  support;  simulation studies,  analysis
and prototype hardware; and hardware and software research and development tasks
for test and evaluation of government  programs.  Revenues derived from services
represented less than two percent of consolidated 1995 net sales.

Primary  products  in the  cryogenics  business  include:  open cycle  cryogenic
storage and cooling devices;  mechanical  refrigerators  that provide  cryogenic
cooling;  and thermal electric coolers and radiative  coolers,  all of which are
used for the cooling of detectors and associated equipment for space science and
Earth remote sensing applications.

Telecommunication products

Commercial  telecommunications  equipment  is supplied to customers in satellite
and ground communications markets.  Products are supplied on a fixed price basis
to original equipment manufacturers both domestically and internationally. These
markets are generally  characterized as having  relatively high growth rates (10
percent annually) and the products supplied typically have life cycles of 3 to 5
years.

Ball provides advanced radio frequency transmission and reception antennae for a
variety  of  aerospace  and  defense  platforms,  including  aircraft,  missile,
spacecraft,  ground  mobile  equipment  and  ships.  Antenna  products  are also
provided for  commercial  aircraft for  satellite  communication  and  collision
avoidance applications.

Backlog

Backlog of the aerospace and technologies segment was approximately $420 million
at December 31, 1995, and $322 million at December 31, 1994, and consists of the
aggregate contract value of firm orders excluding amounts previously  recognized
as revenue.  The 1995  backlog  includes  approximately  $233  million  which is
expected to be billed  during  1996,  with the  remainder  expected to be billed
thereafter.  Unfunded  amounts  included in backlog for certain firm  government
orders which are subject to annual  funding were  approximately  $268 million at
December  31,  1995.  Year-to-year  comparisons  of backlog are not  necessarily
indicative of future operations.

The company's  aerospace and  technologies  segment has contracts  with the U.S.
Government which have standard  termination  provisions.  The Government retains
the right to terminate  contracts at its convenience.  However, if contracts are
terminated,  the company is entitled to be reimbursed  for  allowable  costs and
profits to the date of termination relating to authorized work performed to such
date. U.S. Government contracts are also subject to reduction or modification in
the event of changes in Government requirements or budgetary constraints.

Ball-Foster Glass Container Co., L.L.C.

The company has a 42-percent interest in Ball-Foster Glass Container Co., L.L.C.
(Ball-Foster), a manufacturer of a diversified line of glass containers for sale
primarily to processors,  packers and  distributors of food, soft drinks,  beer,
juice,  wine and liquor products.  Ball-Foster  currently  operates twenty glass
container  manufacturing  facilities and a glass mold manufacturing facility. In
addition,  Ball-Foster  manages a glass plant owned by Madera Glass  Company,  a
51-percent  owned  subsidiary of  Ball-Foster,  and a second plant through a 50%
venture with Tropicana Products, Inc.

The company  estimates that Ball-Foster is the second largest domestic  producer
of commercial glass  containers with a 30 percent market share,  based upon 1995
units shipped,  assuming the businesses had been combined for the full year. The
largest  competitor  is  estimated to comprise  approximately  40 percent of the
domestic  market.  Service,  quality,  performance and price are  discriminating
competitive factors.

The majority of Ball-Foster's  sales are made directly to major companies having
leading market  positions in packaged  beer,  soft drinks,  food and juice,  and
still  wines and  champagnes.  Sales to one  customer  represented  more than 10
percent  of  Ball-Foster's  1995  sales for the  period  from its  formation  on
September 15, 1995.

Ball-Foster  manufactures  a  wide  range  of  glass  containers  for  the  food
(including juices), beer and soft drink industries, which comprise approximately
40 percent, 37 percent and 15 percent,  respectively,  of Ball-Foster's proforma
total annual unit shipments.  The total market for all types of glass containers
decreased  approximately  5.4 percent in 1995 and has been essentially flat over
the last decade.  However,  industry shipments of food containers have increased
approximately  2.1  percent  per annum since  1985,  and  shipments  to the beer
industry have increased  approximately  2.8 percent per annum since 1985 and 4.6
percent since 1990, primarily due to the recent proliferation of new beers which
have been introduced  predominantly  in glass  containers.  These increases have
been  offset by  decreases  in  shipments  to the soft  drink,  liquor  and wine
industries as other  packaging  materials,  such as metal,  plastic and flexible
packaging,  have captured a share of products  previously packaged in glass, and
to a general  decline in alcohol  consumption.  Declining  long-term  demand for
glass packaging has resulted in manufacturers reducing their production capacity
in order to  maintain a balance  between  market  demand and  supply.  The glass
container  industry  continues  to face a  challenging  environment  as  plastic
container demand rises.

The number of glass container  manufacturers  has consolidated from 21 companies
operating  121 plants in 1983 to nine  companies  with 63 plants in 1996.  Since
1991, nine plants were closed in the industry:  four within the company's former
glass container business and five by competitors of Ball-Foster.  In March 1996,
Ball-Foster  announced  that two of its plants  will be closed in 1996.  Further
analysis  is  in  process  to  determine  if   additional   plant   closures  or
restructuring  is necessary to achieve,  in part, the benefits  anticipated from
the combining of the glass businesses within Ball-Foster.

                                     Patents

In the opinion of the  company,  none of its active  patents is essential to the
successful operation of its business as a whole.

                            Research and Development

The note,  "Research and Development," of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders
contains  information  on  company  research  and  development  activity  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                   Environment

Compliance  with  federal,  state and local laws  relating to  protection of the
environment  has not had a material,  adverse effect upon capital  expenditures,
earnings or competitive  position of the company.  As more fully described under
Item 3. Legal Proceedings,  the U. S. Environmental  Protection Agency (EPA) and
various  state   environmental   agencies  have  designated  the  company  as  a
potentially  responsible  party,  along with numerous other  companies,  for the
cleanup of several hazardous waste sites.  However, the company's information at
this time does not indicate  that these  matters  will have a material,  adverse
effect upon financial condition, results of operations,  capital expenditures or
competitive position of the company.

Legislation  which would  prohibit,  tax or restrict  the sale or use of certain
types of  containers,  and  would  require  diversion  of solid  wastes  such as
packaging materials from disposal in landfills, has been or may be introduced in
U.S.  Congress and the  Canadian  Parliament,  in state and Canadian  provincial
legislatures and other legislative bodies. While container  legislation has been
adopted in a few jurisdictions,  similar legislation has been defeated in public
referenda in several  other  states,  in local  elections  and in many state and
local legislative sessions. The company anticipates that continuing efforts will
be made to consider  and adopt such  legislation  in many  jurisdictions  in the
future. If such legislation was widely adopted, it could have a material adverse
effect on the business of the company, as well as on the container manufacturing
industry  generally,  in view of the company's  substantial North American sales
and  investment in metal and PET beverage  container  manufacture as well as its
investment in glass container packaging.

Aluminum,  PET and glass containers are recyclable,  and significant  amounts of
used containers are being recycled and diverted from the solid waste stream.  In
1995  approximately 62 percent of aluminum beverage  containers sold in the U.S.
were recycled. In 1994, the most recent data available, approximately 49 percent
of the  PET  beverage  containers,  and  approximately  33  percent  of all  PET
containers, sold in the U.S. were recycled.

                                    Employees

As of March 1996 Ball employed approximately 7,500 people.

Item 2.    Properties

The company's  properties  are well  maintained,  considered  adequate and being
utilized for their intended purposes.

The Corporate  headquarters and certain research and engineering  facilities are
located in Muncie, Indiana. The offices for metal packaging operations are based
in  Westminster,  Colorado.  Also located at  Westminster  is the Edmund F. Ball
Technical Center,  which serves as a research and development facility primarily
for the metal  packaging  operations.  The offices,  pilot line and research and
development center for the new plastic container business are located in Smyrna,
Georgia.  Information  regarding  the  approximate  size  of  the  manufacturing
facilities for significant packaging operations, which are owned by the company,
except where indicated otherwise, is provided below.

                                                 Approximate
                                                 Floor Space in
Plant Location                                   Square Feet

Metal packaging manufacturing facilities:
Blytheville, Arkansas (leased)                         8,000
Springdale, Arkansas                                 290,000
Richmond, British Columbia                           204,000
Fairfield, California                                148,000
Golden, Colorado                                     330,000
Tampa, Florida                                       139,000
Columbus, Indiana                                    222,000
Saratoga Springs, New York                           283,000
Cincinnati, Ohio                                     478,000
Columbus, Ohio                                        50,000
Findlay, Ohio                                        450,000
Burlington, Ontario                                  309,000
Hamilton, Ontario                                    347,000
Whitby, Ontario                                      195,000
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (leased)                     81,000
Baie d'Urfe, Quebec                                  117,000
Chestnut Hill, Tennessee                              70,000
Conroe, Texas                                        284,000
Williamsburg, Virginia                               260,000
Weirton, West Virginia (leased)                      117,000
DeForest, Wisconsin                                   45,000

Plastic packaging manufacturing facilities:
Chino, California                                    228,000
Syracuse, New York                                   240,000
Reading, Pennsylvania                                 52,000


Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. offices are located in Broomfield, Colorado.
The Colorado-based operations of this business operate from a variety of company
owned and leased  facilities in Boulder,  Broomfield and Westminster,  Colorado,
which  together   aggregate   approximately   922,000  square  feet  of  office,
laboratory,  research and development,  engineering and test, and  manufacturing
space.  Other aerospace and technologies  operations are based in Dayton,  Ohio,
Warner Robins, Georgia, and San Diego, California.

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings

As  previously  reported,  the United  States  Environmental  Protection  Agency
("EPA") considers the company to be a Potentially Responsible Party ("PRP") with
respect to the Lowry Landfill ("site") located east of Denver, Colorado. On June
12, 1992,  the company was served with a lawsuit filed by the City and County of
Denver and Waste Management of Colorado,  Inc.,  seeking  contribution  from the
company and  approximately  38 other  companies.  The  company  filed its answer
denying  the  allegations  of the  Complaint.  On July 8, 1992,  the company was
served with a third-party  complaint filed by S. W. Shattuck  Chemical  Company,
Inc.,  seeking  contribution  from the company and other companies for the costs
associated  with  cleaning  up  the  Lowry  Landfill.  The  company  denied  the
allegations of the complaint.

On July 31, 1992,  the company  entered into a  settlement  and  indemnification
agreement  with  the  City and  County  of  Denver  ("Denver"),  Chemical  Waste
Management,  Inc.  and Waste  Management of Colorado,  Inc.,  pursuant  to which
Denver, Chemical Waste Management,  Inc., and Waste Management of Colorado, Inc.
(collectively  "Waste"),  have dismissed  their lawsuit  against the company and
Waste will defend,  indemnify,  and hold  harmless,  to the extent  agreed,  the
company  from claims and  lawsuits  brought by  governmental  agencies and other
parties  relating to actions  seeking  contributions  or remedial costs from the
company  for  the  cleanup  of the  site.  Several  other  companies  which  are
defendants  in the  above-referenced  lawsuits  have  already  entered  into the
settlement  and   indemnification   agreement  with  Denver  and  Waste.   Waste
Management,  Inc., has guaranteed the obligations of Chemical Waste  Management,
Inc.,  and  Waste  Management  of  Colorado,  Inc.  Waste  and  Denver  may seek
additional  payments from the company if the response  costs related to the site
exceed  $319  million.  The  company  might  also be  responsible  for  payments
(calculated  in 1992  dollars)  for any  additional  wastes  which may have been
disposed  of by the  company  at the site,  but which are  identified  after the
execution of the settlement agreement. At this time, there are no Lowry Landfill
actions in which the company is actively involved.  The company's information at
this time does not  indicate  that this  matter  will have a  material,  adverse
effect upon its financial condition.

As previously  reported,  the EPA issued in August 1988, an administrative order
to 12  companies,  including  the  company,  pursuant  to  Section  106A  of the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as
amended ("CERCLA"),  ordering them to remove certain abandoned drums and surface
waste at the AERR CO site located in Jefferson County,  Colorado. AERR CO, which
used the site to  recycle  wastes,  filed a  petition  with  the  United  States
Bankruptcy  Court in Denver,  Colorado,  seeking  protection from its creditors.
Several of the companies, including the company, are subject to the EPA's order,
and have cleaned up the site. The companies  negotiated with the EPA with regard
to its demand for the payment of  oversight  costs.  The  companies  and the EPA
entered into a settlement  agreement on or about  January 24, 1994,  pursuant to
which this matter was settled by payment of $488,867.41  by the  companies.  The
company's portion of this payment was $28,594.82.  The company's  information at
this time does not  indicate  that this  matter  will have a  material,  adverse
effect upon its financial condition.

As  previously  reported,  on or about August 28, 1990,  the company  received a
notice from the Department of  Environmental  Resources,  State of  Pennsylvania
("DER"),  that the company may have been  responsible  for disposing of waste at
the  Industrial  Solvents  and  Chemical  Company  site  located in York County,
Pennsylvania.  The company is cooperating  with several  hundred other companies
and the DER to resolve this matter.  In December 1993 the company entered into a
De Minimis Settlement  Agreement with certain other companies who have agreed to
indemnify the company with respect to claims arising out of the alleged disposal
of hazardous waste at the site in  consideration of the company paying an amount
not to exceed $11,031.70 to the indemnifying companies. The company has paid the
indemnifying companies in accordance with their agreement.

As previously  reported,  the company has been notified by Chrysler  Corporation
("Chrysler") that Chrysler,  Ford Motor Company,  and General Motors Corporation
have been named in a lawsuit filed in the U.S.  District Court in Reno,  Nevada,
by Jerome  Lemelson,  alleging  infringement  of three of his vision  inspection
system patents used by defendants.  One or more of the vision inspection systems
used by the defendants may have been supplied by the company's former Industrial
Systems  Division  or its  predecessors.  The suit seeks  injunctive  relief and
unspecified damages.  Chrysler has notified the Industrial Systems Division that
the Division may have indemnification  responsibilities to Chrysler. The company
has  responded to Chrysler that it appears at this time that the systems sold to
Chrysler by the company  either  were not covered by the  identified  patents or
were sold to  Chrysler  before the  patents  were  issued.  The  Magistrate  has
declared the patents of Lemelson are unenforceable because of the long delays in
prosecution.  Based on that information,  it is not expected that any obligation
to  Chrysler  because of the patents  referred to will have a material,  adverse
effect on the financial condition of the company.

As  previously  reported,  in  September  1992 the  company,  as a  fourth-party
defendant,  was served with a lawsuit  filed by Allied  Signal and certain other
fourth-party  plaintiffs  seeking  the  recovery of certain  response  costs and
contribution  under  CERCLA with  respect to the  alleged  disposal by its Metal
Decorating & Service  Division of hazardous  waste at the Cross Brothers Site in
Kankakee,  Illinois,  during the years 1961 to 1980. Also in September 1992, the
company was sued by another defendant, Krueger Ringier, Inc. In October 1992 the
Illinois Environmental  Protection Agency filed an action to join the company as
a  Defendant  seeking to recover the  State's  costs in removing  waste from the
Cross Brothers  Site.  The company has denied the  allegations of the complaints
and will defend these matters, but is unable at this time to predict the outcome
of the  litigation.  The company and certain other companies have entered into a
Consent  Decree with the EPA  pursuant to which the EPA  received  approximately
$2.9 million dollars and provided the companies with contribution protection and
a covenant not to sue.  Ball's share of the settlement  amount was  $858,493.60.
The  company  has been  indemnified  for the  settlement  payment  by  Alltrista
Corporation  which  owns the  Metal  Decorating  & Service  Division.  The Court
approved  the Consent  Decree on April 28, 1994.  The company and certain  other
companies  are  negotiating  with the State of  Illinois  to settle the  State's
alleged  claim to recover  costs  expended in the cleanup of the Cross  Brothers
Site.  Based upon the  information  available to the company at this time,  this
matter is not  likely to have a  material,  adverse  effect  upon its  financial
condition.

As previously reported, on October 12, 1992, the company received notice that it
may be a PRP for the  cleanup of the  Aqua-Tech  Environmental  site  located in
Greer, South Carolina.  The company is investigating this matter. Based upon the
limited  information  that the  company has at this time,  the company  does not
believe  this  matter will have a material,  adverse  effect upon its  financial
condition.

As  previously  reported,  on April 24,  1992,  the company was  notified by the
Muncie  Race Track  Steering  Committee  that the  company,  through  its former
Consumer Products Division and former Zinc Products Division,  may be a PRP with
respect to waste  disposed  at the Muncie  Race Track Site  located in  Delaware
County,  Indiana.  The company is currently  attempting  to identify  additional
information regarding this matter. The Steering Committee has requested that the
company pay 2 percent of the cleanup  costs which are  estimated at this time to
be $10 million. The company has declined to participate in the PRP group because
the company's records do not indicate the company contributed hazardous waste to
the site. Based upon the information  available to the company at this time, the
company does not believe that this matter will have a material,  adverse  effect
upon the company.

As previously reported,  the company was notified on June 19, 1989, that the EPA
has designated the company and numerous other companies as PRPs  responsible for
the cleanup of certain hazardous wastes that have been released at the Spectron,
Inc.,  site located in Elkton,  Maryland.  In December 1989, the company,  along
with  other  companies  whose  alleged  hazardous  waste  contributions  to  the
Spectron, Inc., site were considered to be de minimis, entered into a settlement
agreement with the EPA for cleanup costs incurred in connection with the removal
action of  aboveground  site areas.  By a letter dated  September 29, 1995,  the
company, along with the other above described PRPs, were notified by EPA that it
was negotiating with the large volume PRPs another consent order for performance
of  a  site  environmental   study  as  a  prerequisite  to  possible  long-term
remediation.  EPA and the large-volume PRPs have stated that a second de minimis
buyout for settlement of liability for performance of all environmental  studies
and site remediation is being formulated and an offer to participate therein has
been made to the company. Certain other PRPs have agreed with the EPA to perform
a groundwater study of the site. The company's information at this time does not
indicate  that  this  matter  will  have a  material,  adverse  effect  upon its
financial condition.

As previously  reported,  the company has received  information that it has been
named a PRP with respect to the Solvents  Recovery Site located in  Southington,
Connecticut. According to the information received by the company, it is alleged
that  the  company  contributed   approximately  .08816  percent  of  the  waste
contributed  to the site on a volumetric  basis.  The company is  attempting  to
identify additional information regarding this matter. The company has responded
and is investigating the accuracy of the total volume alleged to be attributable
to the company.  The company joined the PRP group during 1993. In May-June 1994,
the company  contributed  $2,445 as its share of the cost of a one-time critical
removal  action.  In  December  1994,  received  a  request  to  execute a trust
agreement for the company's  metal food container and specialty  products group.
In  February  1995,  the  company  executed a trust  agreement  whereby  certain
contributions  will be made to fund the administration of an ongoing work group.
Based on the information available to the company, at this time, the company now
believes  that  this  matter  will not have a  material,  adverse  effect on the
company.

On or about June 14,  1990,  the El Monte plant of  Ball-InCon  Glass  Packaging
Corp.  (renamed Ball Glass Container  Corporation on June 6, 1994, the assets of
which were sold in  September  1995 to a joint  venture with  Saint-Gobain,  now
known  as  Ball-Foster  Glass  Container  Co.,  L.L.C.),   a  then  wholly-owned
subsidiary  of  the  company,   received  a  general   notification  letter  and
information  request  from  EPA,  Region  IX,  notifying  Ball  Glass  Container
Corporation ("Ball  Glass")that it may have a potential  liability as defined in
Section  107(a) of CERCLA  incurred with respect to the San Gabriel Valley areas
1-4 Superfund sites located in Los Angeles County, California. The EPA requested
certain information from Ball Glass, and Ball Glass responded. After a period of
inactivity,  the federal and state  governments  proceeded to have performed the
remedial  investigation  study,  which will lead to a proposed cleanup.  In this
regard,  the California  Regional Water Quality Control Board requested El Monte
area industries to commence resampling  groundwater monitoring wells. Ball Glass
received  notice  from the City of El Monte that,  pursuant  to a proposed  city
economic  redevelopment plan, the City proposed to commence  groundwater cleanup
by a pump and treat remediation  process.  Ball Glass submitted  comments to the
City that,  while Ball Glass  approved  the  expenditures  of public  monies for
groundwater  remediation,  as  opposed  to  assessing  civil  liability  against
individual  industries,  Ball Glass requested further scientific  substantiation
that  treatment  at a city water well  adjacent  to the El Monte plant would not
increase  concentration of groundwater  contamination under the plant. A hearing
was held January 12, 1994,  by the El Monte  Community  Redevelopment  Agency to
discuss  various  methods  of  public  financing  available  to fund the  City's
proposed water treatment project. A potentially  responsible party ("PRP") group
organized and drafted a PRP group agreement,  which Ball Glass executed. The PRP
group  retained  an  environmental  engineering  firm to critique  the U.S.  EPA
studies and any proposed  remediation.  The group  continued  to  challenge  the
City's proposed groundwater  production well activation program until sufficient
hydrogeologic  studies have been done. Concern is that extraction of water for a
"pump and treat"  process  may draw  additional  concentrations  of  groundwater
pollutants  onto plant  property and other  surrounding  properties.  Ball Glass
retained a hydrogeologic  expert,  who has established to Ball Glass that it did
not contribute to the  groundwater  pollution;  rather,  such  pollution  flowed
underground  onto Ball Glass'  property.  The U.S. EPA issued  "special  notice"
letters  requiring  (i) the 17  recipients,  including  Ball  Glass,  to form an
official PRP group to deal with the EPA, (ii) the group to undertake and pay for
a remedial  investigation/feasibility  study,  and (iii) the  recipients  to pay
EPA's administrative costs. In response,  the group (i) organized more formally,
(ii)  requested  that EPA send  additional  "special  notice"  letters to former
landowners who are believed to be responsible for the pollution,  and (iii) held
its  initial  allocation  committee  meetings to discuss  allocation  methods to
attribute  cleanup  costs to various  PRPs.  Ball Glass  received  its letter on
October 17, 1994.  Ball Glass asserts that it is a de minimis party at the site.
At the  second  meeting  of the  allocation  committee,  the group  approved  an
allocation  method based on an equal,  pro rata sharing of all expenses to share
the costs to perform the  remedial  investigation/feasibility  study and any EPA
administrative  costs incurred as of the date of the special notice letters from
the EPA.  Subsequently,  the allocation committee reversed its allocation method
and has now recommended  group approval on an allocation method based upon fault
or  contribution  to pollution  levels.  On January 12, 1995, the group approved
such  allocation  method.  The group  submitted to the U.S. EPA its "good faith"
response  letter  outlining  how the group  proposes  to  perform  the  remedial
investigation study requested by the U.S. EPA.

The PRP  group  completed  negotiations  with  the EPA  over  the  terms  of the
administrative  consent order,  statement of work for the remedial investigation
phase of the  cleanup,  and the interim  allocation  arrangement  between  group
members to fund the  remedial  investigation.  The interim  allocation  approach
favors  the  company  in  that,  ultimately,   a  payment  will  be  based  upon
contribution to pollution.  The administrative consent order was executed by the
group and EPA.  The EPA also  accepted  the  statement  of work for the remedial
investigation  phase  of  the  cleanup.  The  group  retained  an  environmental
engineering consulting firm to perform the remedial investigation,  and executed
a license  agreement under which the consultant will use City Well No. 5 located
on  plant   property  to  sample  area   groundwater.   As  required  under  the
administrative   consent  order,   submitted  to  the  EPA  all  copies  of  all
environmental  studies conducted at the plant, the majority of which had already
been  furnished to the State of  California.  The  company's  general  liability
insurer agreed to provide cost of defense coverage in this matter.  EPA approved
the work plan, project management plan, and the data management plan portions of
the PRP group's proposed remedial  investigation/feasibility study. EPA believes
the sampling and analysis plan portion  contains  deficiencies and is requesting
that these be  addressed.  The PRP group  prepared  responses to EPA's  position
letter at its November 28, 1995, meeting. The company's environmental consulting
firm is  preparing  a request  for  presentation  to the group this  spring when
allocations of pollution contribution are decided. Based on the information,  or
lack  thereof,  available  to the  company at the present  time,  the company is
unable to express an opinion as to the actual  exposure  of the company for this
matter.

On July 27, 1994, Onex Corporation  ("Onex")  initiated  arbitration  before the
International Chamber of Commerce,  alleging that the company was in breach of a
joint venture  agreement dated September 15, 1988.  Onex's demand  represented a
claim against the company for approximately $30 million.  The company denied the
allegations  of Onex's  complaint.  On August 1,  1995,  the  Arbitral  Tribunal
decided the case in favor of Ball Corporation. The parties had previously agreed
to be bound by the decision of the Tribunal.

On March 8, 1994, the company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Heekin Can, Inc.,
were served with a lawsuit by Harlan Yoder, an employee of Heekin Can, Inc., and
his spouse seeking  $6,500,000 jointly and severally as the result of an alleged
injury to Mr. Yoder on or about April 26, 1993.  Mr. Yoder  sustained a crushing
injury to his left hand while operating machinery at the Heekin Can, Inc., metal
container manufacturing plant located at Columbus,  Ohio. The company and Heekin
Can, Inc.,  deny the material  allegations of the complaint filed by the Yoders.
This matter has now been settled.

In March of 1992, William Hallahan, an employee of the company's metal container
plant in  Saratoga  Springs,  New  York,  filed a  workers'  compensation  claim
alleging that he suffers from a form of leukemia that was caused by his exposure
to certain  chemicals  used in the plant.  The company  denied the  charge,  and
hearings on the matter were held before the Workers'  Compensation  Board of the
State of New  York.  Cross-examination  of Mr.  Hallahan's  witnesses  continued
during 1995.  Based on the information  available to the company,  at this time,
the company  now  believes  that this  matter will not have a material,  adverse
effect on the company.

On November 30, 1995, the U.S.  Justice  Department  filed a lawsuit in the U.S.
District  Court for the  Eastern  District  of  Michigan on behalf of the United
States of America  against Erie Coatings and Chemicals,  Inc., and certain other
defendants   including  the  company.  The  lawsuit  alleges  that  some  thirty
generators of hazardous  waste,  including the company's metal container  group,
disposed of hazardous  waste at the Erie  Coatings  and  Chemicals,  Inc.,  site
located in Erie, Michigan.  The company is attempting to investigate this matter
and to  determine  the nature and amount of  remedial  costs the  government  is
seeking to recoup.  Based on the information  available to the company,  at this
time,  the company is unable to express an opinion as to the actual  exposure of
the company for this matter.

On January 5, 1996, the company was served with a lawsuit filed by an individual
named Tangee E.  Daniels,  on behalf of herself and two minor  children and four
other  plaintiffs,  alleging that the company's metal container group a/k/a Ball
Corporation and over fifty other defendants  disposed of certain hazardous waste
at the hazardous waste disposal site operated by Gibraltar  Chemical  Resources,
Inc.,  located in Winona,  Smith  County,  Texas.  The lawsuit also alleges that
American Ecology Corp.,  America Ecology Management Corp., Mobley  Environmental
Services,  Inc.,  and  the  managers  of  the  site  for  Gibraltar,  failed  to
appropriately  manage the waste  disposed of or treated at the  Gibraltar  site,
resulting  in  release  of  hazardous  substances  into  the  environment.   The
plaintiffs allege that they have been denied the enjoyment of their property and
have  sustained  personal  and bodily  injury and  damages due to the release of
hazardous  waste and toxic  substances  into the  environment  caused by all the
defendants.  The plaintiffs allege numerous causes of action under state law and
common  law.  Plaintiffs  also seek to recover  damages for past,  present,  and
future medical treatment; mental and emotional anguish and trauma; loss of wages
and earning capacity;  and physical impairment,  as well as punitive damages and
prejudgment  interest in  unspecified  amounts.  The  company  intends to defend
against this matter. Based on the limited information  available to the company,
at this  time,  the  company  is unable to  express  an opinion as to the actual
exposure of the company for this matter.

On  February  16,  1996,  the  company  was  served  with a lawsuit  filed by an
individual  named Marti  Williams,  individually,  and as next friend of Michael
Williams,  and Linda Smiley,  individually and as next friend of Courtney Smiley
et al., alleging that the company's metal container group a/k/a Ball Corporation
and over fifty  other  defendants  disposed  of certain  hazardous  waste at the
hazardous waste disposal site operated by Gibraltar  Chemical  Resources,  Inc.,
located in Winona,  Smith County,  Texas. The lawsuit also alleges that American
Ecology Corp., America Ecology Management Corp., Mobley Environmental  Services,
Inc., and the managers of the site for Gibraltar, failed to appropriately manage
the waste disposed of or treated at the Gibraltar site,  resulting in release of
hazardous  substances into the  environmental.  The plaintiffs  allege that they
have been denied the enjoyment of their property and have sustained personal and
bodily  injury  and  damages  due to the  release of  hazardous  waste and toxic
substances  into the environment  caused by all the  defendants.  The plaintiffs
allege numerous causes of action under state law and common law. Plaintiffs also
seek to recover damages for past, present, and future medical treatment;  mental
and  emotional  anguish and  trauma;  loss of wages and  earning  capacity;  and
physical  impairment,  as well as punitive  damages and prejudgment  interest in
unspecified amounts. The company intends to defend against this matter. Based on
the limited  information  available to the company, at this time, the company is
unable to express an opinion as to the actual  exposure  of the company for this
matter.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders

There  were no  matters  submitted  to the  security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of 1995.


                                     Part II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

Ball  Corporation  common  stock  (BLL) is traded on the New York,  Midwest  and
Pacific Stock Exchanges. There were 8,944 common shareholders of record on March
1, 1996.

Other information required by Item 5 appears under the caption, "Quarterly Stock
Prices  and  Dividends,"  in the  1995  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The  information  required by Item 6 for the five years ended December 31, 1995,
appearing in the section titled,  "Five Year Review of Selected Financial Data,"
of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations" of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated  herein by
reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The  consolidated  financial  statements  and notes  thereto of the 1995  Annual
Report to  Shareholders,  together with the report  thereon of Price  Waterhouse
LLP, dated January 23, 1996, are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
         Financial Disclosure

There were no matters required to be reported under this item.


                                    Part III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the company are as follows:

 1.   George A. Sissel, 59, President and Chief Executive  Officer,  since April
      1995; Acting President and Chief Executive Officer, 1994-1995; Senior Vice
      President,  Corporate  Affairs;  Corporate  Secretary and General Counsel,
      1993-1995; Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel,
      1987-1992;  Vice  President,  Corporate  Secretary  and  General  Counsel,
      1981-1987.

 2.   R. David Hoover, 50, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
      since  July 1995;  Senior  Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer,
      1992-1995; Vice President and Treasurer,  1988-1992;  Assistant Treasurer,
      1987-1988; Vice President, Finance and Administration, Technical Products,
      1985-1987; Vice President, Finance and Administration, Management Services
      Division, 1983-1985.

3.    Duane E. Emerson, 58,  Senior  Vice  President  and  Chief  Administrative
      Officer,   since   July  1995;   Senior  Vice  President,  Administration,
      1985-1995;  Vice President, Administration, 1980-1985.

 4.   Donovan B. Hicks,  58, Group Vice President;  President,  Ball Aerospace &
      Technologies  Corp.,  since August 1995; Group Vice President;  President,
      Aerospace  and  Communications  Group,  1988-1995;  Group Vice  President,
      Technical   Products,   1980-1988;   President,   Ball  Brothers  Research
      Corporation/Division, 1978-1980.

 5.   David B. Sheldon,  54,  Executive Vice  President,  Packaging  Operations,
      since October 1995;  Executive Vice  President,  North American  Packaging
      Operations,   1995;  Group  Vice  President;   President,  Metal  Beverage
      Container  Group,  1993-1995;  Group Vice President,  Packaging  Products,
      1992-1993;  Vice  President  and Group  Executive,  Sales  and  Marketing,
      Packaging Products Group,  1988-1992;  Vice President and Group Executive,
      Sales and Marketing, Metal Container Group, 1985-1988.

 6.   Richard E. Durbin, 54,  Vice President,  Information Services, since April
      1985;  Corporate  Director,  Information  Services,  1983-1985;  Corporate
      Director, Data Processing, 1981-1983.

 7.   Albert R. Schlesinger,  54,  Vice President and Controller,  since January
      1987; Assistant Controller, 1976-1986.

 8.   Raymond J. Seabrook, 45,  Vice President and Treasurer, since August 1992;
      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Ball Packaging Products
      Canada, Inc., 1988-1992.

 9.   Harold L. Sohn, 50, Vice President, Corporate Relations, since March 1993;
      Director, Industry Affairs, Packaging Products, 1988-1993.

10.   David A. Westerlund,  45, Vice President,  Human Resources, since December
      1994; Senior Director, Corporate Human Resources, July 1994-December 1994;
      Vice President,  Human Resources and Administration,  Ball Glass Container
      Corporation,  1988-1994;  Vice  President,  Human  Resources,  Ball  Glass
      Container Corporation, 1987-1988.

Other  information  required by Item 10 appearing  under the caption,  "Director
Nominees and Continuing  Directors," on pages 3 through 5 and under the caption,
"Compliance  with Section 16(a) of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934" on page
15 of the company's proxy statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A dated March
18, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.   Executive Compensation

The  information  required by Item 11 appearing  under the  caption,  "Executive
Compensation,"  on pages 7 through 14 of the  company's  proxy  statement  filed
pursuant to  Regulation  14A dated March 18,  1996,  is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The  information  required  by Item 12  appearing  under  the  caption,  "Voting
Securities and Principal  Shareholders," on pages 1 and 2 of the company's proxy
statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A dated March 18, 1996, is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information  required by Item 13 appearing under the caption,  "Relationship
with Independent Public Accountants and Certain Other  Relationships and Related
Transactions,"  on page 15 of the company's  proxy  statement  filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A dated March 18, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.


                                     Part IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a) (1) Financial Statements:

        The  following   documents   included  in  the  1995  Annual  Report  to
        Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8:

           Consolidated  statement of (loss)  income - Years ended  December 31,
           1995, 1994 and 1993

           Consolidated balance sheet - December 31, 1995 and 1994

           Consolidated statement of cash flows - Years ended December 31, 1995,
           1994 and 1993

           Consolidated  statement  of changes in  shareholders'  equity - Years
           ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

           Notes to consolidated financial statements

           Report of independent accountants

    (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

        There  were  no  financial statement schedules required under this item.

    (3) Exhibits:

        See the Index to Exhibits  which appears at the end of this document and
        which is incorporated by reference herein.

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K

        Amendment  No. 1 to the Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  September 15,
        1995  to  include  the  financial   statements  and  proforma  financial
        information omitted from the original filing, November 29, 1995.


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        BALL CORPORATION
                                        (Registrant)
                                        By:  /s/ George A. Sissel
                                             ---------------------------------
                                             George A. Sissel, President and
                                               Chief Executive Officer
                                             March 29, 1996

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed by the following  persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated below.

(1)   Principal Executive Officer:
                                                   President and
      /s/  George A. Sissel                        Chief Executive Officer
      --------------------------------------       March 29, 1996
      George A. Sissel

(2)   Principal Financial Accounting Officer:
                                                   Executive Vice President and
      /s/  R. David Hoover                         Chief Financial Officer
      --------------------------------------       March 29, 1996
      R. David Hoover

(3)   Controller:

      /s/  Albert R. Schlesinger                   Vice President and Controller
      --------------------------------------       March 29, 1996
      Albert R. Schlesinger                        

(4)   A Majority of the Board of Directors:

      /s/  Frank A. Bracken                *       Director
      --------------------------------------       March 29, 1996
      Frank A. Bracken

      /s/  Howard M. Dean                  *       Director
      --------------------------------------       March 29, 1996
      Howard M. Dean

      /s/  John T. Hackett                 *       Director
      --------------------------------------       March 29, 1996
      John T. Hackett

      /s/  John F. Lehman                  *       Director
      --------------------------------------       March 29, 1996
      John F. Lehman

      /s/  Jan Nicholson                   *       Director
      --------------------------------------       March 29, 1996
      Jan Nicholson

      /s/  Alvin Owsley                    *       Chairman of the Board and
      --------------------------------------       Director
      Alvin Owsley                                 March 29, 1996
                                                   

      /s/  George A. Sissel                *       President and Chief Executive
      --------------------------------------       Officer and Director
      George A. Sissel                             March 29, 1996

      /s/  W. Thomas Stephens              *       Director
      --------------------------------------       March 29, 1996
      W. Thomas Stephens

      /s/  William P. Stiritz              *       Director
      --------------------------------------       March 29, 1996
      William P. Stiritz

*By George A. Sissel as Attorney-in-Fact pursuant to a Limited Power of Attorney
executed by the directors  listed above,  which Power of Attorney has been filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

                                            By:  /s/ George A. Sissel
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 George A. Sissel
                                                 As Attorney-In-Fact
                                                 March 29, 1996


                        Ball Corporation and Subsidiaries
                           Annual Report on Form 10-K
                      For the year ended December 31, 1995

                                Index to Exhibits


      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
       3.(i)     Amended  Articles  of  Incorporation  as of  November  26, 1990
                 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to the Current Report on
                 Form 8-K dated November 30, 1990) filed December 13, 1990.

       3.(ii)    Bylaws of Ball  Corporation as amended  January 25, 1994 (filed
                 by incorporation by reference to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1993) filed March 29, 1994.

       4.1       Ball  Corporation and its  subsidiaries  have no long-term debt
                 instruments in which the total amount of securities  authorized
                 under any  instrument  exceeds  10% of the total  assets of the
                 registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated  basis.  Ball
                 Corporation  hereby  agrees to furnish a copy of any  long-term
                 debt instruments upon the request of the Commission.

       4.2       Dividend  distribution  payable  to  shareholders  of record on
                 August 4, 1986, of one preferred  stock purchase right for each
                 outstanding  share of common  stock under the Rights  Agreement
                 dated as of July 22,  1986,  and as amended by the  Amended and
                 Restated Rights Agreement dated as of January 24, 1990, and the
                 First  Amendment,  dated  as of  July  27,  1990,  between  the
                 corporation  and The First  National Bank of Chicago  (filed by
                 incorporation   by  reference  to  the  Form  8-A  Registration
                 Statement,  No. 1-7349, dated July 25, 1986, as amended by Form
                 8,  Amendment  No. 1, dated  January 24,  1990,  and by Form 8,
                 Amendment No. 2, dated July 27, 1990) filed August 2, 1990.

      10.1       1975 Stock Option Plan as amended,  1980 Stock Option and Stock
                 Appreciation  Rights  Plan,  as amended,  1983 Stock Option and
                 Stock  Appreciation  Rights  Plan  (filed by  incorporation  by
                 reference to the Form S-8 Registration Statement,  No. 2-82925)
                 filed April 27, 1983.

      10.2       Restricted Stock Plan  (filed by incorporation by  reference to
                 the  Form S-8 Registration Statement, No. 2-61252) filed May 2,
                 1978.

      10.3       1988  Restricted  Stock  Plan and 1988  Stock  Option and Stock
                 Appreciation  Rights Plan (filed by  incorporation by reference
                 to the Form S-8  Registration  Statement,  No.  33-21506) filed
                 April 27, 1988.

      10.4       Ball Corporation Deferred Incentive Compensation Plan (filed by
                 incorporation  by reference  to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1987) filed March 25, 1988.


      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
      10.5       Ball  Corporation 1986 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.6       Ball  Corporation 1988 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.7       Ball  Corporation 1989 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.8       Form of Severance  Agreement  which exists  between the company
                 and its executive officers (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended
                 October 2, 1994) filed November 15, 1994.

      10.9       An agreement dated September 15, 1988, between Ball Corporation
                 and Onex  Corporation to form a joint venture  company known as
                 Ball-Onex   Packaging  Corp.,   since  renamed  Ball  Packaging
                 Products  Canada,  Inc. (filed by incorporation by reference to
                 the  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  December 8, 1988) filed
                 December 23, 1988.

      10.10      Stock  Purchase  Agreement  dated as of June 29, 1989,  between
                 Ball Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A.  (filed by incorporation
                 by  reference  to the  Quarterly  Report  on  Form 10-Q for the
                 quarter ended July 2, 1989) filed August 15, 1989.

      10.11      Ball Corporation 1986 Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors,
                 as  amended  October  27,  1987  (filed  by   incorporation  by
                 reference to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1990) filed April 1, 1991.

      10.12      1991  Restricted Stock  Plan for  Nonemployee Directors of Ball
                 Corporation  (filed by  incorporation by  reference to the Form
                 S-8 Registration Statement, No. 33-40199) filed April 26, 1991.

      10.13      Agreement of Purchase and Sale,  dated April 11, 1991,  between
                 Ball  Corporation  and  the  term  lenders  of  Ball  Packaging
                 Products  Canada,  Inc.,  Citibank  Canada,  as Agent (filed by
                 incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                 for the quarter ended March 31, 1991) filed May 15, 1991.

      10.14      Ball  Corporation  Economic Value Added Incentive  Compensation
                 Plan dated January 1, 1994 (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December
                 31, 1994) filed March 29, 1995.


      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
      10.15      Agreement  and  Plan of Merger among Ball Corporation, Ball Sub
                 Corp. and Heekin Can, Inc. dated as of December 1, 1992, and as
                 amended  as of  December 28, 1992  (filed  by  incorporation by
                 reference  to  the  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-4, No.
                 33-58516) filed February 19, 1993.

      10.16      Distribution  Agreement  between Ball Corporation and Alltrista
                 (filed  by   incorporation   by  reference  to  the   Alltrista
                 Corporation  Form 8,  Amendment No. 3 to Form 10, No.  0-21052,
                 dated December 31, 1992) filed March 17, 1993.

      10.17      1993 Stock Option Plan (filed by incorporation by reference  to
                 the  Form S-8 Registration Statement, No. 33-61986) filed April
                 30, 1993.

      10.18      Retirement  Agreement  dated June 17, 1994,  between Delmont A.
                 Davis and Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July
                 3, 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.19      Ball-InCon Glass Packaging Corp. Deferred Compensation Plan, as
                 amended July 1, 1994  (filed by  incorporation by  reference to
                 the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.20      Retention  Agreement  dated June 22, 1994,  between  Donovan B.
                 Hicks and Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July
                 3, 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.21      Ball Corporation  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (filed
                 by  incorporation  by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form
                 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 1994) filed  November 15,
                 1994.

      10.22      Ball  Corporation  Split Dollar Life  Insurance  Plan (filed by
                 incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                 for the quarter ended October 2, 1994) filed November 15, 1994.

      10.23      Ball  Corporation  Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan, dated October
                 25, 1994 (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference to the Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994) filed
                 March 29, 1995.

      10.24      Asset  Purchase  Agreement  dated June 26,  1995,  among Foster
                 Ball,  L.L.C.  (since renamed  Ball-Foster Glass Container Co.,
                 L.L.C.),  Ball Glass Container Corporation and Ball Corporation
                 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to the Current Report on
                 Form 8-K dated September 15, 1995) filed September 29, 1995.


      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
      10.25      Foster Ball, L.L.C.  (since renamed Ball-Foster Glass Container
                 Co., L.L.C.) Amended and  Restated  Limited  Liability  Company
                 Agreement  dated  June 26, 1995, among  Saint-Gobain Holdings I
                 Corp., BG Holdings I, Inc. and  BG Holdings II, Inc.  (filed by
                 incorporation  by  reference to the  Current Report on Form 8-K
                 dated September 15, 1995) filed September 29, 1995.

      11.1       Statement   re:  Computation  of  Earnings  Per  Share.  (Filed
                 herewith.)

      13.1       Ball Corporation 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders (The Annual
                 Report  to  Shareholders,  except  for those  portions  thereof
                 incorporated by reference,  is furnished for the information of
                 the  Commission  and is not to be deemed  filed as part of this
                 Form 10-K.) (Filed herewith.)

      18.1       Letter   re:   Change  in   Accounting  Principles   (filed  by
                 incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                 for  the quarterly period ended July 2, 1995) filed  August 15,
                 1995.

      21.1       List of Subsidiaries of Ball Corporation.  (Filed herewith.)

      23.1       Consent of Independent Accountants. (Filed herewith.)

      24.1       Limited Power of Attorney.  (Filed herewith.)

      27.1       Financial Data Schedule.  (Filed herewith.)

      99.1       Specimen Certificate of Common Stock (filed by incorporation by
                 reference to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1979) filed March 24, 1980.



