
10-K
FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

           ( X ) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

          ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
       For the transition period from ________________ to ________________
                          Commission File Number 1-7349
                                Ball Corporation
                           State of Indiana 35-0160610

                      345 South High Street, P.O. Box 2407
                           Muncie, Indiana 47307-0407
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (765) 747-6100
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             Securities  registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange
              Title of each class                     on which registered
       ---------------------------------        --------------------------------
        Common Stock, without par                 New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                                  Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                                     Pacific Exchange, Inc.

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

   Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  registrant  (1) has filed all  reports
   required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
   1934  during the  preceding  12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the
   registrant  was required to file such  reports),  and (2) has been subject to
   such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES [ X ] NO [ ]

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of  delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item
   405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,  to
   the best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
   statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
   amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

   The  aggregate  market  value of voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
   registrant was $984.2 million based upon the closing market price on March 2,
   1998 (excluding Series B ESOP Convertible  Preferred Stock of the registrant,
   which  series is not publicly  traded and which has an aggregate  liquidation
   preference of $59.9 million).

   Number of shares outstanding as of the latest practicable date.

                      Class                         Outstanding at March 2, 1998
       ----------------------------------           ----------------------------
         Common Stock, without par value                     30,320,402


                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.  Annual Report to  Shareholders  for the year ended December 31, 1997, to the
    extent  indicated  in  Parts  I,  II,  and  IV.  Except  as  to  information
    specifically incorporated,  the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders is not to
    be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K Annual Report.

2. Proxy statement filed with the Commission dated March 16, 1998, to the extent
   indicated in Part III.


                                     PART I

Item 1.    Business

   Ball Corporation is an Indiana corporation organized in 1880 and incorporated
   in 1922.  Its  principal  executive  offices  are  located  at 345 South High
   Street, Muncie, Indiana 47305-2326.  On February 4, 1998, Ball announced that
   it would  relocate its corporate  headquarters  to an existing  company-owned
   building  in  Broomfield,  Colorado.  This  move is  expected  to be  largely
   completed  by the end of 1998.  The terms  "Ball" and the  "Company"  as used
   herein refer to Ball Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

   Ball  is a  manufacturer  of  metal  and  plastic  packaging,  primarily  for
   beverages and foods,  and a supplier of aerospace and other  technologies and
   services to commercial and governmental customers.

   The  following  sections of the 1997 Annual  Report to  Shareholders  contain
   financial and other information  concerning Company business developments and
   operations,  and are  incorporated  herein  by  reference:  the  notes to the
   financial   statements    "Discontinued    Operations,"   "Business   Segment
   Information,"  "Dispositions  and Other,"  "Acquisitions,"  and "Management's
   Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

                          Recent Business Developments

   The Company took a number of actions during 1997 which have affected the core
   business,  the  most  significant  of which  are  summarized  below.  Further
   information  regarding  these  actions and other  actions over the last three
   years  are  found in the notes to the  financial  statements  "Acquisitions,"
   "Dispositions  and  Other,"  "Discontinued   Operations,"  and  "Management's
   Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" all
   within the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.

   Acquisition of M.C. Packaging (Hong Kong) Limited
   In early 1997,  FTB  Packaging  Limited  (FTB  Packaging),  a  majority-owned
   subsidiary of Ball, acquired approximately 75 percent of M.C. Packaging (Hong
   Kong)  Limited  (M.C.  Packaging),  previously  held by Lam Soon (Hong  Kong)
   Limited and the general public for a total  purchase  price of  approximately
   $179 million.

   PET Container Business
   In the third quarter of 1997, the Company acquired certain PET  (polyethylene
   terephthalate)  container  assets from Brunswick  Container  Corporation.  In
   connection with the acquisition, the Company completed construction and began
   operating  a new plant in Delran,  New  Jersey,  to supply a large East Coast
   filler of soft drinks and other  customers,  and closed  small  manufacturing
   facilities in Pennsylvania and Virginia.



           Other Information Pertaining to the Business of the Company

   The  Company's  businesses  are  comprised  of two segments:   packaging, and
   aerospace and technologies.

   Packaging Segment

   Ball's  principal  business is the  manufacture  and sale of rigid  packaging
   products,  containers  and materials  primarily for use in packaging food and
   beverage  products and is reported  within the packaging  segment.  Packaging
   products are sold in highly  competitive  markets,  primarily based on price,
   service,  and quality. The majority of the Company's packaging sales are made
   directly to relatively few major companies having leading market positions in
   packaged food and beverage  businesses.  Packaging  segment sales to PepsiCo,
   Inc., and affiliates  represented  approximately  12 percent of  consolidated
   1997 net sales.  Worldwide  sales to all bottlers of Pepsi-Cola and Coca-Cola
   branded  beverages  comprised  approximately  36 percent of consolidated  net
   sales in 1997.  Ball believes that its competitors  exhibit similar  customer
   concentrations.

   The rigid  packaging  business is capital  intensive,  requiring  significant
   investments  in  machinery  and  equipment.  Profitability  is  sensitive  to
   production  volumes,  the costs of certain raw  materials,  such as aluminum,
   steel and plastic resin, and labor.

   Raw  materials  used by the  Company's  packaging  businesses  are  generally
   available  from  several  sources.  Ball has secured  what it considers to be
   adequate supplies of raw materials and is not experiencing any shortage.  The
   Company's  manufacturing  facilities are dependent,  in varying degrees, upon
   the  availability  of process  energy,  such as natural gas and  electricity.
   While  certain  of these  energy  sources  may become  increasingly  in short
   supply,  or subject to government  allocation  or excise  taxes,  the Company
   cannot  predict  the  effects,  if any,  of such  occurrences  on its  future
   operations.

   Research  and  development  efforts  in  these  businesses  seek  to  improve
   manufacturing  efficiencies  and lower unit costs,  principally  raw material
   costs,  by reducing the material  content of  containers  while  improving or
   maintaining other physical properties such as material strength. In addition,
   research and development  efforts are directed towards the development of new
   sizes and types of both metal and  plastic  beverage  containers  such as the
   innovative RheoformTM shaped metal beverage cans.

   The operations and products within this segment are discussed below:

   North American Metal Beverage Containers

   Metal beverage  containers and ends  represent  Ball's largest  product line,
   accounting  for  approximately  46  percent of 1997  consolidated  net sales.
   Decorated   two-piece   aluminum   beverage   cans  are   produced  by  seven
   manufacturing  facilities in the U.S. and two facilities in Canada;  ends are
   produced  within two of the U.S.  facilities.  Metal beverage  containers are
   sold  primarily  to brewers and fillers of  carbonated  soft drinks and other
   beverages under long-term supply or annual  contracts.  Sales volume of metal
   beverage  cans and ends tends to be highest  during the period  between April
   and September.

   The Company  estimates  that 17 percent of the total  aluminum  beverage cans
   shipped in the U.S.  and Canada in 1997 were  shipped  by Ball.  The  Company
   estimates that its four larger competitors  together represent  substantially
   all of the remaining market.

   The U.S. metal beverage  container  industry  experienced  demand growth at a
   compounded  annual rate of approximately  2.8 percent during the last decade,
   with much of that growth in the soft drink market  segment.  In 1995 aluminum
   suppliers changed the pricing formula for aluminum can sheet to a price based
   on ingot plus conversion costs, in contrast to the prior practice of annually
   negotiated  prices.  As a result,  the cost of aluminum  can sheet  increased
   significantly  and was reflected in higher beverage can selling prices. It is
   believed that the soft drink industry responded by reducing its promotions of
   products packaged in aluminum containers in 1995, and, coupled with increased
   customer  purchases  in the  fourth  quarter of 1994 in  anticipation  of the
   higher can prices,  resulted in lower can  shipments  for the  industry by an
   estimated 5 percent. Shipments to the beer industry were also affected by the
   price increase, the accelerated shipments in 1994, and the predominant use of
   glass  containers  for  introduction  of new  products.  In  1997  and  1996,
   industry-wide  shipments increased approximately 1.6 percent and 1.0 percent,
   respectively.

   In Canada,  metal  beverage  containers  have  captured  significantly  lower
   percentages of the packaged beverage market than in the U.S., particularly in
   the packaged beer market,  in which the market share of metal  containers has
   been hindered by trade barriers and restrictive taxes within Canada.

   Beverage  container industry  production  capacity in the U.S. and Canada has
   exceeded  demand in the last several  years,  which has created a competitive
   environment.  While  aluminum can sheet costs are largely  passed  through to
   customers via formula pricing, it appears that pricing as well as quality and
   service will continue to be major competitive factors.

   North American Metal Food Containers

   Two-piece and three-piece  steel food containers are manufactured in the U.S.
   and Canada and sold  primarily to food  processors in the  Midwestern  United
   States and Canada. In 1997 metal food container sales comprised approximately
   20 percent of consolidated  net sales.  Sales volume of metal food containers
   tends to be  highest  from  June  through  October  as a result  of  seasonal
   vegetable packs.

   Recent  consolidations  within the commercial  food  container  industry have
   reduced  the  number  of  competitors.  Currently,  Ball  has  one  principal
   competitor located in Canada and two primary  competitors located in the U.S.
   metal food  container  market.  Approximately  34 billion steel food cans are
   shipped  in the  U.S.  and  Canada  each  year,  more  than 4.7  billion,  or
   approximately 14 percent, by Ball in 1997.

   In the food  container  industry,  manufacturing  capacity  in North  America
   significantly exceeds market demand,  resulting in a highly price-competitive
   market.  During  1996,  Ball  completed  the closure of three  facilities,  a
   facility  in  Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania,  which  provided  metal  coating and
   slitting services to the metal food and specialty  products  businesses,  and
   food can manufacturing facilities in Columbus, Indiana and Red Deer, Alberta,
   Canada.



   North American Plastic Containers

   PET  packaging  is  Ball's  newest product line,  with 1997 net sales of $153
   million.  A full-scale pilot line, research and development center in Smyrna,
   Georgia,  was completed in 1995.  During 1996  multi-line  production  plants
   in Chino,  California,  and  Baldwinsville,  New  York,  became  operational.
   A fourth facility began full production in the first quarter of 1997 in Ames,
   Iowa. In connection with the acquisition  of  certain   manufacturing  assets
   from    Brunswick  Container  Corporation,  the Company began operating a new
   plant in   Delran,  New Jersey  in  the second half of  1997 and closed small
   manufacturing facilities in Pennsylvania and Virginia.

   Demand for  containers  made of PET has  increased in the beverage  packaging
   market and is expected to increase in the food packaging market with improved
   technology and adequate supplies of PET resin. While PET beverage  containers
   compete  against  both metal and glass,  the  historical  increase in the PET
   market share has come primarily at the expense of glass  containers.  In 1994
   the domestic plastic  container  market reached $5.5 billion,  surpassing the
   size of the glass container  market for the first time. The latest  available
   projections for the year 2000 (based on estimated pounds of resin used) range
   from an increase of almost 55 percent to 90 percent compared to 1996.

   Competition  in this  industry  includes two national  suppliers  and several
   regional  suppliers  and  self-manufacturers  (primarily  Coca-Cola).  Price,
   service and quality  are  deciding  competitive  factors.  Increasingly,  the
   ability  to  produce  customized,  differentiated  plastic  containers  is an
   important competitive factor.

   Prior to 1996,  the demand for PET resins in North America  exceeded  supply.
   However,   the  North   American  PET  resin   market  experienced  increased
   production  levels  in 1996 resulting  in  capacity  exceeding  demand.    As
   a result, resin prices  had  decreased  significantly  during 1996 which  was
   reflected  in  lower sales dollars, as lower resin prices were passed on   to
   customers.   In 1997,  however,  PET resin prices increased compared to 1996,
   and were largely passed on to customers.

   Ball has  secured  long-term  customer  supply  agreements,  principally  for
   carbonated beverage  containers.  Other products such as juice, water, liquor
   and food containers are key elements in expanding the business.

   International Packaging Operations

   As part of Ball's initiative to expand its presence internationally, in early
   1997 the Company,  through FTB Packaging,  Ball's majority-owned  subsidiary,
   acquired a controlling  interest in M.C.  Packaging.  M.C. Packaging produces
   two-piece aluminum beverage  containers,  three-piece steel beverage and food
   containers,  aerosol cans,  plastic  packaging,  metal crowns and printed and
   coated metal.

   With  the  acquisition  of M.C.  Packaging,  FTB  Packaging,  is the  largest
   beverage can manufacturer in China, supplying more than half of the two-piece
   aluminum  beverage  cans used in China.  Capacity has grown rapidly in China,
   resulting in a supply/demand  imbalance which is expected  to  be  relatively
   short term. As per capita consumption in China is significantly lower than in
   more developed countries and per  capita  income  in China is  rising,  there
   is  significant  potential for strong  demand  growth.  In the interim,  Ball
   has   elected  to delay  start-up of two  facilities  originally  expected to
   become operational in 1998.

   FTB Packaging and M.C. Packaging operate more than 20 manufacturing  ventures
   in  China.   The   Beijing   manufacturing   facility  is  one  of  the  most
   technologically   advanced  plants  in  China  with  the  fastest  line-speed
   capacity.  FTB Packaging's 25 percent owned affiliate,  Sanshui Jianlibao FTB
   Packaging Limited  (Sanshui),  is the largest can  manufacturing  facility in
   China in terms of production capacity.  For more information on operations in
   China, see Item 2, Properties, and Exhibit 21.1, Subsidiary List.

   The Company also provides manufacturing technology and assistance to numerous
   can  manufacturers  around the world.  The Company also has a minority equity
   position in a joint venture that manufactures  two-piece beverage cans in the
   Philippines.  In 1995, the Company announced the formation of a joint venture
   with BBM Participacoes  S.A. to produce  two-piece  aluminum cans and ends in
   Brazil.  The Company and BBM  Participacoes  S.A. each own 50 percent of this
   venture.  The affiliate in Brazil has a can plant which became operational in
   early 1997 and an end plant which became  operational  in late 1997. In early
   1996,  the Company  announced a joint  venture  with  Standard Can Company of
   Bangkok,  Thailand, to build a two-piece can and end plant in Thailand.  Ball
   and Standard Can each own 40 percent; the remaining interest is held by local
   investors.  Ball's  Thailand  affiliate has a plant which became  operational
   during the second quarter of 1997.

   Aerospace and Technologies Segment

   The  aerospace  and  technologies  segment  consists of two  divisions:   the
   Aerospace  Systems  Division,  and  the  Telecommunication Products Division.
   Sales in the aerospace and technologies segment  accounted for  approximately
   17 percent of consolidated net sales in 1997.

   The  majority  of  the  Company's  aerospace  business  involves  work  under
   relatively  short-term  contracts  (generally  one to  five  years)  for  the
   National Aeronautics and Space Administration  (NASA), the U.S. Department of
   Defense  (DoD) and  foreign  governments.  Contracts  funded  by the  various
   agencies of the federal  government  represented  approximately 87 percent of
   this  segment's  sales in 1997.  Overall,  competition  within the  aerospace
   business is expected to intensify.  While the  government  budget for defense
   and NASA has exhibited a downward trend in recent years,  management believes
   the NASA budget has  stabilized  and that within the Company's  niche markets
   defense  spending  will  increase.  With the  consolidation  of the industry,
   competition for business will remain intense.

   Aerospace Systems Division

   A  full-service  aerospace and defense  organization,  the Aerospace  Systems
   Division provides hardware, software and services to a wide range of U.S. and
   international customers,  with an emphasis on space science,  environment and
   Earth sciences, defense, manned missions and exploration.

   Space systems include the design, manufacture and test of satellites,  ground
   systems,  launch  vehicles and payloads  (including  integration)  as well as
   satellite  ground  station  control  hardware  and  software.  Electro-optics
   products for spacecraft guidance, control instruments and sensors and defense
   subsystems for  surveillance,  warning,  target  identification  and attitude
   control in military and civilian  space  applications  continue to be a niche
   market for the division.

   Primary  cryogenics  products include  cryogenic systems for reactant storage
   and sensor cooling devices such as closed-cycle mechanical  refrigerators and
   open-cycle solid and liquid cryogens.



   The division has gained prominence in the star trackers market as an industry
   leader  in  general-purpose  stellar  attitude  sensors,  producing  a unique
   multi-mission,  man-rated star tracker for the space  shuttle.  Fast-steering
   mirrors provide precise  stabilization and pointing of optical lines of sight
   and offer potential commercial applications such as laser surgery and optical
   computing.

   Additionally,  this  division  provides  diversified  technical  services and
   products to federal and local  government  agencies,  prime  contractors  and
   commercial organizations for a broad range of information warfare, electronic
   warfare, avionics,  intelligence,  training and space systems problems. These
   same  skills  developed  for  defense and  aerospace  programs  are now being
   applied to transportation and environmental markets.

   Among the 1997 highlights was the launch  of  the Ball-built  Space Telescope
   Imaging Spectrograph and Near-infrared  Camera and Multi-object  Spectrometer
   for the February 1997 Hubble Space Telescope's second servicing mission.  The
   GEOSAT Follow-on  operational radar altimeter satellite was delivered in late
   1997 for launch in early 1998.  The  division  was also awarded a contract to
   design and develop the cryogenic telescope assembly for NASA's Space Infrared
   Telescope  Facility.  In addition the division received the first award under
   NASA's Rapid Spacecraft  Acquisition  contract for the QuikSCATTM  spacecraft
   bus. Other major contracts  include the Solar Array and Antenna Mechanism Lot
   5, the  Stratospheric  Aerosol and Gas Experiment and the Advanced Camera for
   Surveys.

   Telecommunication Products Division

   This division  develops and  manufactures  antenna,  communication  and video
   products and systems for space,  aeronautical,  land and marine  applications
   for military and specialized civil markets.

   Among the 1997  milestones was the completion of development of a new product
   called  jeTVisionTM  which provides live television to aircraft and which the
   Company plans to introduce in 1998.

   Backlog

   Backlog of the  aerospace and  technologies  segment was  approximately  $267
   million at December  31, 1997,  and $337  million at December  31, 1996,  and
   consists of the aggregate  contract  value of firm orders  excluding  amounts
   previously  recognized as revenue.  The 1997 backlog  includes  approximately
   $201 million which is expected to be billed  during 1998,  with the remainder
   expected to be billed  thereafter.  Unfunded  amounts included in backlog for
   certain  firm  government  orders  which are subject to annual  funding  were
   approximately $138 million at December 31, 1997. Year-to-year  comparisons of
   backlog are not necessarily indicative of the trend of future operations.

   The Company's aerospace and technologies  segment has contracts with the U.S.
   Government which have standard termination provisions. The Government retains
   the right to terminate  contracts at its convenience.  However,  if contracts
   are  terminated,  Ball is entitled to be reimbursed  for allowable  costs and
   profits to the date of termination  relating to authorized  work performed to
   such  date.  U.S.  Government  contracts  are also  subject to  reduction  or
   modification in the event of changes in Government  requirements or budgetary
   constraints.

                                     Patents

   In the opinion of the Company, none of its active patents is essential to the
   successful operation of its business as a whole.

                            Research and Development

   The  note,   "Research  and  Development,"  of  the  1997  Annual  Report  to
   Shareholders   contains  information  on  Company  research  and  development
   activity and is incorporated herein by reference.

                                   Environment

   Compliance  with federal,  state and local laws relating to protection of the
   environment has not had a material, adverse effect upon capital expenditures,
   earnings or  competitive  position of the  Company.  As more fully  described
   under Item 3, Legal Proceedings,  the U. S.  Environmental  Protection Agency
   and various state  environmental  agencies have  designated  the Company as a
   potentially  responsible party, along with numerous other companies,  for the
   cleanup of several hazardous waste sites.  However, the Company's information
   at this time does not  indicate  that  these  matters  will have a  material,
   adverse  effect upon  financial  condition,  results of  operations,  capital
   expenditures or competitive position of the Company.

   Legislation which would prohibit,  tax or restrict the sale or use of certain
   types of  containers,  and would  require  diversion  of solid wastes such as
   packaging materials from disposal in landfills, has been or may be introduced
   in the U.S.  Congress  and the  Canadian  Parliament,  in state and  Canadian
   provincial   legislatures  and  other  legislative  bodies.  While  container
   legislation has been adopted in a few jurisdictions,  similar legislation has
   been defeated in public referenda in several other states, in local elections
   and in many state and local  legislative  sessions.  The Company  anticipates
   that continuing  efforts will be made to consider and adopt such  legislation
   in many  jurisdictions in the future. If such legislation was widely adopted,
   it could have a material  adverse  effect on the business of the Company,  as
   well as on the container  manufacturing  industry  generally,  in view of the
   Company's  substantial  North  American sales and investment in metal and PET
   container manufacture.

   Aluminum, steel and PET containers are recyclable, and significant amounts of
   used  containers are being recycled and diverted from the solid waste stream.
   Using the most recent data  available,  in 1997  approximately  67 percent of
   aluminum  beverage  containers  sold in the U.S.  were  recycled.  Steel  can
   recycling in 1996, the latest  information  available,  was  approximately 58
   percent. In 1996, the most recent data available, approximately 34 percent of
   the PET soft  drink  containers,  and  approximately  26  percent  of all PET
   containers, sold in the U.S. were recycled.

                                    Employees

   As of March 1998 the Company employed approximately 10,300 people  worldwide.

Item 2.    Properties

   The Company's  properties  described  below are well  maintained,  considered
   adequate and being utilized for their intended purposes.

   The Corporate  headquarters  are currently  located in Muncie,  Indiana.  The
   offices for metal packaging  operations are based in  Westminster,  Colorado.
   Also located in  Westminster is the Edmund F. Ball  Technical  Center,  which
   serves  as a  research  and  development  facility  primarily  for the  metal
   packaging  operations.  The offices,  pilot line and research and development
   center for the plastic container business are located in Smyrna, Georgia.

   Ball  Aerospace  &  Technologies  Corp.  offices  are  currently  located  in
   Broomfield,  Colorado. The Colorado-based operations of this business operate
   from a variety of Company owned and leased facilities in Boulder,  Broomfield
   and Westminster,  Colorado,  which together aggregate approximately 1,000,000
   square feet of office, laboratory, research and development,  engineering and
   test, and  manufacturing  space,  including a leased research and development
   facility in Broomfield. Other aerospace and technologies operations are based
   in Dayton,  Ohio; Warner Robins,  Georgia;  Albuquerque,  New Mexico; and San
   Diego, California.

   Information regarding the approximate size of the manufacturing locations for
   significant packaging operations which are owned by the Company, except where
   indicated  otherwise,  follows.  Where  certain  locations  include  multiple
   facilities, the total approximate size for the location is noted. In addition
   to the manufacturing facilities, the Company leases warehousing space.


                                                 Approximate
                                                 Floor Space in
   Plant Location                                Square Feet

   Metal packaging manufacturing facilities:
   North America
   Blytheville, Arkansas (leased)                      8,000
   Springdale, Arkansas                              290,000
   Richmond, British Columbia                        204,000
   Fairfield, California                             148,000
   Golden, Colorado                                  330,000
   Tampa, Florida                                    139,000
   Saratoga Springs, New York                        283,000
   Columbus, Ohio                                    170,000
   Findlay, Ohio                                     450,000
   Burlington, Ontario                               309,000
   Hamilton, Ontario                                 347,000
   Whitby, Ontario                                   195,000
   Baie d'Urfe, Quebec                               117,000
   Chestnut Hill, Tennessee                           42,000
   Conroe, Texas                                     284,000
   Williamsburg, Virginia                            260,000
   Weirton, West Virginia (leased)                   117,000
   DeForest, Wisconsin                                45,000
   Asia
   ----
   Beijing, China                                    227,000
   E-zhou, Hubei (Wuhan), China                      183,000
   Ningbo, China                                      81,000
   Hong Kong, China                                  340,000
   Panyu, China                                      133,000
   Shenzhen, China                                   271,000
   Tianjin, China                                    333,000
   Xi'an, China                                       89,000
   Zhuhai, China                                      84,000



                                                 Approximate
                                                 Floor Space in
   Plant Location                                Square Feet

   Plastic packaging manufacturing facilities:
   North America
   Chino, California (leased)                        228,000
   Ames, Iowa                                        250,000
   Delran, New Jersey (leased)                       466,000
   Baldwinsville, New York (leased)                  240,000
   Asia
   ----
   Hong Kong, China (leased)                          55,000
   Taicang, Jiangsu, China (leased)                   63,000
   Tianjin, China                                     52,000

   In addition to the  consolidated  manufacturing  facilities,  the Company has
   minority  ownership  interests  in  packaging  affiliates  located  in China,
   Brazil, Thailand, Taiwan and the Philippines.

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings

   As previously  reported,  the United States  Environmental  Protection Agency
   (EPA) considers the Company to be a Potentially  Responsible Party (PRP) with
   respect to the Lowry  Landfill  (site) located east of Denver,  Colorado.  On
   June 12,  1992,  the Company was served with a lawsuit  filed by the City and
   County of Denver and Waste Management of Colorado, Inc., seeking contribution
   from the Company and approximately 38 other companies.  The Company filed its
   answer denying the allegations of the Complaint. On July 8, 1992, the Company
   was served with a  third-party  complaint  filed by S. W.  Shattuck  Chemical
   Company,  Inc., seeking contribution from the Company and other companies for
   the costs associated with cleaning up the Lowry Landfill.  The Company denied
   the allegations of the complaint.

   In July 1992,  the Company  entered  into a  settlement  and  indemnification
   agreement  with  the City and  County  of  Denver  (Denver),  Chemical  Waste
   Management,  Inc., and Waste Management of Colorado,  Inc., pursuant to which
   Denver,  Chemical Waste  Management,  Inc., and Waste Management of Colorado,
   Inc.  (collectively  Waste),  dismissed their lawsuit against the Company and
   Waste agreed to defend,  indemnify  and hold harmless the Company from claims
   and lawsuits  brought by governmental  agencies and other parties relating to
   actions  seeking  contributions  or  remedial  costs from the Company for the
   cleanup of the site.  Several  other  companies  which are  defendants in the
   above-referenced  lawsuits  had  already  entered  into  the  settlement  and
   indemnification agreement with Denver and Waste. Waste Management,  Inc., has
   agreed to guarantee the obligations of Chemical Waste  Management,  Inc., and
   Waste  Management  of  Colorado,  Inc.  Waste and Denver may seek  additional
   payments  from the Company if the response  costs  related to the site exceed
   $319 million.  The Company might also be responsible for payments (calculated
   in 1992 dollars) for any additional wastes which may have been disposed of by
   the Company at the site but which are  identified  after the execution of the
   settlement agreement.

   At this time,  there are no Lowry  Landfill  actions in which the  Company is
   actively involved.  Based on the information  available to the Company at the
   present time, the Company  believes that this matter will not have a material
   adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company.

   As previously reported, the Company has been notified by Chrysler Corporation
   (Chrysler) that Chrysler,  Ford Motor Company, and General Motors Corporation
   have  been  named in a  lawsuit  filed in the  U.S.  District  Court in Reno,
   Nevada,  by Jerome  Lemelson,  alleging  infringement  of three of his vision
   inspection  system  patents  used by  defendants.  One or more of the  vision
   inspection  systems  used by the  defendants  may have been  supplied  by the
   Company's former Industrial Systems Division  (Division) or its predecessors.
   The suit  seeks  injunctive  relief and  unspecified  damages.  Chrysler  has
   notified   the   Company   that  the   Division   may  have   indemnification
   responsibilities  to Chrysler.  The Company has responded to Chrysler that it
   appears at this time that the systems sold to Chrysler by the Company  either
   were not covered by the  identified  patents or were sold to Chrysler  before
   the  patents  were  issued.  On June 16,  1995,  the  Magistrate  of the U.S.
   District Court has declared the patents of Lemelson  unenforceable because of
   the long delays in  prosecution.  On April 28, 1997, the U.S.  District Court
   Judge vacated the report and recommendation of the U.S.  Magistrate and found
   that the patents were not  invalid.  On August 20,  1997,  the U.S.  Court of
   Appeals for the Federal  Circuit  denied  Ford's  petition for  permission to
   appeal.  Based on that  information,  the  Company  is unable to  express  an
   opinion as to the actual exposure of the Company for these matters.

   As previously  reported,  in September  1992, the Company,  as a fourth-party
   defendant,  was served with a lawsuit filed by AlliedSignal and certain other
   fourth-party  plaintiffs  seeking the recovery of certain  response costs and
   contribution under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
   Liability  act of 1980,  as amended  (CERCLA)  with  respect  to the  alleged
   disposal by its Metal Decorating & Service Division of hazardous waste at the
   Cross  Brothers  Site in Kankakee,  Illinois,  during the years 1961 to 1980.
   Also in September  1992, the Company was sued by another  defendant,  Krueger
   Ringier,  Inc. In October 1992 the Illinois  Environmental  Protection Agency
   filed an action to join the  Company as a  Defendant  seeking to recover  the
   State's costs in removing  waste from the Cross  Brothers  Site.  The Company
   denied the  allegations  of the  complaints  and  continued  to defend  these
   matters.  The Company and certain other companies have entered into a Consent
   Decree with the EPA  pursuant to which the EPA  received  approximately  $2.9
   million dollars and provided the companies with contribution protection and a
   covenant not to sue. Ball's share of the settlement  amount was  $858,493.60.
   The Company has been  indemnified  for the  settlement  payment by  Alltrista
   Corporation  which owned the Metal Decorating & Service  Division.  The Court
   approved the Consent  Decree on April 28, 1994. The Company and certain other
   companies have negotiated a settlement  with the State of Illinois.  Pursuant
   to the  settlement,  the  group  paid  the  State  of  Illinois  $888,367  in
   settlement of the costs  expended in the cleanup of the Cross  Brothers Site.
   The Company's  portion was $153,846,  and the Company has been indemnified by
   Alltrista Corporation. Based upon the information available to the Company at
   this  time,  this  matter has not had a  material,  adverse  effect  upon its
   financial condition. The Company believes this matter is now closed.

   As previously  reported,  on April 24, 1992,  the Company was notified by the
   Muncie Race Track  Steering  Committee  that the Company,  through its former
   Consumer  Products Division and former Zinc Products  Division,  may be a PRP
   with  respect  to waste  disposed  at the Muncie  Race Track Site  located in
   Delaware County,  Indiana.  The Steering Committee requested that the Company
   pay two percent of the cleanup  costs which are  estimated at this time to be
   $10 million. The Company declined to participate in the PRP group because the
   Company's records do not indicate the Company contributed  hazardous waste to
   the site.  Based upon the information  available to the Company at this time,
   the Company does not believe  that this matter will have a material,  adverse
   effect upon the financial condition of the Company.



   On August 1,  1997,  EPA sent  notice of  potential  liability  letters to 19
   owners,  operators, and waste generators concerning past activities at one or
   more of the four Rocky Flats parcels at the Rocky Flats  Industrial Park site
   located in Jefferson  County,  Colorado.  Based upon  sampling at the site in
   1996, EPA determined that additional site work would be required to determine
   the  extent of  contamination  and the  possible  cleanup  of the  site.  EPA
   requested the letter  recipients  conduct an engineering  evaluation and cost
   analysis (EE/CA) of the site. Fourteen companies, including the Company, have
   agreed  to  undertake  the  study.  EPA is  also  seeking  reimbursement  for
   approximately  $1.5 million they have already  spent at the site. On December
   19,  1997,  EPA issued an  Administrative  Order to  conduct  the EE/CA to 18
   owners,  operators,  and generators associated with the site. The EPA alleges
   that the Company is the ninth  largest  generator of the thirteen  generators
   issued  Administrative  Orders.  The PRP group has  undertaken the EE/CA at a
   cost of about $850,000 of which the Company has paid  approximately  $70,000.
   Based upon the information  available at this time, the Company believes that
   this  matter  will  not  have a  material  adverse  effect  on the  financial
   condition of the Company.

   As previously  reported,  the Company was notified on June 19, 1989, that the
   EPA  has  designated  the  Company  and  numerous  other  companies  as  PRPs
   responsible  for the  cleanup  of  certain  hazardous  wastes  that have been
   released at the Spectron, Inc., site located in Elkton, Maryland. In December
   1989, the Company,  along with other companies whose alleged  hazardous waste
   contributions  to the Spectron,  Inc., site were considered to be de minimis,
   entered into a settlement  agreement  with the EPA for cleanup costs incurred
   in connection with the removal action of aboveground  site areas. By a letter
   dated September 29, 1995, the Company,  along with the other  above-described
   PRPs, were notified by EPA that it was negotiating with the large volume PRPs
   another  consent order for  performance  of a site  environmental  study as a
   prerequisite to possible long-term remediation. EPA and the large-volume PRPs
   have stated that a second de minimis  buyout for  settlement of liability for
   performance  of all  environmental  studies  and  site  remediation  is being
   formulated and an offer to participate  therein has been made to the Company.
   Certain other PRPs have agreed with the EPA to perform a groundwater study of
   the site. The Company's  information at this time does not indicate that this
   matter will have a material, adverse effect upon its financial condition.

   As previously reported, the Company has received information that it has been
   named  a  PRP  with  respect  to  the  Solvents   Recovery  Site  located  in
   Southington,  Connecticut.  According  to  the  information  received  by the
   Company,  it is alleged  that the Company  contributed  approximately  .08816
   percent  of the waste  contributed  to the site on a  volumetric  basis.  The
   Company is  attempting  to identify  additional  information  regarding  this
   matter.  The Company has responded and has  investigated  the accuracy of the
   total volume alleged to be  attributable  to the Company.  The Company joined
   the PRP group during 1993.  In February  1995,  the Company  executed a trust
   agreement   whereby   certain   contributions   will  be  made  to  fund  the
   administration  of an ongoing  work group.  The group  members  finalized  an
   Administrative   Order  on  Consent   For   Removal   Action   and   Remedial
   Investigation/Feasibility  Study on February  6, 1997,  pursuant to which the
   group  members will  perform a removal  action and  completion  of a remedial
   investigation and feasibility study in connection with the site. Based on the
   information  available to the Company at this time, the Company believes that
   this  matter  will not  have a  material,  adverse  effect  on the  financial
   condition of the Company.



   As  previously  reported,  on or about June 14,  1990,  the El Monte plant of
   Ball-InCon  Glass  Packaging  Corp.,  a then wholly owned  subsidiary  of the
   Company (renamed Ball Glass Container Corporation (Ball Glass), the assets of
   which were  contributed in September 1995 into a joint venture with Compagnie
   de Saint-Gobain (Saint-Gobain), now known as Ball-Foster Glass Container Co.,
   L.L.C.,  and wholly owned by Saint-Gobain),  received a general  notification
   letter and information request from EPA, Region IX, notifying Ball Glass that
   it may have a potential liability as defined in Section 107(a) of CERCLA with
   respect to the San Gabriel  Valley areas 1-4  Superfund  sites located in Los
   Angeles County,  California.  The EPA requested certain information from Ball
   Glass, and Ball Glass responded. The Company received notice from the City of
   El Monte that,  pursuant to a proposed city economic  redevelopment plan, the
   City proposed to commence groundwater cleanup by a pump and treat remediation
   process. A PRP group organized and drafted a PRP group agreement,  which Ball
   Glass executed.  The PRP group retained an environmental  engineering firm to
   critique the EPA studies and any proposed remediation.

   The PRP  group  completed  negotiations  with the EPA  over the  terms of the
   administrative   consent   order,   statement   of  work  for  the   remedial
   investigation  phase of the cleanup,  and the interim allocation  arrangement
   between  group  members  to fund  the  remedial  investigation.  The  interim
   allocation  approach  would  require  that any  payment  will be  based  upon
   contribution to pollution.  The administrative  consent order was executed by
   the  group  and EPA.  The EPA also  accepted  the  statement  of work for the
   remedial   investigation  phase  of  the  cleanup.   The  group  retained  an
   environmental   engineering   consulting   firm  to  perform   the   remedial
   investigation.  As required under the administrative consent order, the group
   submitted to the EPA all copies of all environmental studies conducted at the
   plant,  the  majority of which had  already  been  furnished  to the State of
   California.  The EPA approved the work plan, project management plan, and the
   data  management  plan  portions  of  the  PRP  group's   proposed   remedial
   investigation/feasibility  study (RI/FS).  The group is currently funding the
   RI/FS. The group has proposed a range of remedies.  The cost of such remedies
   might  range  from  minimal   costs  to  $6,240,000   for  deep   groundwater
   remediation. The group has not made any final allocation.

   Based on the  information  available to the Company at the present time,  the
   Company is unable to express  an  opinion  as to the actual  exposure  of the
   Company for this matter.  However,  Commercial  Union, the Company's  general
   liability  insurer,  is defending this governmental  action and is paying the
   cost of defense including attorneys' fees.

   As previously  reported,  in March of 1992, William Hallahan,  an employee of
   the Company's metal container plant in Saratoga  Springs,  New York,  filed a
   workers'  compensation claim alleging that he suffers from a form of leukemia
   that was caused by his exposure to certain  chemicals used in the plant.  The
   Company  denied the charge,  and  hearings on the matter were held before the
   Workers'  Compensation  Board of the State of New York.  On January 14, 1997,
   the  Administrative  Law Judge filed his  Memorandum  of Decision  finding in
   favor of the  claimant.  The  Company  has filed an  appeal.  Based  upon the
   information  available to the Company at this time, the Company believes that
   this  matter  will not  have a  material,  adverse  effect  on the  financial
   condition of the Company.



   William  Hallahan and his wife filed suit against  certain  manufacturers  of
   solvents, coatings, and equipment, including Somerset Technologies and Belvac
   Production  Machinery  seeking  damages  in the  amount  of $15  million  for
   allegedly  causing  leukemia by exposing him to harmful toxins.  Somerset and
   Belvac filed third-party complaints seeking contribution from the Company for
   damages  that they might be required to pay to William  Hallahan.  Based upon
   information  available to the Company at this time, the Company believes that
   this  matter  will  not  have a  material  adverse  effect  on the  financial
   condition of the Company.

   On November 30, 1995, the U.S. Justice Department filed a lawsuit in the U.S.
   District  Court for the Eastern  District of Michigan on behalf of the United
   States of America  against Erie  Coatings and  Chemicals,  Inc.,  and certain
   other  defendants,  including  the  Company,  seeking  the  reimbursement  of
   approximately  $1.3  million  in  costs.  The  lawsuit  alleges  that some 30
   generators of hazardous waste, including the Company's metal container group,
   disposed of hazardous  waste at the Erie Coatings and Chemicals,  Inc.,  site
   located in Erie,  Michigan.  The United States and the  defendants  agreed to
   settle this matter for  $900,000.  A Consent  Decree  resolving  the case was
   approved by the Court on August 11, 1997. The Company contributed  $39,951.09
   to settle the Company's alleged liability in this matter. The group continues
   to seek further  contribution  from other PRPs.  This matter is now concluded
   with no material adverse effect on the Company.

   On  January 5,  1996,  the  Company  was  served  with a lawsuit  filed by an
   individual  named  Tangee E.  Daniels,  on behalf  of  herself  and two minor
   children  and  four  other  plaintiffs,  alleging  that the  Company's  metal
   beverage  container  operations  a/k/a  Ball  Corporation  and  over 50 other
   defendants  disposed  of  certain  hazardous  waste  at the  hazardous  waste
   disposal  site operated by Gibraltar  Chemical  Resources,  Inc.,  located in
   Winona,  Smith County,  Texas. The lawsuit also alleges that American Ecology
   Corp., America Ecology Management Corp., Mobley Environmental Services, Inc.,
   John A. Mobley, James Mobley,  Daniel Mobley, and Thomas Mobley were managers
   for Gibraltar  and failed to  appropriately  manage the waste  disposed of or
   treated at the Gibraltar site,  resulting in release of hazardous  substances
   into the  environment.  The plaintiffs  allege that they have been denied the
   enjoyment of their property and have sustained personal and bodily injury and
   damages due to the release of hazardous  waste and toxic  substances into the
   environment  caused by all the  defendants.  The plaintiffs  allege  numerous
   causes of action  under  state law and common  law.  Plaintiffs  also seek to
   recover damages for past, present,  and future medical treatment;  mental and
   emotional  anguish  and  trauma;  loss of wages  and  earning  capacity;  and
   physical impairment,  as well as punitive damages and prejudgment interest in
   unspecified   amounts.   Three  other   lawsuits   have  been  filed  against
   substantially  the same defendants:  Williams v. Akzo Nobel  Chemicals,  Inc.
   (dismissed but appealed),  and Gibraltar Chemical Resources,  Inc.; Steich v.
   Akzo et al. (voluntarily  dismissed without prejudice);  and Adams v. Akzo et
   al. Each  lawsuit  makes the same  allegations  that are made in the Daniel's
   suit and seeks the same  damages.  The Company is a party  defendant  in each
   lawsuit. The Company has denied the allegations of each complaint and intends
   to defend each matter.  Based upon the limited  information  available to the
   Company at the present  time,  the Company is unable to express an opinion as
   to the actual exposure of the Company for these matters.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders

   There were no matters  submitted  to the security  holders  during the fourth
   quarter of 1997.



                                     Part II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

   Ball  Corporation  common stock (BLL) is traded on the New York,  Chicago and
   Pacific Stock  Exchanges.  There were 7,519 common  shareholders of record on
   March 2, 1998.

   Other  information  required by Item 5 appears under the caption,  "Quarterly
   Stock Prices and Dividends," in the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders and is
   incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

   The  information  required  by Item 6 for the five years ended  December  31,
   1997,  appearing  in  the  section  titled,  "Five-Year  Review  of  Selected
   Financial  Data," of the 1997 Annual Report to  Shareholders  is incorporated
   herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

   "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of
   Operations" of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated  herein
   by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

   The  consolidated  financial  statements and notes thereto of the 1997 Annual
   Report to Shareholders,  together with the report thereon of Price Waterhouse
   LLP, dated January 28, 1998, except as to the note, "Subsequent Event," which
   is as of February 4, 1998, are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
         Financial Disclosure

   There were no matters required to be reported under this item.




                                    Part III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The  executive  officers  of the  Company  as of  December  31,  1997 were as
   follows:

 1.   George A. Sissel, 61, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  since January
      1998;  Chairman,   President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer,   1996-1998;
      President and Chief Executive  Officer,  1995-1996;  Acting  President and
      Chief  Executive  Officer,  1994-1995;  Senior Vice  President,  Corporate
      Affairs; Corporate Secretary and General Counsel,  1993-1995;  Senior Vice
      President,  Corporate  Secretary  and  General  Counsel,  1987-1993;  Vice
      President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel, 1981-1987.

 2.   R. David Hoover,  52, Vice  Chairman and Chief  Financial  Officer,  since
      January  1998;  Executive  Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer,
      1997-1998;   Executive  Vice  President,   Chief  Financial   Officer  and
      Treasurer,   1996-1997;  Executive  Vice  President  and  Chief  Financial
      Officer,  1995-1996;  Senior Vice President and Chief  Financial  Officer,
      1992-1995; Vice President and Treasurer,  1988-1992;  Assistant Treasurer,
      1987-1988; Vice President, Finance and Administration, Technical Products,
      1985-1987; Vice President, Finance and Administration, Management Services
      Division, 1983-1985.

 3.   George A.  Matsik,  58,  President;  Chief  Operating  Officer,  Packaging
      Operations,  since  January  1998;  Executive  Vice  President  and  Chief
      Operating  Officer,  Packaging  Operations,   1997-1998;  Chief  Operating
      Officer,  Packaging  Operations,   1996-1997;   President,   International
      Packaging Operations, 1995-1996.

 4.   Donald C. Lewis,  55, Vice President,  Assistant  Corporate  Secretary and
      General Counsel, since April 1997; General Counsel and Assistant Corporate
      Secretary,  1995-1997;  Associate  General Counsel,  1983-1995;  Assistant
      General Counsel, 1980-1983; Senior Attorney,  1978-1980; General Attorney,
      1974-1978.

 5.   Albert R. Schlesinger,  56,  Vice President and Controller,  since January
      1987; Assistant Controller, 1976-1986.

 6.   Raymond J. Seabrook, 47, Vice President, Planning and Control, since April
      1996; Vice President and Treasurer,  1992-1996;  Senior Vice President and
      Chief Financial Officer, Ball Packaging Products Canada, Inc., 1988-1992.

 7.   Harold L. Sohn, 52, Vice President, Corporate Relations, since March 1993;
      Director, Industry Affairs, Packaging Products, 1988-1993.

 8.   David A.  Westerlund,  47, Vice President,  Administration,  since January
      1997;  Vice  President,  Human  Resources,   1994-1997;  Senior  Director,
      Corporate Human Resources, July 1994-December 1994; Vice President,  Human
      Resources and Administration, Ball Glass Container Corporation, 1988-1994;
      Vice  President,  Human  Resources,   Ball-InCon  Glass  Packaging  Corp.,
      1987-1988.



   Other information required by Item 10 appearing under the caption,  "Director
   Nominees  and  Continuing  Directors,"  on pages 3  through  5 and  under the
   caption, "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" on page 15
   of the Company's proxy statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A dated March
   16, 1998, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.   Executive Compensation

   The information  required by Item 11 appearing under the caption,  "Executive
   Compensation,"  on pages 7 through 13 of the Company's  proxy statement filed
   pursuant to Regulation  14A dated March 16, 1998, is  incorporated  herein by
   reference.

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

   The  information  required by Item 12 appearing  under the  caption,  "Voting
   Securities  and  Principal  Shareholders,"  on pages 1 and 2 of the Company's
   proxy  statement  filed  pursuant to Regulation  14A dated March 16, 1998, is
   incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

   The   information   required  by  Item  13   appearing   under  the  caption,
   "Relationship   with  Independent   Public   Accountants  and  Certain  Other
   Relationships  and Related  Transactions,"  on page 15 of the Company's proxy
   statement  filed  pursuant  to  Regulation  14A  dated  March  16,  1998,  is
   incorporated herein by reference.



                                     Part IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)     (1) Financial Statements:

        The  following   documents   included  in  the  1997  Annual  Report  to
        Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8:

           Consolidated  statement of income  (loss) - Years ended  December 31,
           1997, 1996 and 1995

           Consolidated balance sheet - December 31, 1997 and 1996

           Consolidated statement of cash flows - Years ended December 31, 1997,
           1996 and 1995

           Consolidated  statement  of changes in  shareholders'  equity - Years
           ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

           Notes to consolidated financial statements

           Report of independent accountants

        (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

        There were no financial statement schedules required under this item.

        (3)  Exhibits:

        See the Index to Exhibits  which appears at the end of this document and
        which is incorporated by reference herein.

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K:

        The registrant filed or amended reports on Form 8-K as follows:

        A current  report on Form 8-K filed February 12, 1998,  reporting  under
        Item 5 an  announcement  that Ball will move its corporate  headquarters
        from Muncie to the Denver/Boulder area in Colorado.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                BALL CORPORATION
                                  (Registrant)

                                               By:  /s/George A. Sissel
                                                  George A. Sissel, Chairman and
                                                        Chief Executive Officer
                                                  March 31, 1998


   Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  this
   report has been signed by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant
   and in the capacities and on the dates indicated below.

   (1)   Principal Executive Officer:

                                                   Chairman and Chief Executive
              /s/George A. Sissel                  Officer
           -------------------------------------
              George A. Sissel                     March 31, 1998

   (2)   Principal Financial Accounting Officer:

                                                   Vice Chairman and Chief
              /s/R. David Hoover                   Financial Officer
           -------------------------------------
              R. David Hoover                      March 31, 1998

   (3)   Controller:

              /s/Albert R. Schlesinger             Vice President and Controller
           -------------------------------------
              Albert R. Schlesinger                March 31, 1998

   (4)   A Majority of the Board of Directors:

              /s/Frank A. Bracken                  *     Director
           -------------------------------------
              Frank A. Bracken                     March 31, 1998

              /s/Howard M. Dean                    *     Director
           -------------------------------------
              Howard M. Dean                       March 31, 1998

              /s/John T. Hackett                   *     Director
           -------------------------------------
              John T. Hackett                      March 31, 1998

              /s/R. David Hoover                   *     Director
           -------------------------------------
              R. David Hoover                      March 31, 1998

              /s/John F. Lehman                    *     Director
           -------------------------------------
              John F. Lehman                       March 31, 1998

              /s/George McFadden                   *     Director
           -------------------------------------
              George McFadden                      March 31, 1998

              /s/Ruel C. Mercure, Jr.              *     Director
           -------------------------------------
              Ruel C. Mercure, Jr.                 March 31, 1998



              /s/Jan Nicholson                     *      Director
           -------------------------------------
              Jan Nicholson                        March 31, 1998

                                                   Chairman, Chief Executive
              /s/George A. Sissel                  *      Officer and Director
           -------------------------------------
              George A. Sissel                     March 31, 1998

              /s/William P. Stiritz                *      Director
           -------------------------------------
              William P. Stiritz                   March 31, 1998


   *By  George A.  Sissel as  Attorney-in-Fact  pursuant  to a Limited  Power of
   Attorney executed by the directors listed above,  which Power of Attorney has
   been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

                                                       By:  /s/George A. Sissel
                                                          George A. Sissel
                                                          As Attorney-in-Fact
                                                          March 31, 1998


                        Ball Corporation and Subsidiaries
                           Annual Report on Form 10-K
                      For the year ended December 31, 1997

                                Index to Exhibits


      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
       3.(i)     Amended  Articles  of  Incorporation  as of  November  26, 1990
                 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to the Current Report on
                 Form 8-K dated November 30, 1990) filed December 13, 1990.

       3.(ii)    Bylaws of Ball  Corporation as amended  January 25, 1994 (filed
                 by incorporation by reference to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1993) filed March 29, 1994.

       4.1       Ball  Corporation and its  subsidiaries  have no long-term debt
                 instruments in which the total amount of securities  authorized
                 under any  instrument  exceeds  10% of the total  assets of the
                 registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated  basis.  Ball
                 Corporation  hereby  agrees to furnish a copy of any  long-term
                 debt instruments upon the request of the Commission.

       4.2       Dividend  distribution  payable  to  shareholders  of record on
                 August 4, 2006, of one preferred  stock purchase right for each
                 outstanding  share of common  stock under the Rights  Agreement
                 dated as of July 24,  1996,  between  the Company and The First
                 Chicago  Trust Company of New York (filed by  incorporation  by
                 reference to the Form 8-A Registration  Statement,  No. 1-7349,
                 dated  August 1, 1996,  and filed  August 2,  1996,  and to the
                 Company's  Form 8-K Report dated  February 13, 1996,  and filed
                 February 14, 1996).

      10.1       1980  Stock  Option  and Stock  Appreciation  Rights  Plan,  as
                 amended,  1983 Stock Option and Stock Appreciation  Rights Plan
                 (filed  by   incorporation   by   reference  to  the  Form  S-8
                 Registration Statement, No. 2-82925) filed April 27, 1983.

      10.2       1988  Restricted  Stock  Plan and 1988  Stock  Option and Stock
                 Appreciation  Rights Plan (filed by  incorporation by reference
                 to the Form S-8  Registration  Statement,  No.  33-21506) filed
                 April 27, 1988.

      10.3       Ball Corporation Deferred Incentive Compensation Plan (filed by
                 incorporation  by reference  to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1987) filed March 25, 1988.

      10.4       Ball  Corporation 1986 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.



      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
      10.5       Ball  Corporation 1988 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.6       Ball  Corporation 1989 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.7       Amended and Restated Form of Severance  Benefit Agreement which
                 exists   between  the  Company  and  its  executive   officers,
                 effective  as of August 1, 1994 and as amended  on January  24,
                 1996,  (filed by  incorporation  by reference to the  Quarterly
                 Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1996) filed
                 May 15, 1996.

      10.8       Stock  Purchase  Agreement  dated as of June 29, 1989,  between
                 Ball  Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. (filed by incorporation
                 by  reference  to the  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the
                 quarter ended July 2, 1989) filed August 15, 1989.

      10.9       Ball Corporation 1986 Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors,
                 as  amended  October  27,  1987  (filed  by   incorporation  by
                 reference to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1990) filed April 1, 1991.

      10.10      1991 Restricted Stock Plan for  Nonemployee Directors  of  Ball
                 Corporation  (filed by  incorporation by  reference to the Form
                 S-8
                 Registration Statement, No. 33-40199) filed April 26, 1991.

      10.11      Ball  Corporation  Economic Value Added Incentive  Compensation
                 Plan dated January 1, 1994 (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December
                 31, 1994) filed March 29, 1995.

      10.12      Ball   Corporation   1997  Stock   Incentive   Plan  (filed  by
                 incorporation   by  reference  to  the  Form  S-8  Registration
                 Statement, No. 333-26361), filed May 1, 1997.

      10.13      Agreement and Plan of Merger among  Ball Corporation,  Ball Sub
                 Corp. and Heekin Can, Inc. dated as of December 1, 1992, and as
                 amended as of  December 28, 1992  (filed  by  incorporation  by
                 reference  to the  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-4,  No.
                 33-58516) filed February 19, 1993.


      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
      10.14      Distribution  Agreement  between Ball Corporation and Alltrista
                 (filed  by   incorporation   by  reference  to  the   Alltrista
                 Corporation  Form 8,  Amendment No. 3 to Form 10, No.  0-21052,
                 dated December 31, 1992) filed March 17, 1993.

      10.15      1993 Stock Option Plan  (filed by incorporation by reference to
                 the Form S-8  Registration Statement, No. 33-61986) filed April
                 30, 1993.

      10.16      Retirement  Agreement  dated June 17, 1994,  between Delmont A.
                 Davis and Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July
                 3, 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.17      Ball-InCon Glass Packaging Corp. Deferred Compensation Plan, as
                 amended  July 1, 1994 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to
                 the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

      10.18      Retention Agreement  dated  June 22, 1994,  between  Donovan B.
                 Hicks and Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the  Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q  for the  quarter  ended
                 July 3, 1994) filed  August 17, 1994.

      10.19      Ball Corporation  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (filed
                 by  incorporation  by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form
                 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 1994) filed  November 15,
                 1994.

      10.20      Ball  Corporation  Split Dollar Life  Insurance  Plan (filed by
                 incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                 for the quarter ended October 2, 1994) filed November 15, 1994.

      10.21      Ball  Corporation  Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan, dated October
                 25, 1994, as amended  October 23, 1996 (filed by  incorporation
                 by  reference  to the  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the
                 quarter ended September 29, 1996) filed November 13, 1996.

      10.22      Asset  Purchase  Agreement  dated June 26,  1995,  among Foster
                 Ball,  L.L.C.  (since renamed  Ball-Foster Glass Container Co.,
                 L.L.C.),  Ball Glass Container Corporation and Ball Corporation
                 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to the Current Report on
                 Form 8-K dated September 15, 1995) filed September 29, 1995.

      10.23      Foster Ball, L.L.C.  (since renamed Ball-Foster Glass Container
                 Co., L.L.C.)  Amended and  Restated Limited  Liability  Company
                 Agreement dated  June 26, 1995,  among  Saint-Gobain Holdings I
                 Corp.,  BG Holdings I, Inc.  and BG Holdings II, Inc. (filed by
                 incorporation by  reference to the  Current Report on  Form 8-K
                 dated September 15, 1995) filed September 29, 1995.



      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
      10.24      Part-Time  Employment,   Retirement   and  Consulting  Services
                 Agreement between  Duane E. Emerson  and Ball Corporation dated
                 January 14, 1997. (Filed herewith.)

      10.25      Agreement and General Release between David B. Sheldon and Ball
                 Corporation dated February 7, 1997. (Filed herewith.)

      10.26      Consulting Agreement between  The Cygnus Enterprise Development
                 Corp. (for which Donovan B. Hicks is managing partner) and Ball
                 Corporation dated January 1, 1997. (Filed herewith.)

      10.27      Form of Severance Agreement (Change of Control Agreement) which
                 exists between the Company and its executive officers (filed by
                 incorporation  by reference  to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1988) filed March 25, 1989.

      11.1       Statement  re:  Computation  of  Earnings  Per Share  (filed by
                 incorporation  by  reference  to the notes to the  consolidated
                 financial statements,  "Earnings Per Share," in the 1997 Annual
                 Report to Shareholders). (Filed herewith.)

      13.1       Ball Corporation 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders (The Annual
                 Report  to  Shareholders,  except  for those  portions  thereof
                 incorporated by reference,  is furnished for the information of
                 the  Commission  and is not to be deemed  filed as part of this
                 Form 10-K.) (Filed herewith.)

      18.1       Letter  re:    Change  in  Accounting  Principles.   (filed  by
                 incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                 for  the quarterly period ended July 2, 1995)  filed August 15,
                 1995.

      21.1       List of Subsidiaries of Ball Corporation.  (Filed herewith.)

      23.1       Consent of Independent Accountants. (Filed herewith.)

      24.1       Limited Power of Attorney.  (Filed herewith.)

      27.1       Financial Data Schedule  for the year ended  December 31, 1997.
                 (Filed herewith.)

      99.1       Specimen Certificate of Common Stock (filed by incorporation by
                 reference to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1979) filed March 24, 1980.

      99.2       Cautionary  statement   for  purposes  of  the   "safe  harbor"
                 provisions  of the  Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
                 1995, as amended. (Filed herewith.)


