
10-K
FORM 10-K


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

           ( X ) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

          ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
       For the transition period from ________________ to ________________

                          Commission File Number 1-7349

                                Ball Corporation

                     State of Indiana            35-0160610

                       10 Longs Peak Drive, P.O. Box 5000
                         Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (303) 469-3131
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                      Name of each exchange
        Title of each class                            on which registered
 ---------------------------------              --------------------------------
  Common Stock, without par value                 New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                                  Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                                     Pacific Exchange, Inc.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES [ X ] NO [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The  aggregate  market  value of  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
registrant  was $804.7  million based upon the closing  market price on March 3,
2000  (excluding  Series B ESOP  Convertible  Preferred Stock of the registrant,
which  series is not  publicly  traded  and which has an  aggregate  liquidation
preference of $56.2 million).

Number of shares outstanding as of the latest practicable date.

            Class                                   Outstanding at March 5, 2000
- -------------------------------                     ----------------------------
Common Stock, without par value                               30,081,175

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.   Annual Report to Shareholders  for the year ended December 31, 1999, to the
     extent  indicated  in  Parts  I,  II,  and  IV.  Except  as to  information
     specifically incorporated, the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders is not to
     be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K Annual Report.

2.   Proxy  statement  filed with the  Commission  dated March 15, 2000,  to the
     extent indicated in Part III.


                                     PART I
Item 1.    Business

Ball Corporation is an Indiana corporation organized in 1880 and incorporated in
Indiana in 1922.  Its principal  executive  offices are located at 10 Longs Peak
Drive,  Broomfield,  Colorado 80021-2510.  The terms "Ball" and the "Company" as
used herein refer to Ball Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Ball is a manufacturer of metal and plastic  packaging,  primarily for beverages
and foods,  and a supplier of aerospace and other  technologies  and services to
commercial and governmental customers.

The  following  sections  of the 1999  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders  contain
financial and other  information  concerning  Company business  developments and
operations, and are incorporated herein by reference: the notes to the financial
statements  "Business Segment  Information (note 2)," "Headquarters  Relocation,
Plant Closures,  Dispositions and Other Costs (note 4)," "Acquisitions (note 3)"
and "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations."

                          Recent Business Developments

Ball and ConAgra Grocery Products Company  (ConAgra),  a unit of ConAgra,  Inc.,
announced  in February  2000 their  agreement  to form a joint  venture  company
called Ball Western Can Company  (Ball  Western) to acquire and operate  certain
ConAgra can manufacturing assets in California. Under a separate agreement, Ball
will  purchase  certain  ConAgra  manufacturing  assets and relocate  them to an
existing Ball plant in  Tennessee.  Ball Western and Ball will supply metal food
cans and ends under  long-term  agreements to ConAgra,  whose  requirements  are
currently about one billion cans and ends per year.

           Other Information Pertaining to the Business of the Company

The  Company's  businesses  are  comprised  of  two segments:  (1) packaging and
(2) aerospace and technologies.

Packaging Segment

Ball's  principal  business  is the  manufacture  and  sale of  rigid  packaging
products,  primarily  for beverages  and foods.  Packaging  products are sold in
highly  competitive  markets,  primarily based on quality,  service and price. A
substantial part of the Company's packaging sales is made directly to relatively
few major companies in packaged beverage and food businesses.  Packaging segment
sales to Miller Brewing Company,  PepsiCo,  Inc., and affiliates,  and Coca-Cola
and affiliates, represented approximately 15 percent, 13 percent and 11 percent,
respectively, of consolidated 1999 net sales. Worldwide sales to all bottlers of
Pepsi-Cola  and  Coca-Cola  branded  beverages,  including  licensees  utilizing
consolidated   purchasing   groups,   comprised   approximately  35  percent  of
consolidated net sales in 1999.

The  rigid  packaging  business  is  capital  intensive,  requiring  significant
investments in machinery and equipment. Profitability is sensitive to production
volumes, labor and the costs of certain raw materials,  such as aluminum,  steel
and plastic resin.

Raw materials used in the Company's  packaging business are generally  available
from several sources. Ball has secured what it considers to be adequate supplies
of  raw  materials  and  is  not  experiencing  any  shortages.   The  Company's
manufacturing   facilities  are  dependent,   in  varying   degrees,   upon  the
availability  of process  energy,  such as natural  gas and  electricity.  While
certain of these  energy  sources  may become  increasingly  in short  supply or
halted due to external factors,  including  potential Year 2000 noncompliance by
suppliers,  the Company cannot predict the effects,  if any, of such occurrences
on its future operations.

Research and  development  efforts in this  business  generally  seek to improve
manufacturing efficiencies and lower unit costs, principally raw material costs,
by reducing the material  content of containers  while  improving or maintaining
other physical properties such as material strength.  In addition,  research and
development  efforts are directed  toward the development of new sizes and types
of metal and plastic beverage and food  containers,  as well as new uses for the
current containers.

On August 10,  1998,  Ball  acquired  substantially  all the assets and  assumed
certain liabilities of the North American beverage can manufacturing business of
Reynolds Metals Company (Acquisition).  Subsequently,  the Company closed two of
the  acquired  plants  in early  1999 and a third  one in early  2000.  With the
Acquisition,  Ball expanded its metal beverage product line to include specialty
cans and became the largest metal beverage can producer in North America with an
annual production capacity of approximately 36 billion cans.

Metal  beverage  containers  and ends  represent  Ball's  largest  product line,
accounting  for  approximately  63  percent  of  1999  consolidated  net  sales.
Decorated  two-piece  aluminum  beverage  cans  are currently  being produced at
18 manufacturing facilities in the U.S., 2 facilities  in Canada and 1 in Puerto
Rico; ends are produced within 5 U.S. facilities.  Metal beverage containers are
sold primarily to fillers of carbonated  soft drinks,  beer and other  beverages
under annual or long-term supply contracts. Sales volumes of metal beverage cans
and ends in North  America  tend to be  highest  during  the  period  from April
through September.

Based on publicly available industry information, the Company estimates that its
North American metal beverage container  shipments were approximately 35 percent
of total U.S. and Canadian shipments for metal beverage containers.  The Company
also  estimates   that  its  three  largest   competitors   together   represent
substantially all of the remaining market shipments.

Also based on publicly available industry  information,  the U.S. metal beverage
container  industry  experienced  demand  growth at an  average  annual  rate of
approximately  1 percent  since 1990.  During this same  period,  the soft drink
portion of the  industry  added over 15 billion  units while the beer portion of
the industry lost  approximately  6 billion units (largely to glass  packaging).
The growth in industry-wide shipments was relatively flat from 1998 to 1999, but
increased approximately 2.2 percent from 1997 to 1998.

In  Canada,   metal  beverage  containers  have  captured   significantly  lower
percentages of the packaged beverage industry than in the U.S.,  particularly in
the packaged beer  industry,  in which the market share of metal  containers has
been hindered by trade barriers and restrictive taxes within Canada.

Beverage container industry  production  capacity in the U.S. and Canada exceeds
demand.  In order to balance  more closely  capacity  and demand  within its own
business,  Ball has  consolidated  its can and end  manufacturing  capacity into
fewer, more efficient  facilities with the closure of two of the acquired plants
in early 1999 and a third one in early 2000.

The aluminum beverage can continues to compete aggressively with other packaging
materials  in the beer and soft  drink  industries.  The glass  bottle has shown
resilience in the packaged beer  industry,  while the soft drink industry use of
the PET bottle has grown. The packaged beer industry has also begun the usage of
plastic beer bottles utilizing multi-layer technology.

Two-piece and three-piece steel food containers are manufactured in the U.S. and
Canada and sold primarily to food processors in the Midwestern United States and
Canada. In 1999 metal food container sales comprised approximately 14 percent of
consolidated net sales.  Sales volumes of metal food containers in North America
tend to be highest from June through  October as a result of seasonal  vegetable
and salmon packs.

In the metal food container  industry,  manufacturing  capacity in North America
exceeds market demand.  Approximately 34 billion steel food cans were shipped in
the U.S. and Canada in 1999, of which  approximately  16 percent were shipped by
Ball.

Polyethylene  terephthalate  (PET)  packaging  is Ball's  newest  product  line,
representing  slightly  less than 7 percent of  consolidated  net sales in 1999.
Demand  for  containers  made of PET has  increased  in the  beverage  packaging
industry  and is  expected  to  increase  in the food  packaging  industry  with
improved  technology  and  adequate  supplies of PET resin.  While PET  beverage
containers compete against both metal and glass, the historical  increase in the
sales of PET containers  has come  primarily at the expense of glass  containers
and through new market introductions.  The latest projections publicly available
indicate  that the  growth  in  overall  PET  demand  over the next two years is
expected to be between 5 and 10 percent.

Competition  in this  industry  includes  two  national  suppliers  and  several
regional  suppliers  and  self-manufacturers.  Service,  quality  and  price are
deciding competitive factors.  Increasingly,  the ability to produce customized,
differentiated plastic containers is an important competitive factor.

Ball  has  secured  long-term  customer  supply   agreements,   principally  for
carbonated beverage and water containers. The Company is also developing plastic
beer bottles using a multi-layer  technology  and is  introducing  this beverage
container  in limited  markets.  Other  products  such as juice  containers  are
potential candidates for expanding the plastics product line.

As part of Ball's  initiative to expand its presence  internationally,  in early
1997 the Company  acquired a controlling  interest in Ball Asia Pacific Limited,
formerly M.C. Packaging (Hong Kong) Limited.  Ball Asia Pacific Limited produces
two-piece  aluminum  beverage  containers,  three-piece  steel beverage and food
containers, aerosol cans, plastic packaging, metal crowns and printed and coated
metal.

With the  acquisition of Ball Asia Pacific  Limited,  the Company is the largest
beverage can  manufacturer  in the People's  Republic of China (PRC),  supplying
approximately  half of the  two-piece  aluminum  beverage  cans used in the PRC.
Capacity has grown rapidly in the PRC,  resulting in a supply/demand  imbalance.
Additionally,  uncertainty  in the Asian  financial  markets  has  resulted in a
decrease in exports of Company  products from the PRC to other Asian  countries.
As per  capita  consumption  in the  PRC is  significantly  lower  than  in more
developed  countries  and per  capita  income  in the PRC is  rising,  there  is
significant  potential for strong demand growth. In the interim,  however,  Ball
elected to delay the  start-up of two small  facilities  originally  expected to
become  operational in 1998 and to close,  in the early part of 1999, two of its
plants  located  in the  PRC  and  remove  from  service  certain  manufacturing
equipment at a third plant.


Ball  operates  more than 20  manufacturing  ventures  in the PRC.  The  Beijing
manufacturing facility is one of the most technologically advanced plants in the
PRC. The Company's 34 percent-owned  affiliate,  Sanshui Jianlibao FTB Packaging
Limited,  is the  largest  can  manufacturing  facility  in the PRC in  terms of
production capacity.  For more information on operations in the PRC, see Item 2,
Properties, and Exhibit 21.1, Subsidiary List.

Ball is a 50 percent equity owner of a joint venture with BBM Participacoes S.A.
to produce two-piece aluminum cans and ends in Brazil. Ball also participates in
joint ventures in Thailand,  Russia, Taiwan and the Philippines,  in addition to
providing manufacturing  technology and assistance to numerous can manufacturers
around the world.

Aerospace and Technologies Segment

The aerospace and  technologies  segment  includes civil space systems,  defense
systems,  commercial space  operations,  commercial  products and  technologies,
systems engineering services, advanced antenna and video systems and engineering
technology  products.  Sales in the aerospace and technologies segment accounted
for approximately 11 percent of consolidated net sales in 1999.

The majority of the aerospace and technologies  segment  business  involves work
under  relatively  short-term  contracts  (generally  one to five years) for the
National  Aeronautics and Space  Administration  (NASA), the U.S.  Department of
Defense (DoD) and foreign governments.  Contracts funded by the various agencies
of the federal government represented  approximately 86 percent of segment sales
in 1999. Major industry trends have not changed  significantly,  with Department
of Defense and NASA  budgets  remaining  relatively  flat.  However,  there is a
growing worldwide demand for commercial space  activities.  Consolidation in the
industry continues, and there is strong competition for business.

Civil  space  and  defense  systems  and  commercial  space  operations  include
hardware, software and services to both U.S. and  international  customers, with
emphases  on  space  science,   environment  and  Earth  sciences,  defense  and
intelligence,  manned  missions and  exploration.  Also included are the design,
manufacture  and testing of satellites,  ground systems and payloads  (including
launch  vehicle  integration),  as  well as  satellite  ground  station  control
hardware and software.

Other  hardware  activities  include:  electro-optics  products  for  spacecraft
guidance;   control   instruments   and  sensors  and  defense   subsystems  for
surveillance;  warning,  target  identification and attitude control;  cryogenic
systems for  reactant  storage;  sensor  cooling  devices  such as  closed-cycle
mechanical   refrigerators  and  open-cycle  solid  and  liquid  cryogens;  star
trackers,  which are general-purpose stellar attitude sensors; and fast-steering
mirrors.

Additionally,  the  aerospace  and  technologies  segment  provides  diversified
technical services and products to federal and local government agencies,  prime
contractors  and  commercial  organizations  for a broad  range  of  information
warfare, electronic warfare, avionics, intelligence,  training and space systems
problems.

Highlights for 1999 included the launch of the QuikSCAT commercial satellite bus
which was  developed  to measure  wind speeds and was  delivered in record time.
This was the first of Ball's growing commercial spacecraft bus product line. The
aerospace  and  technologies  segment also had a major role in the Chandra X-Ray
Observatory   mission,   launched  in  July  and  the  third  of  NASA's   Great
Observatories.  Ball built the aspect camera and the science  instrument  module
for Chandra. Other notable highlights included being awarded (1) the Deep Impact
contract,  the largest NASA contract the Company had ever  received,  (2) Ball's
first  spacecraft  contract to build a platform that will leave Earth's orbit to
travel to another  planet and (3) a contract to build two  spacecraft  that will
fly in formation to obtain high resolution interferometry images.

Additional  highlights  included the product  launch of a security  camera which
enables aircraft owners,  flight crew and airport security  personnel to monitor
activity  around the aircraft  under a broad range of light  conditions.  Ball's
wireless  communication products business expanded its product and customer base
with standard and custom  antennas for wireless base  stations,  wireless  local
loop and mobile satellite  tracking  services.  A contract to build pointing and
tracking subsystems for two laser communication  terminals extended Ball's entry
into the laser communication technology arena.

Backlog

Backlog of the aerospace and technologies segment was approximately $346 million
at December 31, 1999, and $296 million at December 31, 1998, and consists of the
aggregate contract value of firm orders, excluding amounts previously recognized
as revenue.  The 1999  backlog  includes  approximately  $266  million  which is
expected to be billed  during  2000,  with the  remainder  expected to be billed
thereafter.  Unfunded  amounts  included in backlog for certain firm  government
orders which are subject to annual  funding were  approximately  $200 million at
December  31,  1999.  Year-to-year  comparisons  of backlog are not  necessarily
indicative of the trend of future operations.


The Company's  aerospace and  technologies  segment has contracts  with the U.S.
government which have standard  termination  provisions.  The government retains
the right to terminate  contracts at its convenience.  However, if contracts are
terminated, Ball is entitled to be reimbursed for allowable costs and profits to
the date of termination relating to authorized work performed to such date. U.S.
government  contracts are also subject to reduction or modification in the event
of changes in government requirements or budgetary constraints.

                                     Patents

In the opinion of the  Company,  none of its active  patents is essential to the
successful operation of its business as a whole.

                            Research and Development

The "Research and  Development"  note in the 1999 Annual Report to  Shareholders
contains  information  on  Company  research  and  development  activity  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                   Environment

Aluminum,  steel and PET containers are recyclable,  and significant  amounts of
used  containers  are being  recycled and diverted  from the solid waste stream.
Using the most  recent  data  available,  in 1998  approximately  63  percent of
aluminum containers and 56 percent of steel cans sold in the U.S. were recycled.
In 1999  approximately  22 percent of the PET  containers  sold in the U.S. were
recycled.

Compliance  with  federal,  state and local laws  relating to  protection of the
environment  has not had a material,  adverse effect upon capital  expenditures,
earnings or competitive  position of the Company.  As more fully described under
Item 3, Legal Proceedings, the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency and various
state  environmental  agencies  have  designated  the  Company as a  potentially
responsible  party,  along with  numerous  other  companies,  for the cleanup of
several hazardous waste sites.  However, the Company's  information at this time
does not indicate that these matters will have a material,  adverse  effect upon
the liquidity, results of operations or financial condition of the Company.

Legislation  which would  prohibit,  tax or restrict  the sale or use of certain
types of  containers,  and  would  require  diversion  of solid  wastes  such as
packaging materials from disposal in landfills, has been or may be introduced in
the U.S. Congress and the Canadian Parliament,  in state and Canadian provincial
legislatures and other legislative bodies. While container  legislation has been
adopted in a few jurisdictions,  similar legislation has been defeated in public
referenda in several  other  states,  in local  elections  and in many state and
local legislative sessions. The Company anticipates that continuing efforts will
be made to consider  and adopt such  legislation  in many  jurisdictions  in the
future. If such legislation was widely adopted, it could have a material adverse
effect on the business of the Company, as well as on the container manufacturing
industry  generally,  in view of the Company's  substantial North American sales
and investment in metal and PET container manufacture.

                                    Employees

At the end of February 2000, the Company  employed  approximately  11,850 people
worldwide.

Item 2.    Properties

The Company's  properties  described below are well  maintained,  are considered
adequate and are being utilized for their intended purposes.

The Corporate  headquarters is located in Broomfield,  Colorado. The offices for
metal  packaging  operations  are in  Westminster,  Colorado.  Also  located  in
Westminster is the Edmund F. Ball Technical  Center,  which serves as a research
and  development  facility,  primarily for the metal packaging  operations.  The
offices,  pilot  line  and  research  and  development  center  for the  plastic
container business are located in Smyrna, Georgia.

Ball Aerospace & Technologies  Corp.  offices are located in Boulder,  Colorado.
The Colorado-based operations of this business occupy a variety of Company-owned
and leased  facilities in Boulder,  Broomfield and  Westminster,  which together
aggregate  approximately 1,300,000 square feet of office,  laboratory,  research
and development,  engineering and test, and manufacturing space. Other aerospace
and  technologies  operations  include  facilities in California,  Georgia,  New
Mexico, Ohio, Texas and Virginia.

Information  regarding the approximate size of the  manufacturing  locations for
significant  packaging  operations which are owned by the Company,  except where
indicated otherwise,  follows. Facilities in the process of being shut down have
been  excluded  from  the  list.  Where  certain   locations   include  multiple
facilities, the total approximate size for the location is noted. In addition to
the manufacturing facilities, the Company leases warehousing space.


                                                 Approximate
                                                Floor Space in
   Plant Location                                Square Feet
   Metal packaging manufacturing facilities:
   North America
   Blytheville, Arkansas (leased)                    29,000
   Springdale, Arkansas                             286,000
   Richmond, British Columbia                       194,000
   Fairfield, California                            340,000
   Torrance, California                             265,000
   Golden, Colorado                                 500,000
   Tampa, Florida                                   275,000
   Moultrie, Georgia                                152,000
   Kapolei, Hawaii                                  132,000
   Monticello, Indiana                              356,000
   Kansas City, Missouri                            225,000
   Saratoga Springs, New York                       153,000
   Wallkill, New York                               314,000
   Reidsville, North Carolina                       287,000
   Salisbury, North Carolina                        162,000
   Columbus, Ohio                                   167,000
   Findlay, Ohio                                    733,000
   Burlington, Ontario                              308,000
   Hamilton, Ontario                                360,000
   Whitby, Ontario                                  200,000
   Guayama, Puerto Rico                             225,000
   Baie d'Urfe, Quebec                              211,000
   Chestnut Hill, Tennessee                         300,000
   Conroe, Texas                                    180,000
   Fort Worth, Texas                                161,000
   Bristol, Virginia                                241,000
   Williamsburg, Virginia                           400,000
   Seattle, Washington                              166,000
   Weirton, West Virginia (leased)                   85,000
   DeForest, Wisconsin                               45,000
   Milwaukee, Wisconsin                             161,000

   Asia
   Beijing, PRC                                     272,000
   E-zhou, Hubei (Wuhan), PRC                       193,000
   Hong Kong, PRC                                   235,000
   Panyu, PRC                                       207,000
   Shenzhen, PRC                                    271,000
   Tianjin, PRC                                     318,000
   Xi'an, PRC                                       251,000
   Zhuhai, PRC                                      180,000

                                                 Approximate
                                                Floor Space in
   Plant Location                                Square Feet
   Plastic packaging manufacturing facilities:
   North America
   Chino, California (leased)                       240,000
   Ames, Iowa (leased)                              250,000
   Delran, New Jersey (leased)                      450,000
   Baldwinsville, New York (leased)                 240,000

   Asia
   Taicang, Jiangsu, PRC (leased)                   112,000
   Tianjin, PRC                                      62,000
   Tianjin, PRC (leased)                              5,000

In  addition  to the  consolidated  manufacturing  facilities,  the  Company has
ownership interests of 50 percent or less in packaging affiliates located in the
PRC, Brazil, Thailand, Taiwan and the Philippines.

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings

As previously reported, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) considers
the Company to be a  Potentially  Responsible  Party  (PRP) with  respect to the
Lowry  Landfill  site located east of Denver,  Colorado.  On June 12, 1992,  the
Company  was  served  with a  lawsuit  filed by the City and  County  of  Denver
(Denver) and Waste Management of Colorado,  Inc., seeking  contribution from the
Company and  approximately  38 other  companies.  The  Company  filed its answer
denying  the  allegations  of the  Complaint.  On July 8, 1992,  the Company was
served with a third-party  complaint filed by S.W.  Shattuck  Chemical  Company,
Inc.,  seeking  contribution  from the Company and other companies for the costs
associated  with  cleaning  up  the  Lowry  Landfill.  The  Company  denied  the
allegations of the complaint.

In July 1992 the Company entered into a settlement and indemnification agreement
with Denver, Chemical Waste Management,  Inc., and Waste Management of Colorado,
Inc.  (collectively  Waste)  pursuant to which Denver and Waste  dismissed their
lawsuit  against  the  Company and Waste  agreed to defend,  indemnify  and hold
harmless the Company from claims and lawsuits  brought by governmental  agencies
and other parties  relating to actions seeking  contributions  or remedial costs
from the Company for the cleanup of the site.  Several other companies which are
defendants  in the  above-referenced  lawsuits  had  already  entered  into  the
settlement  and   indemnification   agreement  with  Denver  and  Waste.   Waste
Management,  Inc.,  has agreed to guarantee the  obligations  for Chemical Waste
Management,  Inc., and Waste  Management of Colorado,  Inc. Denver and Waste may
seek  additional  payments from the Company if the response costs related to the
site exceed $319  million.  The Company might also be  responsible  for payments
(calculated  in 1992  dollars)  for any  additional  wastes  which may have been
disposed  of by the  Company  at the site but  which  are  identified  after the
execution of the settlement agreement.

At this  time,  there are no Lowry  Landfill  actions  in which the  Company  is
actively  involved.  Based on the  information  available  to the Company at the
present  time,  the Company  believes  that this matter will not have a material
adverse effect upon the liquidity,  results of operations or financial condition
of the Company.

As previously  reported,  the Company has been notified by Chrysler  Corporation
(Chrysler)  that  Chrysler,  Ford  Motor  Company  (Ford),  and  General  Motors
Corporation  have been named in a lawsuit  filed in the U.S.  District  Court in
Reno, Nevada, by Jerome Lemelson,  alleging  infringement of three of his vision
inspection  system  patents  used  by  defendants.  One or  more  of the  vision
inspection  systems  used  by the  defendants  may  have  been  supplied  by the
Company's former Industrial Systems Division (Division) or its predecessors. The
suit sought  injunctive  relief and unspecified  damages.  Chrysler notified the
Company that the Division may have indemnification responsibilities to Chrysler.
The Company responded to Chrysler that it appeared at that time that the systems
sold to  Chrysler  by the  Company  either  were not  covered by the  identified
patents or were sold to Chrysler  before the patents  were  issued.  On June 16,
1995, the Magistrate of the U.S. District Court declared the patents of Lemelson
unenforceable because of the long delays in prosecution.  On April 28, 1997, the
U.S.  District  Court Judge  vacated the report and  recommendation  of the U.S.
Magistrate.  On August  20,  1997,  the U.S.  Court of Appeals  for the  Federal
Circuit denied Ford's  petition for permission to appeal.  The Company  believes
that the  issues  in this  case  have  been  settled  and that  this case is now
concluded.  In addition,  under an agreement in connection  with the spin-off of
Alltrista  Corporation from Ball in 1993, Alltrista has agreed to indemnify Ball
for liabilities arising from this matter. Based on this information, the Company
believes  that this case and the Company's  alleged  indirect  involvement  as a
machine vision  inspection  system supplier to Chrysler will not have a material
adverse effect upon the liquidity,  results of operations or financial condition
of the Company and that this matter is now concluded.

The Company  previously  reported that on or about March 19, 1999,  the Lemelson
Medical, Education and Research Foundation, Limited Partnership (Lemelson), gave
notice to the Company that the Company allegedly infringed certain patents owned
by that  entity  which  were  alleged  to cover  machine  vision  and  automatic
identification  equipment.  Lemelson  alleged that the patented  machine  vision
methods  cover  production,   inspection  and  production  control   operations,
including inspection for flaws or defects in conformance with specifications and
standards.  Automatic  identification  allegedly  covers  bar code  recognition.
Lemelson  claims that it also has patents  pending that broadly cover  something
referred to as flexible  manufacturing.  Lemelson  offered the Company a license
under all patents,  and patents  pending,  owned or  controlled by Lemelson with
certain  irrelevant  exceptions.  Pursuant to a confidential  license agreement,
this matter has now been  concluded.  The Company  believes that this matter has
been concluded without any material adverse effect on the liquidity,  results of
operations or financial condition of the Company.

As  previously  reported,  on April 24,  1992,  the Company was  notified by the
Muncie Race Track  Steering  Committee  (Steering  Committee)  that the Company,
through its former Consumer Products Division and former Zinc Products Division,
may be a PRP with  respect  to waste  disposal  at the  Muncie  Race  Track Site
located in Delaware County,  Indiana.  The Steering  Committee  alleges that the
Company was a contributor to the site. The Steering Committee requested that the
Company pay 2 percent of the cleanup  costs which are  estimated at this time to
be $10 million. The Company declined to participate in the PRP group because the
Company's records do not indicate the Company contributed hazardous waste to the
site.  Based upon the  information  available  to the Company at this time,  the
Company  does not believe that this matter will have a material  adverse  effect
upon the liquidity, results of operations or financial condition of the Company.

As  previously  reported,  on August 1, 1997,  the EPA sent notice of  potential
liability letters to 19 owners,  operators, and waste generators concerning past
activities  at one or more of the four Rocky  Flats  parcels at the Rocky  Flats
Industrial Park site located in Jefferson County,  Colorado. Based upon sampling
at the site in 1996,  the EPA  determined  that  additional  site work  would be
required to determine the extent of  contamination  and the possible  cleanup of
the site.  The EPA  requested  the  letter  recipients  conduct  an  engineering
evaluation and cost analysis (EE/CA) of the site. Fourteen companies,  including
the  Company,  have  agreed to  undertake  the  study.  The EPA is also  seeking
reimbursement for approximately  $1.5 million which it has spent at the site. On
December 19, 1997, the EPA issued an  Administrative  Order to conduct the EE/CA
to 18  owners,  operators,  and  generators  associated  with the site.  The EPA
alleges  that  the  Company  is the  ninth  largest  generator  of the  thirteen
generators issued Administrative  Orders. The PRP group has undertaken the EE/CA
at a cost of  about  $850,000,  of which  the  Company  has  paid  approximately
$70,000.  Based upon the information  available to the Company at this time, the
Company  does not believe that this matter will have a material  adverse  effect
upon the liquidity, results of operations or financial condition of the Company.

As previously reported,  the Company was notified on June 19, 1989, that the EPA
has designated the Company and numerous other companies as PRPs  responsible for
the  cleanup of certain  hazardous  wastes that were  released at the  Spectron,
Inc., site located in Elkton, Maryland. In December 1989 the Company, along with
other companies whose alleged  hazardous  waste  contributions  to the Spectron,
Inc., site were considered to be de minimis, entered into a settlement agreement
with the EPA for cleanup costs incurred in connection with the removal action of
aboveground site areas. By a letter dated September 29, 1995, the Company, along
with other above-described PRPs, was notified by the EPA that it was negotiating
with the  large-volume  PRPs another  consent  order for  performance  of a site
environmental study as a prerequisite to long-term remediation.  The EPA and the
large-volume  PRPs have stated that a second de minimis buyout for settlement of
liability for performance of all  environmental  studies and site remediation is
being  formulated  and an  offer to  participate  therein  has been  made to the
Company.  The Company has joined with a group of de minimis  PRPs to negotiate a
reduction (i.e., a lower price per gallon assessment) in the proposed de minimis
settlement offer. The Company's  information at this time does not indicate that
this matter will have a material  adverse effect upon the liquidity,  results of
operations or financial condition of the Company.

As previously reported, the Company was named a PRP with respect to the Solvents
Recovery Site located in Southington,  Connecticut. According to the information
received  by  the  Company,   it  is  alleged   that  the  Company   contributed
approximately  .08816  percent  of  the  waste  contributed  to  the  site  on a
volumetric basis. The Company responded and has investigated the accuracy of the
total volume alleged to be attributable  to the Company.  The Company joined the
PRP group during 1993. In February 1995 the Company  executed a trust  agreement
whereby  certain  contributions  will be made to fund the  administration  of an
ongoing  work group.  The group  members  finalized an  Administrative  Order on
Consent  for  Removal  Action and  Remedial  Investigation/Feasibility  Study on
February 6, 1997,  pursuant to which the group  members  will  perform a removal
action and  completion  of a remedial  investigation  and  feasibility  study in
connection with the site. Based upon the information available to the Company at
this time,  the Company  does not believe  that this matter will have a material
adverse effect upon the liquidity,  results of operations or financial condition
of the Company.

As  previously  reported,  on or about  June  14,  1990,  the El Monte  plant of
Ball-InCon  Glass Packaging Corp., a then wholly owned subsidiary of the Company
[renamed Ball Glass  Container  Corporation  (Ball Glass)],  the assets of which
were  contributed  in  September  1995 into a joint  venture  with  Compagnie de
Saint-Gobain  (Saint-Gobain),  now known as  Ball-Foster  Glass  Container  Co.,
L.L.C., and wholly owned by Saint Gobain, received a general notification letter
and information  request from the EPA,  Region IX,  notifying Ball Glass that it
may have a potential liability as defined in Section 107(a) of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response,  Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) with respect to
the San Gabriel Valley areas 1-4 Superfund  Sites located in Los Angeles County,
California.  The EPA requested  certain  information  from Ball Glass,  and Ball
Glass  responded.  The Company  received  notice from the City of El Monte that,
pursuant to a proposed city economic  redevelopment  plan,  the City proposed to
commence  groundwater  cleanup by a pump and treat  remediation  process.  As of
March  1,  2000,  the City  has not  commenced  this  remediation.  A PRP  group
organized and drafted a PRP group agreement,  which Ball Glass executed. The PRP
group retained an environmental engineering firm to critique the EPA studies and
any proposed remediation.

The PRP  group  completed  negotiations  with  the EPA  over  the  terms  of the
administrative  consent order,  statement of work for the remedial investigation
phase of the cleanup,  and the interim allocation  arrangement between PRP group
members to fund the  remedial  investigation.  The interim  allocation  approach
requires that any payment will be based upon  contribution to pollution.  Ball's
interim  allocation  is 5.79  percent.  The  administrative  consent  order  was
executed by the PRP group and the EPA. The EPA also  accepted  the  statement of
work for the remedial investigation phase of the cleanup. The PRP group retained
an   environmental   engineering   consulting   firm  to  perform  the  remedial
investigation.  As required under the  administrative  consent order,  the group
submitted to the EPA copies of all environmental studies conducted at the plant,
the majority of which had already been furnished to the State of California. The
EPA  then  approved  the  work  plan,  project  management  plan,  and the  data
management    plan   portions   of   the   PRP   group's    proposed    remedial
investigation/feasibility  study  (RI/FS).  The  group  funded  the  RI/FS.  The
environmental consulting firm retained by the PRP group submitted to the EPA its
Feasibility  Study  Technical  Memorandum 1 concerning the site.  Five potential
remedial action plans were identified in the study, ranging from no action to an
extensive  groundwater  remediation  project for both shallow and deep aquifers.
The costs of such  remedies  range from  minimal  costs for no action to between
$10.5 to $25 million for the three  groundwater pump and treat options proposed.
The PRP group is  negotiating  with the EPA over the remedy  selections  for the
Record of  Decision  and has formed an  allocation  committee  for making  final
allocation of remediation  costs between group  members.  The EPA has informally
told the PRP group that it will likely choose the most extensive of the proposed
remedies for incorporation  into the Record of Decision.  The PRP group believes
the  selection  of such a remedy  is  premature  in that the PRP  group is still
evaluating  additional  remedial options.  The PRP group has commenced the final
allocation  process.  The  Allocation  Committee has been assigned such task and
continues the development of the method for final  allocation of costs among PRP
group  members.  Although  final  allocation  has not been made,  the Allocation
Committee  will  allocate  costs so that PRP group members  responsible  for the
majority of the contamination  will pay a higher percentage of the cleanup costs
required by the Record of Decision, once it is finalized and issued. Since final
costs will be allocated  under such method,  Ball Glass  decided to perform soil
vapor analysis testing to compliment its soil and groundwater  sampling analyses
previously  conducted.  Soil vapor  analysis  was  conducted  during the week of
October 25, 1999. In a significant positive  development,  the  results  of  all
44 vapor probe locations were non-detect for concern constituents sampled (i.e.,
those pollutants  present in the area  groundwater).  On November 11, 1999, Ball
Glass  informed the PRP group of these  results  which should reduce Ball Glass'
final cost  allocation  under such  allocation  method.  On March 14, 2000, Ball
Glass made a formal  presentation  to the  Allocation  Committee and  requested,
based upon its analytical  data  described  above, that its final  allocation be
reduced  from the 5.79  percent  interim  allocation  percentage.  In  addition,
Commercial Union, the Corporation's general liability insurer, is defending this
governmental action and is paying the cost of defense including attorneys' fees.
Based on the  information,  or lack  thereof,  available  to the  Company at the
present  time,  the  Company  is unable to  express  an opinion as to the actual
exposure of the Company;  however, the Company does not believe that this matter
will have a material adverse effect upon the liquidity, results of operations or
financial condition of the Company.

As previously reported,  in March of 1992, William Hallahan,  an employee at the
Company's metal beverage container plant in Saratoga Springs,  New York, filed a
workers'  compensation  claim  alleging  that he suffers from a form of leukemia
that was caused by his  exposure  to certain  chemicals  used in the plant.  The
Company  denied the  charge,  and  hearings  on the matter  were held before the
Workers'  Compensation  Board  of the  State  of New  York.  The  testimony  was
concluded in April 1996. On January 14, 1997, the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
filed his Memorandum of Decision finding in favor of the claimant.  The decision
was appealed,  and the Workers' Compensation Board remanded the case back to the
ALJ for  further  findings.  The ALJ  entered a decision  against the Company on
January 8, 1998,  as  corrected on February 2, 1998,  and February 4, 1998.  The
Company  appealed  all of the  decisions  to the Appeals  Bureau of the Workers'
Compensation  Board on February 6, 1998. In June 1999 a three-judge panel of the
Workers'  Compensation  Board  reversed  the  decision of the ALJ and found that
substantial  evidence does not show a causal relationship between the claimant's
workplace and his disease in order to support a causal link and conclude that he
developed an occupational  disease. The Board then closed the case. The claimant
has appealed the case to the full Workers'  Compensation Board and alternatively
to the Appellate  Division of the New York State judicial  system.  Both parties
have  filed  briefs  with the full  Workers'  Compensation  Board.  Based on the
information,  or lack thereof, available to the Company at the present time, the
Company  does not believe that this matter will have a material  adverse  effect
upon the liquidity, results of operations or financial condition of the Company.

As previously reported,  on or about December 31, 1992, William Hallahan and his
wife  filed  suit in the  Supreme  Court of the  State of New  York,  County  of
Saratoga,  against certain  manufacturers  of solvents,  coatings and equipment,
including Somerset  Technologies Inc. and Belvac Production  Machinery,  seeking
damages in the amount of $15 million for allegedly  causing leukemia by exposing
him to harmful toxins.  Somerset and Belvac filed third-party complaints seeking
contribution  from the Company  for  damages  that they might be required to pay
William Hallahan.  Based upon information available to the Company at this time,
the Company  believes that this matter will not have a material  adverse  effect
upon the liquidity, results of operations or financial condition of the Company.


As  previously  reported,  on January 5, 1996,  an  individual  named  Tangee E.
Daniels,  on behalf of herself and two minor children and four other plaintiffs,
served the Company with a lawsuit filed in the 193rd Judicial  District Court of
Dallas  County,  Texas.  The suit  alleges  that the  Company's  metal  beverage
container  operations and over 50 other defendants disposed of certain hazardous
waste at the  hazardous  waste  disposal  site  operated by  Gibraltar  Chemical
Resources,  Inc.,  located in Winona,  Smith  County,  Texas.  The lawsuit  also
alleges that American Ecology Corp.,  American Ecology Management Corp.,  Mobley
Environmental  Services,  Inc., John A. Mobley, James Mobley,  Daniel Mobley and
Thomas Mobley were managers for Gibraltar and failed to appropriately manage the
waste  disposed of or treated at the  Gibraltar  site,  resulting  in release of
hazardous substances into the environment.  The plaintiffs allege that they have
been denied the  enjoyment  of their  property and have  sustained  personal and
bodily  injury  and  damages  due to the  release of  hazardous  waste and toxic
substances  into the environment  caused by all the  defendants.  The plaintiffs
allege numerous causes of action under state law and common law. Plaintiffs also
seek to recover damages for past, present, and future medical treatment;  mental
and  emotional  anguish and  trauma;  loss of wages and  earning  capacity;  and
physical  impairment,  as well as punitive  damages and prejudgment  interest in
unspecified amounts. On May 4, 1998, the plaintiffs in the Daniels lawsuit filed
for an involuntary  dismissal of their complaint without prejudice.  Three other
lawsuits have been filed against substantially the same defendants:  Williams v.
Akzo Nobel  Chemicals,  Inc. (filed on January 2, 1996, in the District Court of
Smith County, Texas, dismissed but appealed);  and Steich v. Akzo et al., (filed
March 4, 1996, in the 241st  Judicial  District  Court of Smith  County,  Texas,
voluntarily dismissed without prejudice);  and Adams v. Akzo et al (filed August
30, 1996, in the 236th Judicial  District Court of Tarrant County,  Texas).  The
Company  is a party  defendant  in each  lawsuit.  The  Company  has  denied the
allegations of each  complaint and has been  defending each matter.  The Company
has settled these cases and believes  that these cases are now closed.  Based on
the  information  available  to the  Company at the  present  time,  the Company
believes  that this  matter  will not have a material  adverse  effect  upon the
liquidity, results of operations or financial condition of the Company.

As previously  reported,  on September 21, 1998, Daiei, Inc. (Daiei), a Japanese
corporation,  with its  principal  place of business in Tokyo,  Japan,  sued the
Company  in U.S.  District  Court,  Southern  District  of  Indiana,  Evansville
Division.  Daiei alleges it is engaged in the retail sale of consumer  goods and
food  products at stores  throughout  Japan.  Daiei  alleges  that it  purchased
defective beer cans filled with beer from Evansville Brewing Company, Inc. (EBC)
between April 5, 1995, and July 20, 1995.  Daiei further  alleges that the metal
containers  were  defectively  assembled  and  sealed  by EBC at its  production
facility  in  Evansville,  Indiana,  upon  a  machine  which  was  inspected  by
representatives  of Ball.  Daiei further alleges that Ball breached its warranty
to provide metal containers that performed in a commercially  reasonable manner,
and that  Ball's  representatives  were  negligent  in the repair of the sealing
equipment  owned by EBC. Daiei seeks damages for the lost containers and product
in the amount of approximately $6 million.  The Company has retained counsel and
is defending this case. The parties are engaged in the discovery process,  and a
Motion to Dismiss has been filed by the Company on several legal grounds but the
Motion has not been ruled on by the court. Based upon the information  available
to the  Company at the present  time,  the  Company  does not believe  that this
matter  will have a  material  adverse  effect  upon the  liquidity,  results of
operations or financial condition of the Company.

On January 27, 1999, Plastic Solutions of Texas, Inc. (PST) and Kurt H. Ruppman,
Sr.  (Ruppman)  filed  a  Statement  of  Claim  with  the  American  Arbitration
Association alleging the Company breached a contract between the Company and PST
and  Ruppman  relating  to the  grant of a license  under  certain  patents  and
technology  owned by PST and Ruppman  relating to the use of  cryogenics  in the
manufacture of hot fill PET bottles.  The Company has denied the  allegations of
the complaint.  An arbitration hearing commenced on March 7, 2000, and continued
through March 10, 2000,  and has been adjourned  until April 10, 2000.  Based on
the lack of  information  available  to the  Company at the  present  time,  the
Company is unable to express an opinion to the actual  exposure of the  Company;
however,  the  Company  does not  believe  that this matter will have a material
adverse effect upon the liquidity,  results of operations or financial condition
of the Company.

In 1998 various  consumers filed toxic tort litigation in the Superior Court for
Los Angeles County (Trial Court) against  various water  companies  operating in
the San Gabriel Valley Basin. The water companies  petitioned the Trial Court to
remove this action to the  California  Public  Utilities  Commission.  The Trial
Court agreed.  The plaintiffs  appealed this decision to the California Court of
Appeals which reversed the Trial Court. One  non-regulated  utility has appealed
this  decision  to the  California  Supreme  Court.  Pending  completion  of the
appellate  process,  the Trial Court stayed  further  action in this  litigation
except that the  plaintiffs  were permitted to add  additional  defendants.  The
Trial Court  consolidated  the six separate  lawsuits in the Northeast  District
(Pasadena) and designated the case of Adler, et al. v. Southern California Water
Company,  et al.,  as the lead  case.  In late  March  1999,  Ball-Foster  Glass
Container Co., L.L.C.,  which the Company no longer owns, received a summons and
amended  complaint  based  on  its  ownership  of  the  El  Monte  glass  plant.
Ball-Foster Glass tendered the lawsuit to the Company for defense and indemnity.
The  Company  has in  turn  tendered  this  lawsuit  to its  liability  carrier,
Commercial Union, for defense and indemnity.  Plaintiffs appear to be proceeding
to join all companies which are alleged to be Potentially Responsible Parties in
the various  operable units in the San Gabriel Valley  Superfund Site.  Based on
the information,  or lack thereof, available to the Company at the present time,
the  Company is unable to express  an opinion as to the actual  exposure  of the
Company for this  matter;  however,  based on the  information  available to the
Company at the present time,  the Company does not believe that this matter will
have a material  adverse  affect upon the  liquidity,  results of  operations or
financial condition of the Company.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders

There  were no  matters  submitted  to the  security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of 1999.

                                     Part II

Item 5.  Market  for  the  Registrant's  Common  Stock  and  Related Stockholder
         Matters

Ball  Corporation  common  stock  (BLL) is traded on the New York,  Chicago  and
Pacific  Stock  Exchanges.  There  were  6,540  common shareholders of record on
March 3, 2000.

Other information required by Item 5 appears under the caption, "Quarterly Stock
Prices  and  Dividends,"  in the  1999  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The  information  required by Item 6 for the five years ended December 31, 1999,
appearing in the section titled,  "Five-Year Review of Selected Financial Data,"
of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations" in the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated  herein by
reference.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The  information  required by Item 7A appears under the caption,  "Financial and
Derivative Instruments and Risk Management," within the "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of  Operations"  section of the
1999 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The  consolidated  financial  statements  and notes  thereto of the 1999  Annual
Report   to    Shareholders,    together    with   the    report    thereon   of
PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP, dated January 26, 2000, included in the 1999 Annual
Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
         Financial Disclosure

There were no matters required to be reported under this item.

                                    Part III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company as of December 31, 1999, were as follows:

1.   George A. Sissel, 63, Chairman and Chief Executive  Officer,  since January
     1998; Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, 1996-1998; President
     and  Chief  Executive  Officer,   1995-1996;  Acting  President  and  Chief
     Executive  Officer,  1994-1995;  Senior Vice President,  Corporate Affairs;
     Corporate Secretary and General Counsel,  1993-1995; Senior Vice President,
     Corporate  Secretary  and  General  Counsel,   1987-1993;  Vice  President,
     Corporate Secretary and General Counsel, 1981-1987.

2.   R. David Hoover,  54, Vice Chairman,  President and Chief Financial Officer
     effective  January 1, 2000;  Vice  Chairman  and Chief  Financial  Officer,
     1998-1999; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 1997-1998;
     Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, 1996-1997;
     Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial  Officer,  1995-1996;  Senior
     Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,  1992-1995;  Vice President and
     Treasurer,  1988-1992;  Assistant  Treasurer,  1987-1988;  Vice  President,
     Finance and Administration,  Technical Products, 1985-1987; Vice President,
     Finance and Administration, Management Services Division, 1983-1985.

3.   George A. Matsik, 60, Retired effective December 31, 1999; President, Chief
     Operating  Officer,   Packaging  Operations,   1998-1999;   Executive  Vice
     President and Chief Operating  Officer,  Packaging  Operations,  1997-1998;
     Chief  Operating  Officer,  Packaging  Operations,   1996-1997;  President,
     International Packaging Operations, 1995-1996.

4.   Donald C. Lewis,  57, Vice President and General  Counsel,  since September
     1998; Vice President,  Assistant  Corporate  Secretary and General Counsel,
     1997-1998;  General Counsel and Assistant Corporate  Secretary,  1995-1997;
     Associate  General Counsel and Assistant  Corporate  Secretary,  1990-1995;
     Associate General Counsel, 1983-1990; Assistant General Counsel, 1980-1983;
     Senior Attorney, 1978-1980; General Attorney, 1974-1978.


5.   Albert R.  Schlesinger,  58, Vice President and  Controller,  since January
     1987; Assistant Controller, 1976-1986.

6.   Raymond J. Seabrook, 48, Senior Vice President,  Finance, since April 1998;
     Vice  President,  Planning  and  Control,  1996-1998;  Vice  President  and
     Treasurer,  1992-1996;  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial  Officer,
     Ball Packaging Products Canada, Inc., 1988-1992.

7.   Harold L. Sohn, 53, Vice President,  Corporate Relations, since March 1993;
     Director, Industry Affairs, Packaging Products, 1988-1993.

8.   David A. Westerlund, 49, Senior Vice President, Administration, since April
     1998;  Vice President,  Administration,  1997-1998;  Vice President,  Human
     Resources,  1994-1997;  Senior Director,  Corporate Human  Resources,  July
     1994-December  1994;  Vice President,  Human Resources and  Administration,
     Ball  Glass  Container  Corporation,   1988-1994;  Vice  President,   Human
     Resources, Ball-InCon Glass Packaging Corp., 1987-1988.

Other  information  required by Item 10 appearing  under the caption,  "Director
Nominees and Continuing  Directors," on pages 3 through 5 and under the caption,
"Section  16(a)  Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance" on page 15 of the
Company's proxy statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A dated March 15, 2000,
is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The  information  required by Item 11 appearing  under the  caption,  "Executive
Compensation,"  on pages 7 through 13 of the  Company's  proxy  statement  filed
pursuant to  Regulation  14A dated March 15,  2000,  is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The  information  required  by Item 12  appearing  under  the  caption,  "Voting
Securities and Principal  Shareholders," on pages 1 and 2 of the Company's proxy
statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A dated March 15, 2000, is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information  required by Item 13 appearing under the caption,  "Ratification
of the  Appointment  of Independent  Accountants,  " on page 15 of the Company's
proxy  statement  filed  pursuant to  Regulation  14A dated March 15,  2000,  is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                     Part IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)     (1) Financial Statements:

        The  following   documents   included  in  the  1999  Annual  Report  to
        Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8:

            Consolidated statements of earnings - Years ended December 31, 1999,
            1998 and 1997

            Consolidated balance sheets - December 31, 1999 and 1998

            Consolidated statements of cash flows  -  Years  ended  December 31,
            1999, 1998 and 1997

            Consolidated  statements of shareholders'  equity and  comprehensive
            earnings - Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

            Notes to consolidated financial statements

            Report of independent accountants

        (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

        There were no financial statement schedules required under this item.

        (3) Exhibits:

        See the Index to Exhibits  which appears at the end of this document and
        which is incorporated by reference herein.

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K:

        The registrant did not file or amend reports on Form 8-K during 1999.


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                  BALL CORPORATION
                                  (Registrant)

                                  By:  /s/George A. Sissel
                                       ------------------------------
                                       George A. Sissel, Chairman and
                                       Chief Executive Officer
                                       March 30, 2000

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed by the following  persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated below.

(1)     Principal Executive Officer:

        /s/George A. Sissel                   Chairman and Chief Executive
        --------------------------------      Officer
        George A. Sissel                      March 30, 2000

(2)     Principal Financial Accounting Officer:


        /s/R. David Hoover                    Vice Chairman, President and Chief
        --------------------------------      Financial Officer
        R. David Hoover                       March 30, 2000

(3)     Controller:

        /s/Albert R. Schlesinger              Vice President and Controller
        --------------------------------      March 30, 2000
        Albert R. Schlesinger

(4)     A Majority of the Board of Directors:

        /s/Frank A. Bracken            *      Director
        --------------------------------      March 30, 2000
        Frank A. Bracken

        /s/Howard M. Dean              *      Director
        --------------------------------      March 30, 2000
        Howard M. Dean

        /s/John T. Hackett             *      Director
        --------------------------------      March 30, 2000
        John T. Hackett

        /s/R. David Hoover             *      Director
        --------------------------------      March 30, 2000
        R. David Hoover

        /s/John F. Lehman              *      Director
        --------------------------------      March 30, 2000
        John F. Lehman

        /s/Ruel C. Mercure, Jr.        *      Director
        --------------------------------      March 30, 2000
        Ruel C. Mercure, Jr.

        /s/Jan Nicholson               *      Director
        --------------------------------      March 30, 2000
        Jan Nicholson

        /s/George A. Sissel            *      Chairman, Chief Executive
        --------------------------------      Officer and Director
        George A. Sissel                      March 30, 2000

        /s/William P. Stiritz          *      Director
        --------------------------------      March 30, 2000
        William P. Stiritz

        /s/Stuart A. Taylor II         *      Director
        --------------------------------      March 30, 2000
        Stuart A. Taylor II


*By George A. Sissel as Attorney-in-Fact pursuant to a Limited Power of Attorney
executed by the directors  listed above,  which Power of Attorney has been filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

                                   By: /s/George A. Sissel
                                       ------------------------------
                                       George A. Sissel
                                       As Attorney-in-Fact
                                       March 30, 2000


                        Ball Corporation and Subsidiaries
                           Annual Report on Form 10-K

                      For the year ended December 31, 1999

                                Index to Exhibits

Exhibit
Number   Description of Exhibit
- -------  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 3.i     Amended  Articles  of  Incorporation  as of  November  26,  1990 (filed
         by incorporation  by  reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated
         November 30, 1990) filed December 13, 1990.

 3.ii    Bylaws  of  Ball  Corporation  as  amended  September 23,  1998,  filed
         March 29, 1999.

 4.1(a)  Senior Note  Indenture, dated August 10, 1998, among Ball  Corporation,
         certain  subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation  and The Bank of New
         York,  as  Senior Note Trustee (filed by  incorporation by reference to
         the Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 10, 1998) filed  August 25,
         1998.

 4.1(b)  Senior Registration Rights Agreement, dated August 10, 1998, among Ball
         Corporation,   Lehman Brothers Inc.,  Merrill Lynch,  Pierce,  Fenner &
         Smith Incorporated,  BancAmerica  Robertson  Stephens,   First  Chicago
         Capital  Markets,  Inc.,  and  certain  subsidiary  guarantors  of Ball
         Corporation (filed by  incorporation by reference to the Current Report
         on Form 8-K dated August 10, 1998) filed August 25, 1998.

 4.2(a)  Senior  Subordinated  Note Indenture, dated August 10, 1998, among Ball
         Corporation, certain subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation and  The
         Bank  of  New York,  as  Senior  Subordinated  Note  Trustee  (filed by
         incorporation by  reference  to  the  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated
         August 10, 1998) filed August 25, 1998.

 4.2(b)  Senior  Subordinated  Registration  Rights  Agreement, dated August 10,
         1998,  among  Ball Corporation,  Lehman  Brothers Inc.,  Merrill Lynch,
         Pierce, Fenner & Smith  Incorporated,  BancAmerica Robertson  Stephens,
         First Chicago Capital Markets, Inc.,  and certain subsidiary guarantors
         of Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference to the Current
         Report on Form 8-K dated August 10, 1998) filed August 25, 1998.

 4.3     Dividend  distribution  payable  to shareholders of record on August 4,
         2006, of one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding  share
         of common stock under the Rights  Agreement dated as of July 24,  1996,
         between the Company and The First Chicago  Trust  Company  of New  York
         (filed  by  incorporation  by reference  to the Form 8-A   Registration
         Statement, No. 1-7349, dated August 1, 1996, and filed August  2, 1996,
         and to the Company's Form 8-K Report dated February 13, 1996, and filed
         February 14, 1996).


Exhibit
Number   Description of Exhibit
- -------  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.1     1980 Stock  Option and Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, as amended, 1983
         Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Rights Plan (filed by incorporation
         by reference to the Form S-8 Registration Statement, No. 2-82925) filed
         April 27, 1983.

10.2     1988 Restricted Stock Plan and 1988 Stock Option and Stock Appreciation
         Rights Plan (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to  the  Form S-8
         Registration Statement, No. 33-21506) filed April 27, 1988.

10.3     Ball Corporation Deferred   Incentive   Compensation   Plan  (filed  by
         incorporation  by reference to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for  the
         year ended December 31, 1987) filed March 25, 1988.

10.4     Ball Corporation 1986 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended  July 1,
         1994 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to the Quarterly Report  on
         Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3, 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

10.5     Ball Corporation 1988 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended  July 1,
         1994 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to  the Quarterly Report on
         Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3, 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

10.6     Ball Corporation 1989 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as  amended July 1,
         1994 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to the Quarterly Report  on
         Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3, 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

10.7     Amended and Restated Form of Severance Benefit  Agreement  which exists
         between  the  Company  and  its  executive  officers,  effective  as of
         August  1,  1994   and   as  amended  on  January  24,  1996, (filed by
         incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
         quarter ended March 22, 1996) filed May 15, 1996.

10.8     Stock Purchase Agreement dated  as  of  June  29,  1989,  between  Ball
         Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. (filed by incorporation  by reference
         to the Quarterly Report  on  Form 10-Q for  the  quarter  ended July 2,
         1989) filed August 15, 1989.

10.9     Ball Corporation 1986 Deferred  Compensation  Plan  for  Directors,  as
         amended October 27, 1987  (filed  by  incorporation by reference to the
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  year ended December 31, 1990) filed
         April 1, 1991.

10.10    1991  Restricted  Stock  Plan  for  Nonemployee   Directors   of   Ball
         Corporation (filed  by   incorporation  by  reference  to the Form  S-8
         Registration Statement, No. 33-40199) filed April 26, 1991.

10.11    Ball Corporation Economic Value Added Incentive Compensation Plan dated
         January 1, 1994 (filed by  incorporation  by reference  to  the  Annual
         Report on  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended  December 31, 1994)  filed
         March 29, 1995.


Exhibit
Number   Description of Exhibit
- -------  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.12    Ball Corporation 1997 Stock  Incentive Plan (filed by incorporation  by
         reference to the Form S-8 Registration Statement, No. 333-26361), filed
         May 1, 1997.

10.13    Agreement and Plan of Merger among Ball Corporation, Ball Sub Corp. and
         Heekin  Can,  Inc. dated as of December  1, 1992,  and as amended as of
         December  28,  1992   (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to  the
         Registration  Statement  on  Form S-4, No. 33-58516) filed February 19,
         1993.

10.14    Distribution Agreement between Ball Corporation and Alltrista (filed by
         incorporation  by  reference  to  the  Alltrista  Corporation  Form  8,
         Amendment No. 3 to Form 10, No. 0-21052, dated December 31, 1992) filed
         March 17, 1993.

10.15    1993 Stock  Option  Plan  (filed  by  incorporation by reference to the
         Form S-8 Registration Statement, No. 33-61986) filed April 30, 1993.

10.16    Retirement  Agreement  dated June 17,  1994,  between  Delmont A. Davis
         and  Ball  Corporation  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference to the
         Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3, 1994) filed
         August 17, 1994.

10.17    Ball-InCon Glass Packaging Corp. Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended
         July 1, 1994 (filed by  incorporation  by  reference  to  the Quarterly
         Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended  July 3,  1994)  filed
         August 17, 1994.

10.18    Retention  Agreement  dated June 22, 1994, between Donovan B. Hicks and
         Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference  to the Quarterly
         Report on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended  July  3,  1994)  filed
         August 17, 1994.

10.19    Ball Corporation Supplemental  Executive   Retirement  Plan  (filed  by
         incorporation  by  reference to the  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for
         the quarter ended October 2, 1994) filed November 15, 1994.

10.20    Ball  Corporation   Split   Dollar   Life   Insurance   Plan  (filed by
         incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
         quarter  ended October 2, 1994) filed November 15, 1994.

10.21    Ball Corporation Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan, dated October 25, 1994,
         as amended October 23, 1996 (filed by incorporation by reference to the
         Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 1996)
         filed November 13, 1996.

10.22a   Ball Corporation Merger Related,  Special  Incentive Plan for Operating
         Executives  which  provides for Stock Option grants in  which  the five
         named executive  officers  participate  and which  grants are  referred
         to in the Executive Compensation section in the Ball Corporation  Proxy
         Statement  dated  March 15, 1999.  (The form of  the option  grants was
         filed March 29, 1999).


Exhibit
Number   Description of Exhibit
- -------  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

10.22b   Ball Corporation Merger Related,  Special  Incentive Plan for Operating
         Executives which provides for Restricted  Stock grant in which the five
         named  executive officers  participate and which grants are referred to
         in  the  Executive  Compensation  section of the Ball Corporation Proxy
         Statement dated March 15, 1999. (The form of the  restricted grants was
         filed March 29, 1999.)

10.22c   Ball Corporation Merger  Related  Special  Incentive Plan for Operating
         Executives  which provides for certain cash  incentive  payments  based
         upon  the  attainment  of  certain  performance  criteria. This plan is
         referred  to  in  Item 11,  the  Executive Compensation section of this
         Form 10-K. (The form of the plan was filed March 29, 1999.)

10.23    Asset Purchase Agreement dated June 26, 1995, among Foster Ball, L.L.C.
         (since renamed Ball-Foster Glass Container  Co.,  L.L.C.),  Ball  Glass
         Container Corporation and Ball  Corporation (filed by incorporation  by
         reference  to the Current Report on  Form 8-K dated September 15, 1995)
         filed September 29, 1995.

10.24    Foster Ball, L.L.C. (since  renamed Ball-Foster  Glass  Container  Co.,
         L.L.C.) Amended and Restated Limited Liability  Company Agreement dated
         June 26, 1995, among Saint-Gobain Holdings I Corp., BG Holdings I, Inc.
         and BG Holdings II, Inc. (filed by  incorporation by  reference  to the
         Current   Report   on   Form 8-K  dated   September  15,  1995)   filed
         September 29, 1995.

10.25    Asset Purchase  Agreement dated August 10, 1998, among Ball Corporation
         and its Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp. and Reynolds Metals Company
         (filed by incorporation by  reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K
         dated August 10, 1998) filed August 25, 1998.

10.26    Part-Time Employment,  Retirement  and  Consulting  Services  Agreement
         between Duane E. Emerson and Ball  Corporation dated   January 14, 1997
         (filed by incorporation by reference to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K
         for the year ended December 31, 1997) filed March 31, 1998.

10.27    Agreement  and General  Release  between  David  B.  Sheldon  and  Ball
         Corporation dated February 7, 1997 (filed by incorporation by reference
         to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997)
         filed March 31, 1998.

10.28    Consulting  Agreement  between The Cygnus Enterprise  Development Corp.
         (for which  Donovan B. Hicks is managing  partner) and Ball Corporation
         dated  January 1, 1997  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference to the
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997)  filed
         March 31, 1998.



Exhibit
Number   Description of Exhibit
- -------  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

10.29    Form of Severance Agreement (Change of Control Agreement)  which exists
         between the Company and its executive officers (filed by  incorporation
         by  reference  to  the  Annual Report on Form 10-K  for  the year ended
         December 31, 1988) filed March 25, 1989.

10.30    Consulting  Agreement  between  George A. Matsik  and  Ball Corporation
         dated October 18, 1999.  (Filed herewith.)

11.1     Statement re: Computation of Earnings Per Share (filed by incorporation
         by  reference  to  the  notes to the consolidated financial statements,
         "Earnings  Per  Share," in  the 1999  Annual  Report  to Shareholders).
         (Filed herewith.)

12.1     Statement re:  Computation  of  Ratio  of Earnings  to  Fixed  Charges.
         (Filed herewith.)

13.1     Ball Corporation  1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (The Annual Report
         to  Shareholders,  except  for those  portions  thereof incorporated by
         reference, is furnished for the  information  of the Commission and  is
         not to be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K.) (Filed herewith.)

18.1     Letter re: Change in Accounting Principles. (Filed by incorporation  by
         reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period
         ended July 2, 1995) filed August 15, 1995.

21.1     List of Subsidiaries of Ball Corporation. (Filed herewith.)

23.1     Consent of Independent Accountants. (Filed herewith.)

24.1     Limited Power of Attorney. (Filed herewith.)

27.1     Financial Data Schedule for the year ended December  31,  1999.  (Filed
         herewith.)

99.1     Specimen  Certificate  of   Common  Stock  (filed  by  incorporation by
         reference  to  the  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the year ended
         December  31,  1979) filed March 24, 1980.

99.2     Cautionary  statement for purposes of the "safe  harbor"  provisions of
         the Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act of 1995,  as  amended.
         (Filed herewith.)

