
10-K405
FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D. C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K

           ( X ) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

          ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
  For the transition period from ________________ to ________________

                        Commission File Number 1-7349

                                BALL CORPORATION


      State of Indiana                                        35-0160610

                      345 South High Street, P.O. Box 2407
                           Muncie, Indiana 47307-0407

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (317) 747-6100
       ------------------------------------------------------------------

Securities  registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                Name of each exchange
    Title of each class                          on which registered
----------------------------                ----------------------------
 Common Stock, without par value             New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                             Midwest Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                             Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
   YES [X]      NO [ ]
      

Indicate  by  check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K  is  not  contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated  by  reference  in  Part III  of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.  [X]

The  aggregate  market  value of  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
registrant  was $981.1  million based upon the closing  market price on March 1,
1995  (excluding  Series B ESOP  Convertible  Preferred Stock of the registrant,
which  series is not  publicly  traded  and which has an  aggregate  liquidation
preference of $67.2 million).

Number of shares outstanding as of the latest practicable date.

            Class                             Outstanding at March 1, 1995
-------------------------------               ----------------------------
Common Stock, without par value                         30,131,676

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.  Annual Report to  Shareholders  for the year ended December 31, 1994, to the
    extent  indicated  in  Parts  I,  II,  and  IV.  Except  as  to  information
    specifically incorporated,  the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders is not to
    be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K Annual Report.

2.  Proxy  statement  filed  with  the  Commission  dated March 20, 1995, to the
    extent indicated in Part III.





                                     PART I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Ball Corporation is an Indiana corporation organized in 1880 and incorporated in
1922.  Its  principal  executive  offices are located at 345 South High  Street,
Muncie,  Indiana  47305-2326.  The terms "Ball" and the "company" as used herein
refer to Ball Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Ball  Corporation is a manufacturer  of packaging  products for use primarily in
the packaging of food and beverage products. The company also provides aerospace
and communications  products and professional services to the federal sector and
commercial customers.

     The following  sections of the 1994 Annual Report to  Shareholders  contain
financial and other  information  concerning  company business  developments and
operations, and are incorporated herein by reference: the notes to the financial
statements  "Business Segment  Information,"  "Restructuring and Other Charges,"
"Disposition,"  "Spin-Off,"  "Acquisitions"  and  "Management's  Discussion  and
Analysis of Operations".

                          Recent Business Developments

Restructuring and Other Charges
-------------------------------

In the company's  major packaging  markets,  excess  manufacturing  capacity and
severe pricing pressures have presented  significant  competitive  challenges in
recent years.  Moreover,  reductions in federal defense  expenditures  and other
attempts to curb the federal budget deficit have resulted in excess  capacity in
the aerospace and defense  industry,  a declining number of new contract bidding
opportunities and curtailments and delays in existing programs.

In late 1993 the company  developed plans to restructure its businesses in order
to  adapt  the   company's   manufacturing   capabilities   and   administrative
organizations  to meet  foreseeable  requirements of the packaging and aerospace
markets.  These  plans  involved  plant  closures to  consolidate  manufacturing
activities into fewer, more efficient  facilities,  principally in the glass and
metal food container businesses, and administrative consolidations in the glass,
metal packaging and aerospace and communications  businesses. In addition to the
restructuring  plans,  decisions  were  made  during  1993  to  discontinue  two
aerospace and communications segment product lines.

The financial  impact of these plans was recognized  through  restructuring  and
other charges recorded in the third and fourth quarters of 1993 in the aggregate
amount of $108.7 million  ($66.3 million after tax or $2.31 per share).  Further
information  regarding  the  company's  restructuring  plans is  included in the
financial  statement note  "Restructuring  and Other Charges" and  "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Operations,"  which  are  incorporated  herein by
reference.

Disposition
-----------

In March 1995 the company  sold the Efratom  division to Datum Inc.  (Datum) for
approximately  $29  million  which was paid in a  combination  of cash and Datum
common stock. Efratom produces time and frequency devices used in navigation and
communication.  Total  assets of the Efratom  division at December  31, 1994 and
1993,  were  approximately  $18.2  million  and  $16.0  million,   respectively.
Operating  income for the Efratom  division was $3.1  million,  $2.7 million and
$2.5 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

Spin-Off
--------

On April 2, 1993, the company  completed  the  spin-off  of   seven  diversified
businesses  by  means  of  a  distribution  of 100 percent of  the  common stock
of  Alltrista  Corporation  (Alltrista),  a  then  wholly  owned subsidiary,  to
holders  of company  common  stock.  The  distributed  net  assets of  Alltrista
included the following  businesses:  the consumer  products  division;  the zinc
products  division;  the metal decorating and service  division;  the industrial
systems  division;  and the plastic products  businesses,  consisting of Unimark
plastics, industrial plastics and plastic packaging. Following the distribution,
Alltrista  operated as an independent,  publicly owned  corporation.  Additional
information  regarding this transaction can be found in the financial  statement
note "Spin-Off," which is incorporated herein by reference.

Heekin Can, Inc.
----------------

On  March  19,  1993,  the  company  acquired  Heekin  Can,  Inc.  (Heekin),   a
manufacturer  of metal  containers  primarily for the food, pet food and aerosol
markets,  with  1992  sales of $355  million.  The  acquisition,  which has been
accounted for as a purchase  business  combination,  was effected by issuance of
approximately  2.5 million  shares of Ball  Corporation  common  stock valued at
approximately  $88.3 million, in exchange for 100 percent of Heekin's issued and
outstanding  common stock.  Further  information  regarding this  transaction is
included  in the  financial  statement  note  "Acquisitions"  and  "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Operations,"  which  are  incorporated  herein by
reference.

          Other Information Pertaining to the Business of the Company

The company's continuing businesses are comprised of two segments:  packaging,
and aerospace and communications.

Packaging Segment
-----------------

The company's principal business segment develops,  manufactures and sells rigid
packaging products, containers and materials primarily for use in packaging food
and beverage products. Most of the company's packaging segment products are sold
in highly competitive markets,  primarily based on price,  service,  quality and
performance.  The majority of the company's packaging sales are made directly to
major  companies  having leading market  positions in packaged food and beverage
businesses.  While a  substantial  portion of the  company's  sales of packaging
products is made to  relatively  few  customers,  the company  believes that its
competitors exhibit similar customer concentrations.

The packaging business is capital intensive,  requiring significant  investments
in machinery and equipment, and profitability is sensitive to production volumes
and the cost of labor and significant raw materials. Generally, profitability is
enhanced  where greater unit volumes can be produced from a given  investment in
productive  equipment and where material and labor costs per unit of product can
be reduced.

Raw materials used by the company's packaging  businesses consist principally of
metals (aluminum and steel),  sand and soda ash and are generally available from
several sources.  Currently, the company is not experiencing any shortage of raw
materials.  The company's  manufacturing  facilities are  dependent,  in varying
degrees, upon the availability of process energy, such as propane,  natural gas,
fuel oil and  electricity.  While  certain of these  energy  sources  may become
increasingly  in short  supply,  or subject to  government  allocation or excise
taxes,  the company cannot predict the effects,  if any, of such  occurrences on
its future operations.

Research and development  efforts in these businesses  generally seek to improve
manufacturing efficiencies and lower unit costs, principally raw material costs,
by reducing the material  content of containers  while  improving or maintaining
other physical  properties such as material strength.  In addition,  the company
intends  to  produce  and  market  new sizes and  types of cans and  market  new
products like the SlimCan and the patented Touch Top(TM) end.

The operations and products within this segment are discussed below:

  Metal Packaging

Metal  packaging  is  manufactured  by the  company's  domestic  metal  beverage
container  operation as well as its wholly owned  subsidiaries,  Ball  Packaging
Products  Canada,  Inc. and Heekin Can, Inc., and is comprised  primarily of two
product  lines:  two-piece  beverage  containers  and two and  three-piece  food
containers.  The market  share of metal cans has remained  relatively  unchanged
over the past 10 years. Dominance in both the food and beverage markets and high
recycling rates contribute to the metal  container's  significant  market share.
The company's  international  metal container division has established  business
relationships  with can manufacturers in Europe,  the Middle East, Latin America
and the Pacific Rim. In addition,  the company began licensing  programs in 1994
to provide  manufacturing  technology and assistance to the largest can maker in
Australia  and New Zealand and to a joint  venture  project,  in which we have a
minority  equity   position,   to  build  the  first   two-piece   beverage  can
manufacturing  plant in the  Philippines.  The  company  and its  joint  venture
partners are the largest  producers of beverage cans in the People's Republic of
China.

  Metal beverage containers

Metal beverage  containers and ends represent the company's largest product line
accounting  for  approximately  41  percent  of  1994  consolidated  net  sales.
Decorated  two-piece  aluminum  beverage  cans are  produced  by seven  domestic
manufacturing  facilities;  ends are produced by two of these facilities.  Three
manufacturing facilities operated by Ball Canada produce aluminum beverage cans;
ends are produced at one of these  facilities as well as at one other  facility.
The company  believes it is the fourth largest  commercial  supplier of aluminum
beverage cans and ends to the combined U.S. and Canadian  market in 1994 with an
approximate  17 percent  market share,  based upon estimated 1994 total industry
shipments.  The company  estimates  that its three larger  competitors  together
represent  approximately  67 percent of estimated 1994 total industry  shipments
for the U.S. and Canada.  One  competitor  increased its market share in 1994 by
purchasing the beverage can manufacturing operations of a self-manufacturer.

The U.S. and Canadian metal beverage  container  industry has experienced steady
demand growth at a compounded  annual rate of approximately 3.5 percent over the
last  decade,  with much of that  growth in the soft drink  market  segment.  In
Canada, metal beverage containers have captured  significantly lower percentages
of the packaged  beverage market than in the U.S.,  particularly in the packaged
beer market,  in which the market share of metal containers has been hindered by
trade barriers  within Canada.  As a result of General  Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT)  rulings,  there has been pressure to remove these trade  barriers.
However, in May 1992, the Ontario government enacted an "environmental" tax levy
of 10 cents (Canadian) per can of beer sold in Ontario.  This tax  discriminates
against  cans in favor of  refillable  glass  bottles.  Shipments of cans to the
Ontario beer industry declined sharply after this tax was enacted.

Beverage  container  industry  production  capacity  in the U.S.  and Canada has
exceeded  demand in the last  several  years,  which has  created a  competitive
pricing  environment.  In 1994,  aluminum  suppliers  announced  a change in the
pricing formula for aluminum can sheet to a price based on ingot plus conversion
costs in contrast to the current practice of annually  negotiated  prices.  As a
result, the cost of aluminum can sheet increased.  In 1995 this increase will be
reflected in higher beverage can selling prices.

Metal  beverage  containers  are  sold  primarily  to  brewers  and  fillers  of
carbonated soft drinks,  beer and other  beverages,  under  long-term  supply or
annual  contracts.  Sales  to the  company's  largest  customer,  Anheuser-Busch
Companies,  Inc.,  accounted for  approximately 11 percent of consolidated  1994
sales.  Sales to all bottlers of  Pepsi-Cola  and  Coca-Cola  branded  beverages
comprised  approximately 21 percent of consolidated 1994 sales.  Sales volume of
metal beverage cans and ends tends to be highest during the period between April
and September.

  Metal food containers

Two-piece and three-piece  steel food containers are manufactured by Ball Canada
and Heekin,  and sold primarily to food  processors in Canada and the Midwestern
United States.  In 1994 metal food container  sales comprised  approximately  19
percent of consolidated  sales.  Sales to one customer  represented more than 10
percent of this  operation's  1994 sales.  Sales volume of metal food containers
tends to be highest from June through October.

The  company  has one  principal  competitor  located  in  Canada  and  numerous
competitors  located in the U.S. food container market.  With the acquisition of
Heekin,  the  company  estimates  that  it was the  fourth  largest  metal  food
container  manufacturer  with an  approximate  14  percent  share  of the  North
American  market for metal food  containers,  based on estimated  1994  industry
shipments.  A  competitor's  recent  acquisition  of a  major  food  processor's
self-manufacturing  operations  resulted in that  competitor  becoming the third
largest food can  manufacturer  in the North American market with an approximate
20 percent market share.  This market has shown an accelerated  trend toward the
consolidation  of  manufacturing  capacity  during 1993 and 1994,  including the
company's acquisition of Heekin in 1993.

In the food container  industry,  capacity  significantly  exceeds market demand
resulting  in a  highly  price  competitive  market.  During  1993  the  company
completed consolidation of certain facilities in Canada. In conjunction with the
restructuring plans described above, the company closed its Augusta,  Wisconsin,
plant and sold its Alsip, Illinois, plant during 1994.

  Other metal packaging

The  company  also  manufactures  containers  for  aerosol  products  and  other
specialty  goods,  and sells flat sheet  products,  primarily to customers which
manufacture cans for their own use.

  Glass Packaging

Ball Glass  Container  Corporation  (Ball  Glass),  a wholly  owned  subsidiary,
manufactures  a  diversified  line of glass  containers  for sale  primarily  to
processors,  packers and distributors of food,  juice, wine and liquor products.
Ball Glass currently  operates twelve glass container  manufacturing  facilities
and a glass  mold  manufacturing  facility.  One glass  plant is owned by Madera
Glass  Company,  a 51 percent  owned  subsidiary  of Ball Glass.  Sales of glass
containers accounted for approximately 29 percent of consolidated sales in 1994.

The company  estimates that Ball Glass is the third largest domestic producer of
commercial  glass  containers  with an estimated 15 percent market share,  based
upon 1994 sales dollars.  Its two larger  competitors  together are estimated to
comprise in excess of 60 percent of the domestic market.  Ball Glass has focused
upon the food and juice,  still  wines and  champagnes,  and  distilled  spirits
market segments,  in which service,  quality and performance are  discriminating
competitive factors.  Ball Glass' share positions in these markets are estimated
to be 24.2 percent, 23.9 percent and 11.5 percent, respectively.

One of the  primary  market  segments  served  by Ball  Glass,  food and  juice,
represents the largest segment of U.S. glass container shipments  accounting for
39.2 percent of the market.  The total market for all types of glass  containers
decreased  approximately  3.5 percent in 1994, and has declined by an average of
0.4 percent per annum since 1983 as other  packaging  materials,  such as metal,
plastic and flexible  packaging,  have  captured a share of products  previously
packaged in glass,  e.g., beer,  carbonated soft drinks and specialty items, and
due to a decline in alcoholic beverage  consumption.  Declining long-term demand
for glass  packaging has resulted in  manufacturers  reducing  their  production
capacity in order to maintain a balance  between  market demand and supply.  The
glass container industry continues to face a challenging  environment as plastic
container demand rises.

The number of glass container  manufacturers  has consolidated from 21 companies
operating  109 plants in 1983 to 11 companies  with 67 plants in 1995.  In 1992,
three  plants  were  closed in the  industry:  two by the  company  and one by a
competitor.  Although several furnaces were idled in 1993, no plants were closed
in the industry. In 1994, the company closed its Asheville,  North Carolina, and
Okmulgee,  Oklahoma, glass container manufacturing plants. One competitor closed
a plant in 1994 and announced the pending closing of two plants.

The  majority of Ball Glass sales are made  directly to major  companies  having
leading  market  positions  in  packaged  food and  juice,  and still  wines and
champagnes.  Sales to no one customer  represented  more than 10 percent of Ball
Glass' 1994 sales.

  Plastic Packaging

Demand for containers made of polyethylene  terephthalate (PET) has increased in
the beverage  packaging market and is expected to increase in the food packaging
market with improved  technology and adequate supplies of PET resin. The company
announced plans in 1994 to enter the plastic container market which reached $5.5
billion in 1994, surpassing the size of the glass container market for the first
time.

Aerospace and Communications Segment
------------------------------------

The aerospace and communications segment provides systems, products and services
to the aerospace and defense, and commercial  telecommunications  markets. Sales
in the aerospace and  communications  segment  accounted  for  approximately  10
percent of consolidated sales in 1994. Approximately 11 percent of the segment's
sales in 1994  were made to the  commercial  telecommunications  industry  and 7
percent of sales were made to international customers.

The majority of the company's  aerospace business involves work under relatively
short-term  contracts (generally one to five years) for the National Aeronautics
and Space  Administration  (NASA),  the U.S.  Department  of  Defense  (DoD) and
foreign  governments.  Contracts  funded by the various  agencies of the federal
government represented approximately 78 percent of this segment's sales in 1994.
Overall,  competition within the aerospace  businesses is expected to intensify.
Declining defense spending generally has resulted in greater competition for DoD
contracts as the military market decreases,  as well as greater  competition for
NASA and other civilian aerospace  contracts  historically  serviced by Ball, as
major defense contractors seek to enter those markets.

The segment also supplies commercial  telecommunications  equipment to customers
in satellite and ground communications markets. Products are supplied on a fixed
price  basis  to  original   equipment   manufacturers   both  domestically  and
internationally.  These markets are generally characterized as having relatively
high growth rates (10 percent annually) and the products supplied typically have
life cycles of 3 to 5 years.

The operations which comprise the aerospace and communications segment presently
are  organized  as  two  divisions:  the  aerospace  systems  division  and  the
telecommunications products division. Included in the aerospace systems division
are  space  systems,   systems  engineering  services,  and  electro-optics  and
cryogenics products.  The  telecommunications  products division is comprised of
commercial and video products and advanced antenna  systems.  In late 1994 a new
subsidiary, Earthwatch, Inc., was formed to serve the market for satellite-based
remote  sensing  of the earth.  A  description  of the  principal  products  and
services of the aerospace and communications segment follows:

  Space systems and systems engineering services

These businesses  provide complete space systems  including  satellites,  ground
systems and launch  vehicle  integration  to NASA, the DoD and to commercial and
international  customers.  The products and services include mission  definition
and  design;  satellite  design,  manufacture  and  testing;  payload and launch
vehicle  definition  and  integration;  and  satellite  ground  station  control
hardware and software.

Ball also  provides a range of  professional  technical  services to  government
customers including systems engineering  support;  simulation studies,  analysis
and prototype hardware; and hardware and software research and development tasks
for test and evaluation of government  programs.  Revenues derived from services
represented less than two percent of consolidated 1994 sales.

  Electro-optics and cryogenics products

Primary products of the electro-optics  business include:  spacecraft  guidance,
control instruments and sensors;  defense subsystems for surveillance,  warning,
target  identification  and  attitude  control in military  and  civilian  space
applications; and scientific instruments used in various space and earth science
applications.

Primary  products  in the  cryogenics  business  include:  open cycle  cryogenic
storage and cooling devices;  mechanical  refrigerators  that provide  cryogenic
cooling;  and thermal electric coolers and radiative  coolers,  all of which are
used for the cooling of detectors and associated equipment for space science and
earth  remote  sensing  applications.  Open  cycle  cryogenic  systems  are also
provided to NASA for life support on space shuttles.

  Telecommunication products

Ball provides advanced radio frequency transmission and reception antennae for a
variety  of  aerospace  and  defense  platforms,  including  aircraft,  missile,
spacecraft,  ground  mobile  equipment  and  ships.  Antenna  products  are also
provided for  commercial  aircraft for  satellite  communication  and  collision
avoidance applications.

  Backlog

Backlog of the  aerospace  and  communications  segment was  approximately  $322
million at December  31,  1994,  and $305  million at  December  31,  1993,  and
consists  of the  aggregate  contract  value of firm  orders  excluding  amounts
previously  recognized as revenue. The 1994 backlog includes  approximately $223
million which is expected to be billed  during 1995 with the remainder  expected
to be billed  thereafter.  Unfunded amounts included in backlog for certain firm
government  orders which are subject to annual funding were  approximately  $181
million at  December  31,  1994.  Year-to-year  comparisons  of backlog  are not
necessarily indicative of future operations.

The company's  aerospace and communications  segment has contracts with the U.S.
Government which have standard  termination  provisions.  The Government retains
the right to terminate  contracts at its convenience.  However, if contracts are
terminated,  the company is entitled to be reimbursed  for  allowable  costs and
profits to the date of termination relating to authorized work performed to such
date. U.S. Government contracts are also subject to reduction or modification in
the event of changes in Government requirements or budgetary constraints.

                                    Patents

In the opinion of the  company,  none of its active  patents is essential to the
successful operation of its business as a whole.

                            Research and Development

The note,  "Research and Development," of the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders
contains  information  on  company  research  and  development  activity  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                  Environment

Compliance  with  federal,  state and local laws  relating to  protection of the
environment  has not had a material,  adverse effect upon capital  expenditures,
earnings or competitive  position of the company.  As more fully described under
Item 3. Legal Proceedings,  the U. S. Environmental  Protection Agency (EPA) and
various  state   environmental   agencies  have  designated  the  company  as  a
potentially  responsible  party,  along with numerous other  companies,  for the
cleanup of several hazardous waste sites.  However, the company's information at
this time does not indicate  that these  matters  will have a material,  adverse
effect upon financial condition, results of operations,  capital expenditures or
competitive position of the company.

Legislation  which would  prohibit,  tax or restrict  the sale or use of certain
types of  containers,  and  would  require  diversion  of solid  wastes  such as
packaging materials from disposal in landfills, has been or may be introduced in
U.S.  Congress and the  Canadian  Parliament,  in state and Canadian  provincial
legislatures and other  legislative  bodies.  For instance,  trade barriers were
placed on metal  containers  in Canada.  In  addition,  the  Ontario  government
enacted an "environmental"  tax levy of 10 cents (Canadian) per can of beer sold
in Ontario  which  caused a decline in  shipments  of cans to the  Ontario  beer
industry.  While container  legislation has been adopted in a few jurisdictions,
similar  legislation  has been  defeated in public  referenda  in several  other
states, in local elections and in many state and local legislative sessions. The
company  anticipates that continuing  efforts will be made to consider and adopt
such legislation in many  jurisdictions  in the future.  If such legislation was
widely adopted,  it could have a material  adverse effect on the business of the
company, as well as on the container  manufacturing industry generally,  in view
of the  company's  substantial  North  American  sales and  investment  in metal
beverage  container  manufacture as well as its  investments in glass  container
packaging.

Glass and aluminum  containers are recyclable,  and significant  amounts of used
containers are being recycled and diverted from the solid waste stream.  In 1994
approximately 65 percent of aluminum  beverage  containers sold in the U.S. were
recycled.

                                   Employees

As of March 1995 Ball employed 12,873 people.








ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

The company's  properties  are well  maintained,  considered  adequate and being
utilized for their intended purposes.

The Corporate  headquarters,  glass packaging group offices and certain research
and engineering facilities are located in Muncie, Indiana. The group offices for
metal packaging operations are based in Westminster,  Colorado.  Also located at
Westminster is the Edmund F. Ball Technical  Center,  which serves as a research
and development  facility  primarily for the metal packaging  operations.  Group
offices for the aerospace and  communications  group are located in  Broomfield,
Colorado.  The group  offices and  research and  development  center for the new
plastic container division are located in Atlanta, Georgia.

Information  regarding the approximate size of the manufacturing  facilities for
significant packaging operations,  which are owned by the company,  except where
indicated otherwise, is provided below.

The  Colorado-based  operations  of the  aerospace  and  communications  segment
operate  from a variety  of  company  owned and leased  facilities  in  Boulder,
Broomfield and Westminster,  Colorado,  which together  aggregate  approximately
1,074,000  square  feet  of  office,   laboratory,   research  and  development,
engineering   and  test,   and   manufacturing   space.   Other   aerospace  and
communications operations are based in San Diego, California.


                                                 Approximate
                                                 Floor Space in
Plant Location                                   Square Feet
                                                 --------------
Metal packaging manufacturing facilities:
----------------------------------------

Red Deer, Alberta (leased)                            52,000
Blytheville, Arkansas (leased)                         8,000
Springdale, Arkansas                                 290,000
Richmond, British Columbia                           204,000
Fairfield, California                                148,000
Golden, Colorado                                     330,000
Tampa, Florida                                       139,000
Columbus, Indiana                                    222,000
Saratoga Springs, New York                           283,000
Cincinnati, Ohio                                     478,000
Columbus, Ohio                                        50,000
Findlay, Ohio                                        450,000
Burlington, Ontario                                  309,000
Hamilton, Ontario                                    347,000
Whitby, Ontario                                      195,000
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (leased)                     81,000
Baie d'Urfe, Quebec                                  117,000
Chestnut Hill, Tennessee                              70,000
Conroe, Texas                                        284,000
Williamsburg, Virginia                               260,000
Weirton, West Virginia (leased)                      117,000
DeForest, Wisconsin                                   45,000


                                                 Approximate
                                                 Floor Space in
Plant Location                                   Square Feet
                                                 --------------
Glass packaging manufacturing facilities:
----------------------------------------

El Monte, California                                 456,000
Madera, California
  (Madera Glass Company)                             771,000
Dolton, Illinois                                     490,000
Lincoln, Illinois                                    327,000
Plainfield, Illinois                                 419,000
Dunkirk, Indiana (leased)                            715,000
Ruston, Louisiana                                    430,000
Carteret, New Jersey                                 338,000
Henderson, North Carolina                            757,000
Port Allegany, Pennsylvania                          451,000
Laurens, South Carolina                              623,000
Seattle, Washington                                  640,000

Additional  warehousing  facilities are leased. The leased mould making facility
operated  by  Ball  Glass  is  located  in  Washington,  Pennsylvania,  and  has
approximately 56,000 square feet of manufacturing and office space.



ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

As previously reported, the United States Environmental  Protection Agency (EPA)
considers the company to be a Potentially  Responsible  Party (PRP) with respect
to the Lowry Landfill  ("site")  located east of Denver,  Colorado.  On June 12,
1992,  the  company  was served  with a lawsuit  filed by the City and County of
Denver and Waste Management of Colorado,  Inc.,  seeking  contribution  from the
company and  approximately  38 other  companies.  The  company  filed its answer
denying  the  allegations  of the  Complaint.  On July 8, 1992,  the company was
served with a third party  complaint filed by S. W. Shattuck  Chemical  Company,
Inc.,  seeking  contribution  from the company and other companies for the costs
associated  with  cleaning  up  the  Lowry  Landfill.  The  company  denied  the
allegations of the complaint.

On July 31, 1992,  the company  entered into a  settlement  and  indemnification
agreement  with  the  City and  County  of  Denver  ("Denver"),  Chemical  Waste
Management,  Inc.,  and Waste  Management of Colorado,  Inc.,  pursuant to which
Chemical  Waste  Management,  Inc.,  and  Waste  Management  of  Colorado,  Inc.
(collectively  "Waste"),  have dismissed  their lawsuit  against the company and
will defend,  indemnify,  and hold harmless the company from claims and lawsuits
brought by governmental  agencies and other parties  relating to actions seeking
contributions  or  remedial  costs from the company for the cleanup of the site.
Several other  companies which are defendants in the  above-referenced  lawsuits
have already  entered into the  settlement  and  indemnification  agreement with
Denver and Waste.  Waste  Management,  Inc., has  guaranteed the  obligations of
Chemical Waste  Management,  Inc., and Waste Management of Colorado,  Inc. Waste
and Denver may seek  additional  payments from the company if the response costs
related to the site exceed $319 million.  The company might also be  responsible
for payments  (calculated in 1992 dollars) for any additional wastes disposed of
by the company at the site,  which are  identified  after the  execution  of the
settlement  agreement.  The company's information at this time does not indicate
that this  matter  will  have a  material,  adverse  effect  upon its  financial
condition.

As previously  reported,  the EPA issued in August 1988, an administrative order
to 12  companies,  including  the  company,  pursuant  to  Section  106A  of the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as
amended  (CERCLA),  ordering them to remove certain  abandoned drums and surface
waste at the AERR CO site located in Jefferson County,  Colorado. AERR CO, which
used the site to  recycle  wastes,  filed a  petition  with  the  United  States
Bankruptcy  Court in Denver,  Colorado,  seeking  protection from its creditors.
Several of the companies, including the company, are subject to the EPA's order,
and have cleaned up the site. The companies  negotiated with the EPA with regard
to its demand for the payment of  oversight  costs.  The  companies  and the EPA
entered into a settlement  agreement on or about  January 24, 1994,  pursuant to
which this matter was settled by payment of $488,867.41  by the  companies.  The
company's portion of this payment was $28,594.82.  The company's  information at
this time does not  indicate  that this  matter  will have a  material,  adverse
effect upon its financial condition.

As previously  reported,  in September 1989 the company received a federal grand
jury  subpoena to produce  documents  relating  to  financial  transactions  and
results of operations of the Ball Aerospace  Systems Group  Colorado  operations
since  1985.  A  supplemental  subpoena  was served in January  1990  requesting
additional  documents.  The company has complied fully with the  subpoenas.  The
Assistant  United States Attorney has refused to disclose the specific nature of
the investigation, but has indicated informally that the company is not a target
of the investigation.  The company does not believe that this matter will have a
material, adverse effect upon its financial condition.

As previously reported,  in April 1990 the company received from the EPA, Region
V, Chicago,  Illinois, a general notice letter and information request regarding
the NL Industries/Taracorp Superfund site located at Granite City, Illinois. The
EPA alleges that the company, through its Zinc Products Division (formerly known
as Ball Metal and Chemical Division) located in Greeneville, Tennessee, may be a
PRP with respect to the NL Industries/Taracorp  site. The EPA requested that the
company  provide  the EPA  with  any and all  information  with  respect  to any
business  conducted  with Taracorp or NL Industries  between 1977 and 1983.  The
company  has  responded  to the EPA's  request for  information.  The company is
currently  part of a group of  companies  which are  organized to negotiate a de
minimis settlement with the EPA. The company's information at this time does not
indicate  that  this  matter  will  have a  material,  adverse  effect  upon its
financial condition.

As  previously  reported,  in April 1987 the EPA  notified  the  company and its
wholly owned  subsidiary,  Heekin Can, Inc., that they may be PRPs in connection
with the alleged disposal of waste at the American Chemical Services, Inc. (ACS)
site located in Griffith,  Indiana. In the fall of 1987, the company, as part of
a group of companies,  filed a lawsuit in the United States  District  Court for
the Northern District of Indiana against the operators of the facility, ACS, and
the Town of Griffith,  Indiana,  seeking a declaration of landowner's  liability
under CERCLA and seeking contribution from the landowners for the costs incurred
by the companies of performing a remedial  investigation and feasibility  study.
In September of 1990, ACS filed a counterclaim against the companies,  including
the  company.   ACS  sought  a  declaratory  judgment  that  the  companies  are
responsible for a proportionate share of the liability for costs associated with
the cleanup.  The company has denied the allegations of the  counterclaim.  This
lawsuit  has now been  settled.  The company  and its wholly  owned  subsidiary,
Heekin Can, Inc.,  have entered into an  Administrative  Order On Consent and on
January 20, 1995, paid the EPA $68,912.63 to resolve this matter. Based upon the
information  available to the company at this time, the company does not believe
that this  matter  will  have a  material,  adverse  effect  upon its  financial
condition.

As  previously  reported,  on or about August 28, 1990,  the company  received a
notice from the Department of  Environmental  Resources,  State of  Pennsylvania
(DER),  that the company may have been responsible for disposing of waste at the
Industrial   Solvents  and  Chemical   Company  site  located  in  York  County,
Pennsylvania.  The company is cooperating  with several  hundred other companies
and the DER to resolve this matter.  In December 1993 the company entered into a
De Minimis Settlement  Agreement with certain other companies who have agreed to
indemnify the company with respect to claims arising out of the alleged disposal
of hazardous waste at the site in  consideration of the company paying an amount
not to exceed $11,031.70 to the indemnifying companies. The company has paid the
indemnifying companies in accordance with their agreement.

As previously  reported,  the company has been notified by Chrysler  Corporation
(Chrysler)  that Chrysler,  Ford Motor Company,  and General Motors  Corporation
have been named in a lawsuit filed in the U.S.  District Court in Reno,  Nevada,
by Jerome  Lemelson,  alleging  infringement  of three of his vision  inspection
system patents used by defendants.  One or more of the vision inspection systems
used by the defendants may have been supplied by the company's former Industrial
Systems  Division  or its  predecessors.  The suit seeks  injunctive  relief and
unspecified damages.  Chrysler has notified the Industrial Systems Division that
the Division may have indemnification  responsibilities to Chrysler. The company
has  responded to Chrysler that it appears at this time that the systems sold to
Chrysler by the company  either  were not covered by the  identified  patents or
were sold to Chrysler before the patents were issued. Based on that information,
it is not  expected  that any  obligation  to  Chrysler  because of the  patents
referred to will have a material,  adverse effect on the financial  condition of
the company.

As previously reported, in July 1992 DeSoto, Inc., and other plaintiffs sued the
company  and  other  defendants  claiming   contribution  from  the  defendants,
including the company,  through its former Plastics Division, for response costs
incurred in connection with the Industrial  Waste Control  Landfill Site located
in Fort Smith,  Arkansas.  The plaintiffs allege that the defendants are jointly
and severally liable for response costs in excess of $9 million. The company had
denied the allegations contained in the complaint, on the basis, primarily, that
the Division did not dispose of hazardous  waste at the site.  In March 1993 the
plaintiffs  agreed to dismiss their complaint  against the company.  This matter
now appears to be concluded  with no material,  adverse  effect on the company's
financial condition.

As  previously  reported,  in  September  1992 the  company,  as a  fourth-party
defendant,  was served with a lawsuit  filed by Allied  Signal and certain other
fourth-party  plaintiffs  seeking  the  recovery of certain  response  costs and
contribution  under  CERCLA with  respect to the  alleged  disposal by its Metal
Decorating & Service  Division of hazardous  waste at the Cross Brothers Site in
Kankakee,  Illinois,  during the years 1961 to 1980. Also in September 1992, the
company was sued by another defendant, Krueger Ringier, Inc. In October 1992 the
Illinois Environmental  Protection Agency filed an action to join the company as
a  Defendant  seeking to recover the  State's  costs in removing  waste from the
Cross Brothers  Site.  The company has denied the  allegations of the complaints
and will defend these matters, but is unable at this time to predict the outcome
of the  litigation.  The company and certain other companies have entered into a
Consent  Decree with the EPA  pursuant to which the EPA  received  approximately
$2.9 million  and  provided  the  companies  with  contribution  protection  and
a covenant not to sue.  Ball's share of the settlement  amount was  $858,493.60.
The  company  has been  indemnified  for the  settlement  payment  by  Alltrista
Corporation  which  owns the  Metal  Decorating  & Service  Division.  The Court
approved  the Consent  Decree on April 28, 1994.  The company and certain  other
companies  are  negotiating  with the State of  Illinois  to settle the  State's
alleged  claim to recover  costs  expended in the cleanup of the Cross  Brothers
Site.  Based upon the  information  available to the company at this time,  this
matter is not  likely to have a  material,  adverse  effect  upon its  financial
condition.

As previously reported, on October 12, 1992, the company received notice that it
may be a PRP for the  cleanup of the  Aqua-Tech  Environmental  site  located in
Greer, South Carolina.  The company is investigating this matter. Based upon the
limited  information  that the  company has at this time,  the company  does not
believe  this  matter will have a material,  adverse  effect upon its  financial
condition.

As  previously  reported,  on April 24,  1992,  the company was  notified by the
Muncie  Race Track  Steering  Committee  that the  company,  through  its former
Consumer Products Division and former Zinc Products Division,  may be a PRP with
respect to waste  disposed  at the Muncie  Race Track Site  located in  Delaware
County,  Indiana.  The company is currently  attempting  to identify  additional
information regarding this matter. The Steering Committee has requested that the
company pay two percent of the cleanup costs which are estimated at this time to
be $10 million. The company has declined to participate in the PRP group because
the company's records do not indicate the company contributed hazardous waste to
the site.  The company also  declined to  participate  in funding an  allocation
study to be  conducted  by a  consulting  company.  Based  upon the  information
available  to the company at this time,  the company  does not believe that this
matter will have a material, adverse effect upon the company.

As previously reported,  the company was notified on June 19, 1989, that the EPA
has designated the company and numerous other companies as PRPs  responsible for
the cleanup of certain hazardous wastes that have been released at the Spectron,
Inc., site located in Elkton, Maryland. In December 1989 the company, along with
other companies whose alleged  hazardous  waste  contributions  to the Spectron,
Inc., site were considered to be de minimis, entered into a settlement agreement
with  the EPA.  Certain  other  PRPs  have  agreed  with  the EPA to  perform  a
groundwater  study of the site. The company's  information at this time does not
indicate  that  this  matter  will  have a  material,  adverse  effect  upon its
financial condition.

As previously  reported,  the company has received  information that it has been
named a PRP with respect to the Solvents  Recovery Site located in  Southington,
Connecticut. According to the information received by the company, it is alleged
that the company contributed  approximately  .08816% of the waste contributed to
the site on a volumetric basis. The company is attempting to identify additional
information  regarding this matter. The company's  information at this time does
not  indicate  that this matter will have a  material,  adverse  effect upon its
financial condition.

On or about June 14,  1990,  the El Monte plant of  Ball-InCon  Glass  Packaging
Corp.  (now  Ball  Glass  Container  Corporation  (Ball  Glass),  through a name
change),  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of  the  company,   received  a  general
notification  letter and information request from EPA, Region IX, notifying Ball
Glass that it may have  potential  liability as defined in Section 107(a) of the
CERCLA incurred with respect to the San Gabriel Valley areas 1-4 Superfund sites
located in Los Angeles County, California. The EPA requested certain information
from Ball Glass, and Ball Glass has responded. After a period of inactivity, the
federal  and  state   governments   are  proceeding  to  complete  the  remedial
investigation  study which will lead to a proposed cleanup.  On October 7, 1994,
the U.S. EPA issued "special  notice"  letters  requiring (i) the 17 recipients,
including  Ball Glass,  to form an official PRP group to deal with the EPA, (ii)
the group to undertake and pay for a remedial  investigation/feasibility  study,
and (iii) the recipients to pay EPA's administrative  costs. The group submitted
to the EPA its "good faith" response letter  outlining how the group proposes to
perform the remedial  investigation  study requested by the EPA. The company and
certain  other  companies  continue  to  negotiate  with the  EPA.  Based on the
information,  or lack  thereof,  available at the present  time,  the company is
unable to express an opinion as to the actual  exposure  of the company for this
matter.

Prior to the acquisition on April 19, 1991, of the lenders' position in the term
debt and 100 percent ownership of Ball Canada,  the company had owned indirectly
50 percent of Ball Canada through a joint venture  holding company owned equally
with Onex Corporation  (Onex).  The 1988 Joint Venture  Agreement had included a
provision under which Onex,  beginning in late 1993,  could "put" to the company
all of its  equity in the  holding  company at a price  based  upon the  holding
company's fair value.  Onex has since claimed that its "put" option  entitled it
to a minimum value founded on Onex's original  investment of approximately $22.0
million.  On December 9, 1993,  Onex served  notice on the company that Onex was
exercising  its alleged right under the Joint  Venture  Agreement to require the
company to purchase all of the holding  company  shares owned or  controlled  by
Onex,  directly  or  indirectly,  for an  amount  including  "approximately  $40
million"  in respect  of the Class A-2  Preference  Shares  owned by Onex in the
holding  company.  Such "$40 million" is expressed in Canadian dollars and would
represent approximately $30 million at the year-end exchange rate. The company's
position is that it has no obligation to purchase any shares from Onex or to pay
Onex any amount for such shares,  since,  among other things,  the Joint Venture
Agreement, which included the "put" option, is terminated.  Onex is now pursuing
its claim on arbitration before the International Chamber of Commerce. A hearing
has  been  set to  begin  on May 30,  1995.  The  company  believes  that it has
meritorious   defenses   against  Onex's  claims,   although,   because  of  the
uncertainties  inherent in the arbitration  process, it is unable to predict the
outcome of this arbitration.

On March 8, 1994, the company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Heekin Can, Inc.,
were served with a lawsuit by Harlan Yoder, an employee of Heekin Can, Inc., and
his spouse seeking  $6,500,000 jointly and severally as the result of an alleged
injury to Mr. Yoder on or about April 26, 1993.  Mr. Yoder  sustained a crushing
injury to his left hand while operating machinery at the Heekin Can, Inc., metal
container manufacturing plant located at Columbus,  Ohio. The company and Heekin
Can, Inc.,  deny the material  allegations of the complaint filed by the Yoders.
Based upon the  information  available to the company at this time,  the company
does not believe that this matter will have a material  adverse  effect upon its
financial condition.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There  were no  matters  submitted  to the  security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of 1994.






                                    PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
           MATTERS

Ball  Corporation  common  stock  (BLL) is traded on the New York,  Midwest  and
Pacific Stock Exchanges. There were 9,105 common shareholders of record on March
1, 1995.

Other information required by Item 5 appears under the caption, "Quarterly Stock
Prices  and   Dividends,"  in  the  section   titled,   "Items  of  Interest  to
Shareholders,"  of the 1994 Annual Report to  Shareholders  and is  incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The  information  required by Item 6 for the five years ended December 31, 1994,
appearing in the section titled, "Eight Year Review of Selected Financial Data,"
of the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
           RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

"Management's Discussion  and Analysis of Operations" of the 1994 Annual Report 
to Shareholders is incorporated  herein by reference.

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The  consolidated  financial  statements  and notes  thereto of the 1994  Annual
Report to  Shareholders,  together with the report thereon of Price  Waterhouse,
dated January 23, 1995, are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
           FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

There were no matters required to be reported under this item.






                                    PART III

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive officers of the company are as follows:

 1.   George A. Sissel, 58, Acting President and Chief Executive Officer,  since
      May 1994; Senior Vice President,  Corporate Affairs;  Corporate  Secretary
      and General Counsel, since January 1993; Senior Vice President,  Corporate
      Secretary  and  General  Counsel,  1987-1992;  Vice  President,  Corporate
      Secretary and General Counsel, 1981-1987.

 2.   William  A.  Lincoln,  53,  Executive  Vice  President,   Metal  Container
      Operations,  since March 1993;  Executive Vice President,  Metal Packaging
      Operations,  1992-1993;  Group Vice  President,  1991-1992;  President and
      Chief Executive Officer, Ball Packaging Products Canada, Inc., since 1988;
      Vice President and Group Executive, Research, Development and Engineering,
      Packaging  Products,  1988; Vice President,  Engineering and  Development,
      Metal Container Division, 1978-1988.

 3.   Duane E. Emerson, 57, Senior  Vice  President, Administration, since April
      1985; Vice President, Administration, 1980-1985.

 4.   R. David Hoover, 49,  Senior  Vice  President and Chief Financial Officer,
      since August 1992;  Vice  President and  Treasurer,  1988-1992; Assistant 
      Treasurer,   1987-1988;   Vice President,   Finance   and  Administration,
      Technical Products, 1985-1987; Vice President, Finance and Administration,
      Management Services Division, 1983-1985.

 5.   John  A.  Haas,  58,  Group  Vice President; President and Chief Executive
      Officer,  Ball  Glass  Container  Corporation, since June 1994; President,
      Metal  Food  Container  and Specialty Products Group, 1993-1994; President
      and Chief Executive Officer, Heekin Can, Inc. 1988-1994.

 6.   Donovan B. Hicks,  57,  Group Vice  President;  President,  Aerospace  and
      Communications Group, since January 1988; Group Vice President,  Technical
      Products,     1980-1988;     President,     Ball     Brothers     Research
      Corporation/Division, 1978-1980.

 7.   David B. Sheldon,  53, Group Vice  President;  President,  Metal  Beverage
      Container Group; Group Vice President, Packaging Products, 1992-1993; Vice
      President and Group  Executive,  Sales and Marketing,  Packaging  Products
      Group, 1988-1992; Vice President and Group Executive, Sales and Marketing,
      Metal Container Group, 1985-1988.

 8.   Richard  E.  Durbin, 53, Vice President, Information Services, since April
      1985;  Corporate  Director,  Information  Services,  1983-1985;  Corporate
      Director, Data Processing, 1981-1983.

 9.   Albert R. Schlesinger,  53,  Vice  President and Controller, since January
      1987; Assistant Controller, 1976-1986.

10.   Raymond J. Seabrook, 44, Vice  President and Treasurer, since August 1992;
      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Ball Packaging Products
      Canada, Inc., 1988-1992.

11.   Harold L. Sohn, 49, Vice President, Corporate Relations, since March 1993;
      Director, Industry Affairs, Packaging Products, 1988-1993.

12.   David A. Westerlund,  44, Vice President,  Human Resources, since December
      1994; Senior Director, Corporate Human Resources, July 1994-December 1994;
      Vice President, Human Resources and Administration, Ball Glass, 1988-1994;
      Vice President, Human Resources, Ball Glass, 1987-1988.

13.   Elizabeth  A.  Overmyer,  55,  Assistant  Corporate Secretary, since April
      1981; Administrator, Office of the Corporate Secretary, 1979-1981.

14.   Donald C. Lewis,  52,  Assistant Corporate Secretary and Associate General
      Counsel, since May 1990;  Associate  General  Counsel 1983-1990; Assistant
      General Counsel, 1980-1983.

Other  information  required by Item 10 appearing  under the caption,  "Director
Nominees and Continuing  Directors," on pages 3 through 5 of the company's proxy
statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A dated March 20, 1995, is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The  information  required by Item 11 appearing  under the  caption,  "Executive
Compensation,"  on pages 7 through 15 of the  company's  proxy  statement  filed
pursuant to  Regulation  14A dated March 20,  1995,  is  incorporated  herein by
reference.


ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The  information  required  by Item 12  appearing  under  the  caption,  "Voting
Securities and Principal  Shareholders," on pages 1 and 2 of the company's proxy
statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A dated March 20, 1995, is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information  required by Item 13 appearing under the caption,  "Relationship
with Independent Public Accountants and Certain Other  Relationships and Related
Transactions,"  on page 17 of the company's  proxy  statement  filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A dated March 20, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference.






                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a) (1) Financial Statements:

        The  following   documents   included  in  the  1994  Annual  Report  to
        Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8:

        Consolidated statement of income (loss) - Years ended December 31, 1994,
        1993 and 1992

        Consolidated balance sheet - December 31, 1994 and 1993

        Consolidated  statement  of  cash flows - Years ended December 31, 1994,
        1993 and 1992

        Consolidated  statement of changes in shareholders' equity - Years ended
        December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

        Notes to consolidated financial statements

        Report of independent accountants

    (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

        There were no financial statement schedules required under this item.

    (3) Exhibits:

        See the Index to Exhibits  which appears at the end of this document and
        which is incorporated by reference herein.

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K

        No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1994.





                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                           BALL CORPORATION
                           (Registrant)
                           By:  /s/ George A. Sissel 
                                --------------------------------------
                                George A. Sissel, Acting President and
                                   Chief Executive Officer
                                March 29, 1995

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed by the following  persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated below.

(1)   Principal Executive Officer:
                                                      Acting President and
      /s/  George A. Sissel                           Chief Executive Officer
      ---------------------------------------         March 29, 1995
      George A. Sissel                                 

(2)   Principal Financial Accounting Officer:
                                                     Senior Vice President and
      /s/  R. David Hoover                           Chief Financial Officer
      ---------------------------------------        March 29, 1995
      R. David Hoover                                  

(3)   Controller:

      /s/  Albert R. Schlesinger                     Vice President and 
      ---------------------------------------        Controller
      Albert R. Schlesinger                          March 29, 1995 

(4)   A Majority of the Board of Directors:

      /s/  Howard M. Dean                    *       Director
      ---------------------------------------        March 29, 1995
      Howard M. Dean                                          

      /s/  John T. Hackett                   *       Director
      ---------------------------------------        March 29, 1995
      John T. Hackett                                 

      /s/  John F. Lehman                    *       Director
      ---------------------------------------        March 29, 1995
      John F. Lehman                                  

      /s/  Jan Nicholson                     *       Director
      ---------------------------------------        March 29, 1995 
      Jan Nicholson                                   

      /s/  Alvin Owsley                      *       Chairman of the Board and
      ---------------------------------------        Director 
      Alvin Owsley                                   March 29, 1995
                                 

      /s/  George A. Sissel                  *       Acting President and Chief
      ---------------------------------------        Executive Officer and  
      George A. Sissel                               Director        
                                                     March 29, 1995
                               
      /s/  Delbert C. Staley                 *       Director
      ---------------------------------------        March 29, 1995  
      Delbert C. Staley                                       

      /s/  W. Thomas Stephens                *       Director
      ---------------------------------------        March 29, 1995      
      W. Thomas Stephens                             

      /s/  William P. Stiritz                *       Director
      ---------------------------------------        March 29, 1995
      William P. Stiritz                                     

*By George A. Sissel as Attorney-in-Fact pursuant to a Limited Power of Attorney
executed by the directors  listed above,  which Power of Attorney has been filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

                                            By:  /s/ George A. Sissel 
                                                 ------------------------------
                                                 George A. Sissel
                                                 As Attorney-In-Fact
                                                 March 29, 1995



                       BALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994

                               Index to Exhibits


      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
     3.(i)       Amended  Articles  of  Incorporation  as of  November  26, 1990
                 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to the Current Report on
                 Form 8-K dated November 30, 1990) filed December 13, 1990.

     3.(ii)      Bylaws of Ball  Corporation as amended  January 25, 1994 (filed
                 by incorporation by reference to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1993) filed March 29, 1994.

     4.1         Ball  Corporation and its  subsidiaries  have no long-term debt
                 instruments in which the total amount of securities  authorized
                 under any  instrument  exceeds  10% of the total  assets of the
                 registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated  basis.  Ball
                 Corporation  hereby  agrees to furnish a copy of any  long-term
                 debt instruments upon the request of the Commission.

     4.2         Dividend  distribution  payable  to  shareholders  of record on
                 August 4, 1986, of one preferred  stock purchase right for each
                 outstanding share of common  stock  under  the Rights Agreement
                 dated as of July 22, 1986, and  as  amended  by the Amended and
                 Restated Rights Agreement dated as of  January 24, 1990 and the
                 First  Amendment,  dated  as  of  July  27,  1990,  between the
                 corporation  and  The First  National Bank of Chicago (filed by
                 incorporation  by  reference  to  the   Form  8-A  Registration
                 Statement,  No. 1-7349,  dated  July 25,  1986,  as  amended by
                 Form 8, Amendment No. 1, dated January 24, 1990  and by Form 8,
                 Amendment No. 2, dated July 27, 1990) filed August 2, 1990.

     10.1        1975 Stock Option Plan as amended,  1980 Stock Option and Stock
                 Appreciation  Rights  Plan,  as amended,  1983 Stock Option and
                 Stock  Appreciation  Rights  Plan  (filed by  incorporation  by
                 reference to the Form S-8 Registration Statement,  No. 2-82925)
                 filed April 27, 1983.

     10.2        Restricted Stock  Plan  (filed by incorporation by reference to
                 the Form S-8 Registration  Statement, No. 2-61252) filed May 2,
                 1978.

     10.3        1988  Restricted  Stock  Plan and 1988  Stock  Option and Stock
                 Appreciation  Rights Plan (filed by  incorporation by reference
                 to the Form S-8  Registration  Statement,  No.  33-21506) filed
                 April 27, 1988.

     10.4        Ball Corporation Deferred Incentive Compensation Plan (filed by
                 incorporation  by reference  to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1987) filed March 25, 1988.

     10.5        Ball  Corporation 1986 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

     10.6        Ball  Corporation 1988 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

     10.7        Ball  Corporation 1989 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
                 July 1,  1994  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to the
                 Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

     10.8        Form of Severance  Agreement  which exists  between the company
                 and its executive officers (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended
                 October 2, 1994) filed November 15, 1994.

     10.9        An agreement dated September 15, 1988 between Ball  Corporation
                 and Onex  Corporation to form a joint venture  company known as
                 Ball-Onex   Packaging  Corp.,   since  renamed  Ball  Packaging
                 Products  Canada,  Inc. (filed by incorporation by reference to
                 the  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  December 8, 1988) filed
                 December 23, 1988.


     
      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------
     10.10       Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of June 29, 1989 between Ball
                 Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A.  (filed by  incorporation  by
                 reference to the Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                 ended July 2, 1989) filed August 15, 1989.

     10.11       Stock  Purchase  Agreement  dated July 30,  1990  between  Ball
                 Corporation        and       NV        Hollandsch-Amerikaansche
                 Beleggingsmaatschappij       (Holland-American       Investment
                 Corporation)  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference  to  the
                 Current  Report  on Form 8-K dated  November  30,  1990)  filed
                 December  13, 1990,  as amended  under cover of Form 8 filed on
                 February 12, 1991.

     10.12       Ball Corporation 1986 Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors,
                 as  amended  October  27,  1987  (filed  by   incorporation  by
                 reference to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1990) filed April 1, 1991.

     10.13       1991   Restricted  Stock Plan for Nonemployee Directors of Ball
                 Corporation  (filed  by  incorporation  by  reference   to  the
                 Form S-8  Registration Statement, No. 33-40199) filed April 26,
                 1991.

     10.14       Agreement of Purchase and Sale,  dated April 11, 1991,  between
                 Ball  Corporation  and  the  term  lenders  of  Ball  Packaging
                 Products  Canada,  Inc.,  Citibank  Canada,  as Agent (filed by
                 incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                 for the quarter ended March 31, 1991) filed May 15, 1991.

     10.15       Ball  Corporation  Economic Value  Added Incentive Compensation
                 Plan dated January 1, 1994.  (Filed herewith.)

     10.16       Agreement  and  Plan of Merger among Ball Corporation, Ball Sub
                 Corp. and Heekin Can, Inc. dated as of December 1, 1992, and as
                 amended  as  of  December  28,  1992  (filed  by  incorporation
                 by  reference  to  the  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-4,
                 No. 33-58516) filed February 19, 1993.

     10.17       Distribution  Agreement  between Ball Corporation and Alltrista
                 (filed  by   incorporation   by  reference  to  the   Alltrista
                 Corporation  Form 8,  Amendment No. 3 to Form 10, No.  0-21052,
                 dated December 31, 1992) filed March 17, 1993.

     10.18       1993  Stock  Option  Plan (filed by incorporation by  reference
                 to  the  Form S-8 Registration  Statement, No. 33-61986)  filed
                 April 30, 1993.

     10.19       Letter  agreement,  dated March 22, 1993,  confirming offer and
                 terms  of  employment  to  Mr.  John  A.  Haas  as  Group  Vice
                 President;   President,  Metal  Food  Container  and  Specialty
                 Products  Group  (filed by  incorporation  by  reference to the
                 Annual  Report on Form  10-K for the year  ended  December  31,
                 1993) filed March 29, 1994.

     10.20       Employment agreement, dated December 1, 1992, among Heekin Can,
                 Inc.  and John A. Haas (filed by  incorportion  by reference to
                 the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
                 1993) filed March 29, 1994.

     10.21       Retirement  Agreement  dated June 17, 1994,  between Delmont A.
                 Davis and Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July
                 3, 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

     10.22       Ball-InCon Glass Packaging Corp. Deferred Compensation Plan, as
                 amended  July 1, 1994 (filed by  incorporation  by reference to
                 the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

     10.23       Retirement Agreement dated July 29, 1994, between H. Ray Looney
                 and Ball  Corporation  (filed by  incorporation by reference to
                 the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3,
                 1994) filed August 17, 1994.

     10.24       Retention  Agreement  dated June 22, 1994,  between  Donovan B.
                 Hicks and Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference
                 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July
                 3, 1994) filed August 17, 1994.


      Exhibit
      Number     Description of Exhibit
      -------    ---------------------------------------------------------------

     10.25       Ball Corporation  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (filed
                 by  incorporation  by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form
                 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 1994) filed  November 15,
                 1994.

     10.26       Ball  Corporation  Split Dollar Life  Insurance  Plan (filed by
                 incorporation by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                 for the quarter ended October 2, 1994) filed November 15, 1994.

     10.27       Ball   Corporation   Long-Term   Cash   Incentive   Plan, dated
                 October 25, 1994. (Filed herewith.)

     11.1        Statement re: Computation of Earnings Per  Share. (Filed  here-
                 with.)

     13.1        Ball Corporation 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders (The Annual
                 Report  to  Shareholders,  except  for those  portions  thereof
                 incorporated by reference,  is furnished for the information of
                 the  Commission  and is not to be deemed  filed as part of this
                 Form 10-K.) (Filed herewith.)

     21.1        List of Subsidiaries of Ball Corporation.  (Filed herewith.)

     23.1        Consent of Independent Accountants. (Filed herewith.)

     24.1        Limited Power of Attorney.  (Filed herewith.)

     27.1        Financial Data Schedule.  (Filed herewith.)

     99.1        Specimen Certificate of Common Stock (filed by incorporation by
                 reference to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1979) filed March 24, 1980.



