ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Martin Marietta Materials, Inc. (the “Company”) is a leading producer of aggregates products (crushed stone,
sand, and gravel) for the construction industry, including infrastructure, nonresidential, residential, railroad ballast, agricultural, and chemical grade stone used in environmental applications. The Company’s aggregates business also includes
asphalt products, ready mixed concrete, and road paving materials. The Company also has a Specialty Products segment that manufactures and markets magnesia-based chemical products used in industrial, agricultural, and environmental applications, and
dolomitic lime sold primarily to customers in the steel industry. In 2011, the Company’s Aggregates business accounted for 87% of the Company’s total net sales, and the Company’s Specialty Products segment accounted for 13% of the
Company’s total net sales.

The Company was formed in 1993 as a North Carolina corporation to serve as successor to the
operations of the materials group of the organization that is now Lockheed Martin Corporation. An initial public offering of a portion of the Company’s Common Stock was completed in 1994, followed by a tax-free exchange transaction in 1996 that
resulted in 100% of the Company’s Common Stock being publicly traded.

Initially, the Company’s aggregates
operations were predominantly in the Southeast, with additional operations in the Midwest. In 1995, the Company started its geographic expansion with the purchase of an aggregates business that included an extensive waterborne distribution system
along the East and Gulf Coasts and the Mississippi River. Smaller acquisitions that year, including the acquisition of the Company’s granite operations on the Strait of Canso in Nova Scotia, complemented the Company’s new coastal
distribution network.

Subsequent acquisitions in 1997 and 1998 expanded the Company’s Aggregates business in the middle
of the country and added a leading producer of aggregates products in Texas, which provided the Company with access to an extensive rail network in Texas. These two transactions positioned the Company for numerous additional expansion acquisitions
in Ohio, Indiana, and the southwestern regions of the United States, with the Company completing 29 smaller acquisitions between 1997 and 1999, which allowed the Company to enhance and expand its presence in the aggregates marketplace.

In 1998, the Company made an initial investment in an aggregates business that would later serve as the Company’s platform for
further expansion in the southwestern and western United States. In 2001, the Company completed the purchase of all of the remaining interests of this business, which increased its ability to use rail as a mode of transportation.

Effective January 1, 2005, the Company formed a joint venture with Hunt Midwest Enterprises to operate substantially all of the
aggregates facilities of both companies in Kansas City and surrounding areas. The parties contributed a total of 15 active quarry operations to the joint venture.







In 2008, the Company entered into a swap transaction with Vulcan Materials Company
(“Vulcan”), pursuant to which it acquired six quarry locations in Georgia and Tennessee. The acquired locations significantly expanded the Company’s presence in Georgia and Tennessee, particularly south and west of Atlanta, Georgia.
The Company also acquired a land parcel previously leased from Vulcan at the Company’s Three Rivers Quarry near Paducah, Kentucky. In addition to a cash payment, as part of this swap, the Company divested to Vulcan its only California quarry
located in Oroville, an idle facility north of San Antonio, Texas, and land in Henderson, North Carolina, formerly leased to Vulcan.

In 2009, the Company acquired three quarry locations plus the remaining 49% interest in an existing joint venture from CEMEX, Inc. The quarry operations are located in Nebraska, Wyoming, and Utah, while
the 49% interest purchased relates to a quarry in Wyoming where the Company was the operating manager. The acquired locations enhanced the Company’s existing long-haul distribution network and provided attractive product synergies.

In 2010, the Company acquired a deep-water port facility in Port Canaveral, Florida, which serves the greater Orlando market, the
second-largest aggregates-consuming area in Florida. The Port Canaveral acquisition, the only developed deep-water aggregates import terminal located on Florida’s central east coast, was complemented by the Company’s organic investment in
2010 in a new aggregates import facility at Port Manatee, Florida.

In 2011, the Company acquired three aggregates-related
businesses. First, it acquired the assets of an aggregates, asphalt, and ready mixed concrete business located in western San Antonio, Texas. Next, it exchanged certain assets with Lafarge North America Inc. (“Lafarge”), pursuant to which
it received aggregate quarry sites, ready mixed concrete and asphalt plants, and a road paving business in and around the metropolitan Denver, Colorado, region, in exchange for which Lafarge received properties consisting of quarries, an asphalt
plant, and distribution yards operated by the Company along the Mississippi River (referred to herein as the Company’s “River District Operations”) and a cash payment. Finally, the Company acquired a privately-held ready mixed
concrete business in the Denver, Colorado area.

Between 2001 and 2011, the Company disposed of or permanently shut down a
number of underperforming operations, including aggregates, asphalt, ready mixed concrete, trucking, and road paving operations of its Aggregates business and the refractories business of its Specialty Products segment. In some of its divestitures,
the Company concurrently entered into supply agreements to provide aggregates at market rates to certain of these divested businesses. The Company will continue to evaluate opportunities to divest underperforming assets during 2012 in an effort to
redeploy capital for other opportunities.

Recent Developments

On December 12, 2011, the Company proposed a business combination with Vulcan that would create a U.S.-based company that would be
the global leader in construction aggregates (hereinafter, referred to as “proposed business combination with Vulcan”). The proposed business combination with Vulcan would be effected through a stock-for-stock, tax-free transaction,
in which each outstanding share of Vulcan common stock will be exchanged for 0.50 of a share of the Company’s







common stock (together with the associated preferred stock purchase rights). On December 12, 2011 the Company commenced an exchange offer for all of the outstanding shares of Vulcan common
stock at the same exchange ratio. The proposed business combination with Vulcan and the exchange offer has the unanimous support of the Company’s Board of Directors. The offer represents a premium for Vulcan shareholders of 15% to the average
exchange ratio based on the closing share prices for Vulcan and the Company during the 10-day period ended December 9, 2011, the trading day before the commencement of the offer, and 18% to the average exchange ratio based on the closing share
prices for Vulcan and the Company during the 30-day period ended December 9, 2011. If all shares of Vulcan common stock are exchanged pursuant to the offer, former Vulcan shareholders would own, in the aggregate, approximately 58% of the
outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, based on the proposed exchange ratio. The Company also intends to maintain the dividend for the combined company at the Company’s current rate of $1.60 per share annually, or the equivalent
of $0.80 per Vulcan share annually, based on the proposed exchange ratio.

In furtherance of the proposed business combination
with Vulcan, the Company submitted notice to Vulcan of its intention to nominate five independent director candidates for election to Vulcan’s Board of Directors at Vulcan’s 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and filed a preliminary proxy
statement (and amendments thereto) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) in connection with the proposal. The Company’s nominees, if elected, would replace the Vulcan directors whose terms are scheduled to expire in
2012. The Company intends to file a definitive proxy statement and when completed, the Company’s definitive proxy statement and accompanying proxy card will be mailed to Vulcan shareholders.

Management believes that a strategic combination of the Company and Vulcan is compelling financially and operationally, and that such a
combination provides significant benefits for shareholders of both companies, as well as their employees, customers and communities. Management is committed to and intends to take the necessary steps to consummate the proposed business combination
with Vulcan.

Risks and uncertainties relating to the Company’s proposed business combination with Vulcan are summarized
under Item IA, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K. For additional information regarding the proposed business combination with Vulcan, please see the prospectus/offer to exchange included in the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed
with the SEC on December 12, 2011 (as may be amended from time to time).

Business Segment Information

The Company operates in four reportable business segments: the Mideast Group, Southeast Group, and West Group, collectively the Aggregates
business, and the Specialty Products segment. The Specialty Products segment includes the magnesia-based chemicals and dolomitic lime businesses. Information concerning the Company’s total revenues, net sales, gross profit, earnings from
operations, assets employed, and certain additional information attributable to each reportable business segment for each year in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011 is included in “Note O: Business Segments” of the
“Notes to Financial Statements” of the Company’s 2011 consolidated financial statements (the “2011 Financial Statements”), which are included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and







are part of the Company’s 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders (the “2011 Annual Report”), which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Aggregates Business

The Aggregates business mines, processes and sells granite, limestone, sand, gravel, and other aggregate products for use in all sectors of the public infrastructure, nonresidential and residential
construction industries, as well as agriculture, railroad ballast, chemical, and other uses. The Aggregates business also includes the operation of other construction materials businesses. These businesses, located primarily in the West Group, were
acquired through continued selective vertical integration by the Company, and include asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road paving operations.

The Company is the second largest producer of aggregates for the construction industry in the United States. In 2011, inclusive of 6.3 million tons attributable to operations divested during the
year, the Company’s Aggregates business shipped 125.1 million tons of aggregates primarily to customers in 31 states, Canada, the Bahamas, and the Caribbean Islands. For continuing operations, the business shipped 118.8 million tons
of aggregates, generating net sales and earnings from operations of $1.3 billion and $127.5 million, respectively.

The
Aggregates business markets its products primarily to the construction industry, with approximately 54% of its heritage aggregates shipments made to contractors in connection with highway and other public infrastructure projects and the balance of
its shipments made primarily to contractors in connection with nonresidential and residential construction projects. As a result of dependence upon the construction industry, the profitability of aggregates producers is sensitive to national,
regional, and local economic conditions, and particularly to cyclical swings in construction spending, which is affected by fluctuations in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in the level of infrastructure spending funded
by the public sector.

The Company’s aggregates shipments volume has ranged from 123 million tons to
130 million tons over the last three years, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability in a cyclical trough environment. Overall aggregates shipments declined 3.8% in 2011 after a 5.4% increase in 2010 in aggregates shipments over 2009
levels representing the Company’s first year of volume growth since 2005. The Company’s heritage aggregates shipments declined 3.5% in 2011 compared to 2010. Heritage aggregates shipments exclude tonnage from acquisitions that were not
included in prior-year operations for a full year and divestitures. Prior to 2010, the ongoing economic recession had resulted in unprecedented reductions in aggregates shipments, as evidenced by United States aggregates consumption declining by
almost 40% from peak volumes in 2006. Aggregates shipments have also suffered as states continue to balance their construction spending with the uncertainty related to long-term federal highway funding and budget shortfalls caused by decreasing tax
revenues.

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), the federal economic stimulus plan signed
into law in February 2009, provided approximately $28.6 billion of additional funding for highways, roads, bridges and airports through 2012. However, the lack of shovel-ready projects delayed the impact of ARRA on the aggregates industry. As of
December 31, 2011, approximately 15% of ARRA infrastructure funds remain and, by law, must be spent in 2012. Based on its market positions, the Company estimates that it has supplied approximately 6% to 8% of







aggregates required for projects funded by ARRA and will supply approximately the same percentage amounts in 2012.

The Company’s Aggregates business covers a wide geographic area, with aggregates, asphalt products, and ready mixed concrete sold and shipped from a network of approximately 304 quarries, underground
mines, distribution facilities, and plants to customers in 31 states, Canada, the Bahamas, and the Caribbean Islands. The Company’s five largest revenue-generating states (Texas, North Carolina, Iowa, Georgia, and South Carolina) account for
approximately 57% of total 2011 net sales for the Aggregates business by state of destination. The Company’s Aggregates business is accordingly affected by the economies in these regions and has been adversely affected in part by recessions and
weaknesses in these economies from time to time. The economic recession nationally and in these states has negatively impacted the Company’s Aggregates business.

Natural aggregates sources can be found in relatively homogeneous deposits in certain areas of the United States. As a general rule,
truck shipments from an individual quarry are limited because the cost of transporting processed aggregates to customers is high in relation to the price of the product itself. As described below, the Company’s distribution system mainly uses
trucks, but also has access to a river barge and ocean vessel network where the per mile unit cost of transporting aggregates is much lower. In addition, acquisitions have enabled the Company to extend its customer base through increased access to
rail transportation. Proximity of quarry facilities to customers or to long-haul transportation corridors is an important factor in competition for aggregates business.







During the recent economic recession, the Company set a priority of preserving capital while maintaining safe, environmentally-sound
operations. As the Company returns to a more normalized operating environment, management expects to focus a significant part of its capital growth spending program on expanding key Southeast and Southwest operations. In 2010, the Company acquired a
deep-water port operation in Port Canaveral, Florida that serves the greater Orlando market. In 2011, the Company opened an aggregates sales yard near Tampa, Florida, adding to its rail-distribution network and serving the Tampa and Lakeland,
Florida, markets. In addition to capital projects for the Aggregates business, in 2011, the Company initiated construction of a $53 million dolomitic lime kiln at its Specialty Products location in Woodville, Ohio, which is expected to add over
275,000 additional tons of capacity per year. This project is expected to be completed in late 2012.

In addition, the
Company’s acquisitions and capital projects have expanded its ability to ship material by rail, as discussed in more detail below. The Company has added additional capacity in a number of locations that can now accommodate larger unit train
movements. These expansion projects have enhanced the Company’s long-haul distribution network. The Company’s process improvement program has also improved operational effectiveness through plant automation, mobile fleet modernization,
right-sizing, and other cost control improvements. Accordingly, the Company has enhanced its reach through its ability to provide cost-effective coverage of coastal markets on the east and gulf coasts, as well as geographic areas that can be
accessed economically by the Company’s expanded distribution system. This distribution network moves aggregates materials from domestic and offshore sources, via rail and water, to markets where aggregates supply is limited.

The water and rail distribution network initially resulted in the Company increasing its market share in certain areas. However, recent
consolidation in the aggregates industry has made it more competitive for the Company in various parts of the country. The Company believes that as shipment volumes recover, the Company will increase its market share in those areas.

As the Company continues to move more aggregates by rail and water, internal freight costs have consequently reduced gross margins. This
typically occurs where the Company transports







aggregates from a production location to a distribution location by rail or water, and the customer pays a selling price that includes a freight component. Margins are negatively affected because
the Company typically does not charge the customer a profit associated with the transportation component of the selling price of the materials. Moreover, the Company’s expansion of its rail-based distribution network, coupled with the extensive
use of rail service in the Southeast and West Groups, increase the Company’s dependence on and exposure to railroad performance, including track congestion, crew availability, and power availability, and the ability to renegotiate favorable
railroad shipping contracts. The waterborne distribution network, primarily located within the Southeast Group, also increases the Company’s exposure to certain risks, including the ability to negotiate favorable shipping contracts, demurrage
costs, fuel costs, ship, or barge availability, and weather disruptions. The Company has entered into long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport the Company’s aggregates to various coastal ports.

The Company’s long-term shipping contracts are generally take-or-pay contracts with minimum and maximum shipping requirements. If
the Company fails to ship the annual minimum tonnages under the agreement, it must still pay the shipping company the contractually-stated minimum amount for that year. In 2011, the Company incurred a $0.3 million expense due to not shipping the
minimum tonnages. Similar charges are possible in 2012 if shipment volumes do not increase.

From time to time the Company has
experienced rail transportation shortages, particularly in the Southwest and Southeast. These shortages were caused by the downsizing in personnel and equipment by certain railroads during economic downturns. Further, in response to these issues,
rail transportation providers focused on increasing the number of cars per unit train under transportation contracts and are generally requiring customers, through the freight rate structure, to accommodate larger unit train movements. A unit train
is a freight train moving large tonnages of a single bulk product between two points without intermediate yarding and switching. Certain of the Company’s sales yards have the system capabilities to meet the unit train requirements. Over the
last few years, the Company has made capital improvements to a number of its sales yards in order to better accommodate unit train unloadings. Rail availability is seasonal and can impact aggregates shipments depending on competing movements.

The Company’s management expects the multiple transportation modes that have been developed with various rail carriers
and via deepwater ships, and barges should provide the Company with the flexibility to effectively serve customers in the southeastern and southwestern regions of the United States.

The construction aggregates industry has been consolidating, and the Company has actively participated in the consolidation of the
industry. When acquired, new locations sometimes do not satisfy the Company’s internal safety, maintenance, and pit development standards, and may require additional resources before benefits of the acquisitions are fully realized. Industry
consolidation has slowed in the last several years as the number of suitable small to mid-sized acquisition targets in high-growth markets declines. During the recent period of fewer acquisition opportunities, the Company has focused on investing in
internal expansion projects in high-growth markets. Management anticipates the number of acquisition opportunities to increase as a result of the protracted recession. Opportunities include public and larger private, family-owned businesses, as well
as asset divestitures







from companies rationalizing non-core assets and repairing financially-constrained balanced sheets. The Company’s Board of Directors and management continue to review and monitor the
Company’s strategic long-term plans, which include assessing business combinations and arrangements with other companies engaged in similar businesses, increasing market share in the Company’s core businesses, investing in internal
expansion projects in high-growth markets, and pursuing new opportunities related to the Company’s existing markets.

General

Environmental and zoning regulations have made it
increasingly difficult for the aggregates industry to expand existing quarries and to develop new quarry operations. Although it cannot be predicted what policies will be adopted in the future by federal, state, and local governmental bodies
regarding these matters, the Company anticipates that future restrictions will likely make zoning and permitting more difficult, thereby potentially enhancing the value of the Company’s existing mineral reserves.

Management believes the Aggregates business’ raw materials, or aggregates reserves, are sufficient to permit production at present
operational levels for the foreseeable future. The Company does not anticipate any material difficulty in obtaining the raw materials that it uses for current production in its Aggregates business. The Company’s aggregates reserves on the
average exceed 60 years of production, based on normalized levels of production. However, certain locations may be subject to more limited reserves and may not be able to expand. Moreover, as noted above, environmental and zoning regulations will
likely make it harder for the Company to expand its existing quarries or develop new quarry operations. The Company generally sells products in its Aggregates business upon receipt of orders or requests from customers. Accordingly, there is no
significant order







backlog. The Company generally maintains inventories of aggregate products in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of customers.

Less than 2% of the revenues from the Aggregates business are from foreign jurisdictions, principally Canada and the Bahamas, with
revenues from customers in foreign countries totaling $17.5 million, $17.0 million, and $19.8 million during 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

Specialty Products Business

The Company manufactures and markets,
through its Specialty Products business, magnesia-based chemical products for industrial, agricultural, and environmental applications, and dolomitic lime for use primarily in the steel industry. These chemical products have varying uses, including
flame retardants, wastewater treatment, pulp and paper production, and other environmental applications. In 2011, 71% of Specialty Products’ net sales were attributable to chemical products, 28% to lime, and 1% to stone. Overall net sales in
the Specialty Products business increased in 2011 reflecting growth in both magnesia chemicals sales and dolomitic lime shipments to the steel industry.

Given the high fixed costs associated with operating this business, low capacity utilization negatively affects its results of operations. A significant portion of the costs related to the production of
magnesia-based products and dolomitic lime is of a fixed or semi-fixed nature. In addition, the production of certain magnesia chemical products and lime products requires natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke to fuel kilns. Price fluctuations of
these fuels affect the profitability of this business.

In 2011, approximately 72% of the lime produced was sold to
third-party customers, while the remaining 28% was used internally as a raw material in making the business’ chemical products. Dolomitic lime products sold to external customers are used primarily by the steel industry. Products used in the
steel industry accounted for approximately 46% of the Specialty Products’ net sales in 2011, attributable primarily to the sale of dolomitic lime products. Accordingly, a portion of the profitability of the Specialty Products business is
dependent on steel production capacity utilization and the related marketplace. These trends are guided by the rate of consumer consumption, the flow of offshore imports, and other economic factors. In 2011, steelmaking rates in the United States
improved 8% over 2010, driven by growth from the auto, energy and heavy equipment manufacturing segments. Production rates for steel were approximately 75% in 2011, up from 70% in 2010, of domestic steelmaking capacity. According to Fitch Ratings,
steel demand is expected to continue to grow, but not reach full recovery until 2013 at the earliest. Additionally, average capacity utilization is expected to rise but not reach 80% on average in 2012.

Management has shifted the strategic focus of the magnesia-based business to specialty chemicals that can be produced at volume levels
that support efficient operations. Accordingly, that business is not as dependent on the steel industry as is the dolomitic lime portion of the Specialty Products business.

The principal raw materials used in the Specialty Products business are dolomitic limestone and alkali-rich brine. Management believes that its reserves of dolomitic limestone and brine are sufficient to
permit production at the current operational levels for the foreseeable future.







After the brine is used in the production process, the Specialty Products business must
dispose of the processed brine. In the past, the business did this by reinjecting the processed brine back into its underground brine reserve network around its facility in Manistee, Michigan. The business has also sold a portion of this processed
brine to third parties. In 2003, Specialty Products entered into a long-term processed brine supply agreement with The Dow Chemical Company (“Dow”) pursuant to which Dow purchases processed brine from Specialty Products, at market rates,
for use in Dow’s production of calcium chloride products. Specialty Products also entered into a venture with Dow to construct, own, and operate a processed brine supply pipeline between the Specialty Products facility in Manistee, Michigan,
and Dow’s facility in Ludington, Michigan. Construction of the pipeline was completed in 2003, and Dow began purchasing processed brine from Specialty Products through the pipeline. In 2010, Dow sold the assets of Dow’s facility in
Ludington, Michigan to Occidental Chemical Corporation (“Occidental”) and assigned to Occidental its interests in the long-term processed brine supply agreement and the pipeline venture with Specialty Products.

Specialty Products generally delivers its products upon receipt of orders or requests from customers. Accordingly, there is no
significant order backlog. Inventory for products is generally maintained in sufficient quantities to meet rapid delivery requirements of customers.

Approximately 11% of the revenues of the Specialty Products business in 2011 were from foreign jurisdictions, principally Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and the Pacific Rim, so no single foreign
country accounted for 10% or more of the revenues of the business. Revenues from customers in foreign countries totaled $24.2 million, $17.1 million, and $16.2 million, in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. As a result of these foreign market
sales, the financial results of the Specialty Products business could be affected by foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets. To mitigate the short-term effects of currency exchange rates, the Specialty
Products business principally uses the U.S. dollar as the functional currency in foreign transactions.

The Company is
currently constructing a new dolomitic lime kiln for its Specialty Products business at Woodville, Ohio. The new dolomitic lime capacity is committed under a long-term contract and is expected to add over 275,000 tons of capacity and $22 million to
$25 million of annual net sales to the Specialty Products segment at comparable current margins when completed in late 2012.

Patents
and Trademarks

As of February 29, 2012, the Company owns, has the right to use, or has pending applications for
approximately 98 patents pending or granted by the United States and various countries and approximately 107 trademarks related to business. The Company believes that its rights under its existing patents, patent applications, and trademarks are of
value to its operations, but no one patent or trademark or group of patents or trademarks is material to the conduct of the Company’s business as a whole.

Customers

No material part of the business of any segment of the
Company is dependent upon a single customer or upon a few customers, the loss of any one of which would have a material adverse effect on the segment. The Company’s products are sold principally to commercial customers in private







industry. Although large amounts of construction materials are used in public works projects, relatively insignificant sales are made directly to federal, state, county, or municipal governments,
or agencies thereof.

Competition

Because of the impact of transportation costs on the aggregates industry, competition in the Aggregates business tends to be limited to producers in proximity to each of the Company’s facilities.
Although all of the Company’s locations experience competition, the Company believes that it is generally a leading producer in the areas it serves. Competition is based primarily on quarry or distribution location and price, but quality of
aggregates and level of customer service are also factors.

There are over 5,500 companies in the United States that produce
construction aggregates. These include active crushed stone companies and active sand and gravel companies. The largest ten producers account for approximately 35% of the total market. The Company, in its Aggregates business, competes with a number
of other large and small producers. The Company believes that its ability to transport materials by ocean vessels, rail, and river barges have enhanced the Company’s ability to compete in the aggregates business. Some of the Company’s
competitors in the aggregates industry have greater financial resources than the Company.

The Company’s Specialty
Products business competes with various companies in different geographic and product areas principally on the basis of quality, price, technological advances, and technical support for its products. The Specialty Products business also competes for
sales to customers located outside the United States, with revenues from foreign jurisdictions accounting for approximately 11% of revenues for the Specialty Products business in 2011, principally in Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and the
Pacific Rim. Certain of the Company’s competitors in the Specialty Products business have greater financial resources than the Company.

Research and Development

The Company conducts research and development activities principally for its magnesia-based chemicals business, at its plant in Manistee, Michigan. In general, the Company’s research and development
efforts are directed to applied technological development for the use of its chemicals products. The amounts spent by the Company in each of the last two years on research and development activities were not considered material.

Environmental and Governmental Regulations

The Company’s operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety, and other regulatory matters. Certain of the
Company’s operations may from time to time involve the use of substances that are classified as toxic or hazardous substances within the meaning of these laws and regulations. Environmental operating permits are, or may be, required for certain
of the Company’s operations, and such permits are subject to modification, renewal, and revocation.







The Company records an accrual for environmental remediation liabilities in the period in
which it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change. The accruals are not discounted to their present value or offset
for potential insurance or other claims or potential gains from future alternative uses for a site.

Many of the requirements of the environmental laws are satisfied by
procedures that the Company adopts as best business practices in the ordinary course of its operations. For example, plant equipment that is used to crush aggregates products may, as an ordinary course of operations, have an attached water spray bar
that is used to clean the stone. The water spray bar also suffices as a dust control mechanism that complies with applicable environmental laws. The Company does not break out the portion of the cost, depreciation, and other financial information
relating to the water spray bar that is only attributable to environmental purposes, as it would be derived from an arbitrary allocation methodology. The incremental portion of such operating costs that is attributable to environmental compliance
rather than best operating practices is impractical to quantify. Accordingly, the Company expenses costs in that category when incurred as operating expenses.

The environmental accruals recorded by the Company are based on internal studies of the required remediation costs and estimates of potential costs that arise from time to time under federal, state,
and/or local environmental protection laws. Many of these laws and the regulations promulgated under them are complex, and are subject to challenges and new interpretations by regulators and the courts from time to time. In addition, new laws are
adopted from time to time. It is often difficult to accurately and fully quantify the costs to comply with new rules until it is determined the type of operations to which they will apply and the manner in which they will be implemented is more
accurately defined. This process often takes years to finalize and changes significantly from the time the rules are proposed to the time they are final. The Company typically has several appropriate alternatives available to satisfy compliance
requirements, which could range from nominal costs to some alternatives that may be satisfied in conjunction with equipment replacement or expansion that also benefits operating efficiencies or capacities and carry significantly higher costs.







Management believes that its current accrual for environmental costs is reasonable, although
those amounts may increase or decrease depending on the impact of applicable rules as they are finalized from time to time and changes in facts and circumstances. The Company believes that any additional costs for ongoing environmental compliance
would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s obligations or financial condition.

The Company believes that its
operations and facilities, both owned or leased, are in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations and that any noncompliance is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or financial condition.
See “Legal Proceedings” under Item 3 of this Form 10-K, “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the 2011 Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K
and the 2011 Annual Report, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Regulation and Litigation” included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and the 2011 Annual Report.
However, future events, such as changes in or modified interpretations of existing laws and regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of certain products or business activities, may
give rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

In general,
quarry and mining facilities must comply with air quality, water quality, and noise regulations, zoning and special use permitting requirements, applicable mining regulations, and federal health and safety requirements. As new quarry and mining
sites are located and acquired, the Company works closely with local authorities during the zoning and permitting processes to design new quarries and mines in such a way as to minimize disturbances. The Company frequently acquires large tracts of
land so that quarry, mine, and production facilities can be situated substantial distances from surrounding property owners. Also, in certain markets the Company’s ability to transport material by rail and ship allows it to locate its
facilities further away from residential areas. The Company has established policies designed to minimize disturbances to surrounding property owners from its operations.







As is the case with other companies in the same industry, some of the Company’s
products contain varying amounts of crystalline silica, a common mineral also known as quartz. Excessive, prolonged inhalation of very small-sized particles of crystalline silica has been associated with lung diseases, including silicosis, and
several scientific organizations and some states, such as California, have reported that crystalline silica can cause lung cancer. The Mine Safety and Health Administration and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration have established
occupational thresholds for crystalline silica exposure as respirable dust. The Company monitors occupational exposures at its facilities and implements dust control procedures and/or makes available appropriate respiratory protective equipment to
maintain the occupational exposures at or below the appropriate levels. The Company, through safety information sheets and other means, also communicates what it believes to be appropriate warnings and cautions its employees and customers about the
risks associated with excessive, prolonged inhalation of mineral dust in general and crystalline silica in particular.

In
2010, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) included the lime industry as a national enforcement priority under the federal Clean Air Act (“CAA”). As part of the industry wide effort, the USEPA issued
Notices of Violation/Findings of Violation (“NOVs”) to the Company in 2010 and 2011 regarding the Company’s compliance with the CAA New Source Review (“NSR”) program at the Specialty Products dolomitic lime
manufacturing plant in Woodville, Ohio. The Company has been providing information to the USEPA in response to these NOVs and has had several meetings with the USEPA. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the NSR
program. Because the enforcement proceeding is in its initial stage, at this time the Company cannot reasonably estimate what reasonable likely penalties or required upgrades to equipment might ultimately be required. The Company believes that
any costs related to any required upgrades will be spread over time and will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or its financial condition, but can give no assurance that the ultimate resolution of this matter will
not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Specialty Products segment of the business.







Administrative Order with the MDEQ to pay for a portion of MDEQ’s past investigation costs and thereby limit its liability for past costs in the amount of $20,000. Michigan law provides that
responsible parties are jointly and severally liable, and, therefore, Magnesia Specialties is potentially liable for the full cost of funding future investigative activities and any necessary remediation. Michigan law also provides a procedure
whereby liability may be apportioned among responsible parties if it is capable of division. The Company believes that the liability most likely will be apportioned and that any such costs attributed to Magnesia Specialties’ brine contamination
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or its financial condition, but can give no assurance that the liability will be apportioned or that the compliance costs will not have a material adverse effect on the
financial condition or results of the operations of the Specialty Products business.

In September 2005, the USEPA
designated several entities as potentially responsible parties (PRPs) under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), at the Ward Transformer Superfund site located in Raleigh, North Carolina. In
April 2009, two PRPs filed separate actions in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina against more than 100 other entities, including the Company, seeking contribution from the defendants for expenses incurred by the
plaintiffs related to work performed at a portion of the site. The USEPA has not designated the Company as a PRP. The ultimate outcome of these matters will depend upon further environmental assessment and the ultimate number of PRPs and defendants
who are held liable for the costs and cannot be determined at this time. The Company believes that any liability will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.







Employees

As of January 31, 2012, the Company has
approximately 4,993 employees, of which 3,709 are hourly employees and 1,284 are salaried employees. Included among these employees are 768 hourly employees represented by labor unions (15.0% of the Company’s employees). Of such amount, 15.2%
of the Company’s Aggregates business’s hourly employees are members of a labor union, while 100% of the Specialty Products segment’s hourly employees are represented by labor unions. The Company’s principal union contracts cover
employees of the Specialty Products business at the Manistee, Michigan, magnesia-based chemicals plant and the Woodville, Ohio, lime plant. The Manistee collective bargaining agreement expires in August 2015. The Woodville collective bargaining
agreement expires in June 2014. While the Company’s management does not expect significant difficulties in renewing these labor contracts, there can be no assurance that a successor agreement will be reached at either location. The Company
added a net increase of approximately 463 employees directly related to the acquisitions it completed in 2011.

Available Information

The Company maintains an Internet address atwww.martinmarietta.com. The Company makes available free of charge
through its Internet web site its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, if any, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These
reports and any amendments are accessed via the Company’s web site through a link with the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (“EDGAR”) system maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”)
atwww.sec.gov. Accordingly, the Company’s referenced reports and any amendments are







made available as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC, once EDGAR places such material in its database.

The Company has adopted aCode of Ethics and Standards of Conductthat applies to all of its directors, officers, and
employees. The Company’s code of ethics is available on the Company’s web site atwww.martinmarietta.com. The Company intends to disclose on its Internet web site any waivers of or amendments to its code of ethics as it applies to
its directors and executive officers.

The Company has adopted a set ofCorporate Governance Guidelinesto address
issues of fundamental importance relating to the corporate governance of the Company, including director qualifications and responsibilities, responsibilities of key board committees, director compensation, and similar issues. Each of the Audit
Committee, the Management Development and Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted a written charter addressing various issues of importance relating to each
committee, including the committee’s purposes and responsibilities, an annual performance evaluation of each committee, and similar issues. TheseCorporate Governance Guidelines, and the charters of each of these committees, are
available on the Company’s web site atwww.martinmarietta.com.

The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer are required to file with the SEC each quarter and each year certifications regarding the quality of the Company’s public disclosure of its financial condition. The annual certifications are included as Exhibits to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer is also required to certify to the New York Stock Exchange each year that he is not aware of any violation by the Company of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance
listing standards.

The Company maintains an internet address at www.aggregatesleader.com to provide additional information
about the proposed business combination with Vulcan.



