ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

The Company was formed in 1993
as a North Carolina corporation to serve as successor to the operations of the materials group of the organization that is now Lockheed Martin Corporation. An initial public offering of a portion of the Company’s Common Stock was completed in
1994, followed by a tax-free exchange transaction in 1996 that resulted in 100% of the Company’s Common Stock being publicly traded.

Initially, the Company’s aggregates operations were predominantly in the Southeast, with additional operations in the Midwest. In 1995,
the Company started its geographic expansion with the purchase of an aggregates business that included an extensive waterborne distribution system along the East and Gulf Coasts and the Mississippi River and provided the Company a shipping position
from the Bahamas. Smaller acquisitions that year, including the acquisition of the Company’s granite operations on the Strait of Canso in Nova Scotia, complemented the Company’s new coastal distribution network.

Subsequent acquisitions in 1997 and 1998 expanded the Company’s Aggregates business in the Ohio River Valley and added a leading producer
of aggregates products in Texas, which provided the Company with access to an extensive rail network in Texas. Additionally, in 1998, the Company made an initial investment in an aggregates business that would later serve as the Company’s
platform for further expansion in the southwestern and western United States. In 2001, the Company completed the purchase of all of the remaining interests of this business. These acquisitions increased the Company’s ability to use rail as a
mode of transportation.

These transactions positioned the Company for numerous additional expansion acquisitions, with the Company
completing over 80 smaller acquisitions from the time of its initial public offering until the present, which allowed the Company to enhance and expand its presence in the aggregates marketplace.







In 2008, the Company entered into an asset exchange transaction with Vulcan Materials Company
(“Vulcan”), pursuant to which it acquired six quarry locations in Georgia and Tennessee. The acquired locations significantly expanded the Company’s presence, particularly south and west of Atlanta, Georgia. The Company also acquired
a land parcel previously leased from Vulcan at the Company’s Three Rivers Quarry near Paducah, Kentucky. In addition to a cash payment, as part of this exchange, the Company divested to Vulcan the only California quarry it then owned located in
Oroville, an idle facility north of San Antonio, Texas, and land in Henderson, North Carolina, formerly leased to Vulcan.

In 2009, the
Company acquired three quarry locations plus the remaining 49% interest in an existing joint venture from CEMEX, Inc. The quarry operations are located in Nebraska, Wyoming, and Utah, while the 49% interest purchased related to a quarry in Wyoming
where the Company was the operating manager. The acquired locations enhanced the Company’s existing long-haul distribution network and provided attractive product synergies.

In 2010, the Company acquired a deep-water port facility in Port Canaveral, Florida, which serves the greater Orlando market, the
second-largest aggregates-consuming area in Florida. The Port Canaveral acquisition, the only developed deep-water aggregates import terminal located on Florida’s central east coast, was complemented by the Company’s organic investment in
2010 in a new aggregates import facility at Port Manatee, Florida.

In 2011, the Company acquired three aggregates-related businesses.
First, it acquired the assets of an aggregates, asphalt, and ready mixed concrete business located in western San Antonio, Texas. Second, it exchanged certain assets with LafargeNorth America Inc. (“Lafarge”), pursuant to which it
received aggregate quarry sites, ready mixed concrete and asphalt plants, and a road paving business in and around the metropolitan Denver, Colorado, region, in exchange for which Lafarge received properties consisting of quarries, an asphalt plant,
and distribution yards operated by the Company along the Mississippi River (referred to herein as the Company’s “River District Operations”) and a cash payment. Finally, the Company acquired a privately-held ready mixed concrete
business in the Denver, Colorado area.

In 2013, the Company acquired three aggregates quarries in the greater Atlanta, Georgia area. The
transaction provided over 800 million tons of permitted aggregate reserves and enhanced the Company’s existing long-term position in this market.

In 2014, the Company completed the acquisition of TXI, further augmenting its position as a leading supplier of aggregates and heavy building
materials. TXI, as a stand-alone entity, was a leading supplier of heavy construction materials in the southwestern United States and a major supplier of natural aggregates and ready-mixed concrete in Texas, northern Louisiana and, to a lesser
extent, in Oklahoma and Arkansas. TXI was the largest supplier of construction aggregates, ready mixed concrete, concrete products, and cement in Texas. TXI was also a major cement producer in California. Now as a wholly-owned subsidiary, TXI
enhances the Company’s position as an aggregates-led, low cost operator in the large and fast-growing geographies in the United States and provides high quality assets in cement and ready mixed concrete.

In addition to the Cement business, the Company acquired as part of the TXI acquisition nine quarries and six aggregates distribution
terminals located in Texas, Louisiana, and Oklahoma. The Company also acquired approximately 120 ready mixed concrete plants, situated primarily in three areas of Texas (the Dallas/Fort Worth/Denton area of north Texas; the Austin area of central
Texas; and from Beaumont to Texarkana in east Texas), in north and central Louisiana, and in Southwestern Arkansas. The aggregates and ready mixed concrete operations are reported in the Company’s West Group of its Aggregates business. As part
of an agreement with the United States Department of Justice’s review of the transaction, the Company divested of its North Troy Quarry in Oklahoma and two related rail distribution yards in Dallas and Frisco, Texas.







Between 2001 and 2014, the Company disposed of or idled a number of underperforming operations,
including aggregates, asphalt, ready mixed concrete, trucking, and road paving operations of its Aggregates business and the refractories business of its Magnesia Specialties business. In some of its divestitures, the Company concurrently entered
into supply agreements to provide aggregates at market rates to certain of these divested businesses. During 2014 the Company disposed of certain underperforming road paving operations in Arkansas and east Texas. The Company will continue to
evaluate opportunities to divest underperforming assets during 2015 in an effort to redeploy capital for other opportunities.

Business Segment
Information

The Company conducts its Aggregates business through three reportable segments: the Mid-America Group, Southeast
Group, and West Group. The Company’s Cement business is reported through the Cement segment. The Company also has the Magnesia Specialties segment, which includes its magnesia-based chemicals and dolomitic lime businesses. Information
concerning the Company’s total revenues, net sales, gross profit, earnings from operations, assets employed, and certain additional information attributable to each reportable business segment for each year in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2014 is included in “Note O: Business Segments” of the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the Company’s 2014 consolidated financial statements (the “2014 Financial Statements”), which are included
under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and are part of the Company’s 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders (the “2014 Annual Report”), which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Aggregates Business

The
Aggregates business mines, processes and sells granite, limestone, sand, gravel, and other aggregate products for use in all sectors of the public infrastructure, nonresidential and residential construction industries, as well as agriculture,
railroad ballast, chemical, and other uses. The Aggregates business also includes the operation of other construction materials businesses. These businesses, located in the West Group, were acquired through continued selective vertical integration
by the Company, and include asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road paving operations in Arkansas, Colorado, Louisiana, Texas, and Wyoming.

The Company is a leading supplier of aggregates for the construction industry in the United States. In 2014, the Company’s Aggregates
business shipped and delivered aggregates, asphalt products, and ready mixed concrete from a network of over 400 quarries, underground mines, distribution facilities, and plants to customers in 32 states, Canada, the Bahamas, and the Caribbean
Islands, generating net sales and earnings from operations of $2.2 billion and $320.1 million, respectively.

The Aggregates and Cement
business markets its products primarily to the construction industry, with approximately 44% of its aggregates shipments made to contractors in connection with highway and other public infrastructure projects and the balance of its shipments made
primarily to contractors in connection with nonresidential and residential construction projects. The Company believes public-works projects have historically accounted for approximately 50% of the total annual aggregates and cement consumption in
the United States. These businesses benefit from public-works construction projects. As a result of dependence upon the construction industry, the profitability of aggregates and cement producers is sensitive to national, regional, and local
economic conditions, and particularly to cyclical swings in construction spending, which is affected by fluctuations in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in the level of infrastructure spending funded by the public
sector.







The Company’s aggregates shipments volume has ranged from 122 million tons to
146 million tons over the last four years, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability, albeit at historically low levels, in a cyclical near-trough environment. During 2014, the Company’s heritage aggregates shipments increased 7.5%
compared with 2013 levels. Prior to 2010, the economic recession resulted in unprecedented reductions in aggregates shipments, as evidenced by United States aggregates consumption declining by almost 40% from peak volumes in 2006. Aggregates
shipments had also suffered as states continued to balance their construction spending with the uncertainty related to long-term federal highway funding and budget shortfalls caused by decreasing tax revenues. Most state budgets began to improve in
2013 and 2014 as increased tax revenues helped states resolve or begin to resolve budget deficits.

The federal highway bill provides
annual funding for public-sector construction projects. The current federal highway bill,Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21stCentury Act, or MAP-21, provides for infrastructure spending
of approximately $40 billion per year, but the bill expired by its terms on September 30, 2014. However, as Congress continues to deliberate a successor bill, the provisions of Map-21 have been extended through May 31, 2015. Additionally,
Congress authorized a $10.8 billion General Fund transfer to the Highway Trust Fund to maintain its solvency. These measures have not completely alleviated the reluctance by some states and municipalities to commit to large scale, multi-year
infrastructure projects supported by federal funding.

During the recent extended period of uncertainty in the level of federal funding,
some states have shown a commitment to securing alternative funding sources. For example, voters in Texas passed Proposition 1 in the November 2014 elections, which authorizes annual disbursements from the state’s oil and gas production tax
collections to the State Highway Fund. Supported by state-spending programs, heritage aggregates volumes to the infrastructure market increased 6% compared with 2013.

MAP-21 also significantly expanded funding under theTransportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act, or TIFIA. TIFIA, a U.S.
Department of Transportation alternative funding mechanism, provides federal credit assistance for nationally or regionally significant surface transportation projects. The Company believes that the continued impact of TIFIA, which has the ability
to leverage up to $50 billion in financing for transportation projects of either national or regional significance, along with actions of the Company’s key states to utilize various funding alternatives to support important infrastructure jobs,
should provide an impetus for increased infrastructure spending in 2015 and beyond.

The Company’s Aggregates business covers a wide
geographic area. The Company’s five largest revenue-generating states (Texas, Colorado, North Carolina, Iowa, and Georgia) accounted for 68% of total 2014 net sales for the Aggregates business by state of destination. The Company’s
Aggregates business is accordingly affected by the economies in these regions and has been adversely affected in part by recessions and weaknesses in these economies from time to time. Recent improvements in the national economy and in some of the
states in which the Company operates have led to improvements in profitability in the Company’s Aggregates business.

The
Company’s Aggregates business is also highly seasonal, due primarily to the effect of weather conditions on construction activity within its markets. The operations of the Aggregates business that are concentrated in the northern and midwestern
United States and Canada typically experience more severe winter weather conditions than operations in the southeastern and southwestern regions of the United States. Excessive rainfall, flooding, or severe drought can also jeopardize shipments,
production, and profitability in all of the Company’s markets. Subject to these factors, the Company’s second and third quarters are typically the strongest, with the first quarter generally reflecting the weakest results. Results in any
quarter are not







necessarily indicative of the Company’s annual results. Similarly, the operations of the Aggregates business in the southeastern and Gulf Coast regions of the United States and the Bahamas
are at risk for hurricane activity, most notably in August, September, and October, and have experienced weather-related losses from time to time.

Natural aggregates sources can be found in relatively homogeneous deposits in certain areas of the United States. As a general rule, truck
shipments from an individual quarry are limited because the cost of transporting processed aggregates to customers is high in relation to the price of the product itself. As described below, the Company’s distribution system mainly uses trucks,
but also has access to a river barge and ocean vessel network where the per mile unit cost of transporting aggregates is much lower. In addition, acquisitions have enabled the Company to extend its customer base through increased access to rail
transportation. Proximity of quarry facilities to customers or to long-haul transportation corridors is an important factor in competition for aggregates businesses.

During the recent economic
recession, the Company set a priority of preserving capital while maintaining safe, environmentally-sound operations. As the Company returns to a more normalized operating environment, management expects to focus part of its capital spending program
on expanding key Southeast and Southwest operations.

The Company’s Medina Rock and Rail capital project, with a budgeted cost of
nearly $160 million, is the largest capital expansion project in its history. The project, located outside of San Antonio, Texas, consists of building a rail-connected limestone aggregates processing facility with the capability of producing in
excess of 10 million tons per year. Land acquisition was completed over several years as part of ongoing capital expenditures, and construction began in 2013. Through the end of 2014, the Company invested nearly $79 million, including $41
million in 2014. The project is expected to be completed, on time and under budget, in 2015.

The Company also acquires contiguous
property around existing quarry locations. This property can serve as buffer property or additional mineral reserve capacity, assuming the underlying geology supports economical aggregates mining. In either instance, the acquisition of additional
property around an existing quarry allows the expansion of the quarry footprint and extension of quarry life. Some locations having limited reserves may be unable to expand.







A long-term capital focus for the Company, primarily in the midwestern United States due to the
nature of its indigenous aggregates supply, is underground limestone aggregate mines, which provide a neighbor-friendly alternative to surface quarries. The Company operates 14 active underground mines, located primarily in the Mid-America Group,
and is the largest operator of underground limestone aggregate mines in the United States. Production costs are generally higher at underground mines than surface quarries since the depth of the aggregate deposits and the access to the reserves
result in higher development, explosives and depreciation costs. However, these locations often possess transportation advantages that can lead to value-added, higher average selling prices than more distant surface quarries.

The Company’s acquisitions and capital projects have expanded its ability to ship material by rail, as discussed in more detail below.
The Company has added additional capacity in a number of locations that can now accommodate larger unit train movements. These expansion projects have enhanced the Company’s long-haul distribution network. The Company’s process improvement
efforts have also improved operational effectiveness through plant automation, mobile fleet modernization, right-sizing, and other cost control improvements. Accordingly, the Company has enhanced its reach through its ability to provide
cost-effective coverage of coastal markets on the east and gulf coasts, as well as geographic areas that can be accessed economically by the Company’s expanded distribution system. This distribution network moves aggregates materials from
domestic and offshore sources, via rail and water, to markets where aggregates supply is limited.

As the Company continues to move more
aggregates by rail and water, internal freight costs are expected to reduce gross margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues). This typically occurs where the Company transports aggregates from a production location to a distribution location
by rail or water, and the customer pays a selling price that includes a freight component. Margins are negatively affected because the Company typically does not charge the customer a profit associated with the transportation component of the
selling price of the materials. Moreover, the Company’s expansion of its rail-based distribution network, coupled with the extensive use of rail service in the Southeast and West Groups, increases the Company’s dependence on and exposure
to railroad performance, including track congestion, crew availability, and power availability, and the ability to renegotiate favorable railroad shipping contracts. The waterborne distribution network, primarily located within the Southeast Group,
also increases the Company’s exposure to certain risks, including the ability to negotiate favorable shipping contracts, demurrage costs, fuel costs, ship availability, and weather disruptions. The Company has entered into long-term agreements
with shipping companies to provide ships to transport the Company’s aggregates to various coastal ports.

The Company’s
long-term shipping contracts are generally take-or-pay contracts with minimum and maximum shipping requirements. If the Company fails to ship the annual minimum tonnages under the agreement, it must still pay the shipping company the
contractually-stated minimum amount for that year. In 2014, the Company did not incur any such charges; however, a charge is possible in 2015 if shipment volumes do not meet the contractually-stated minimums.

From time to time, the Company has experienced rail transportation shortages, particularly in the Southwest and Southeast. These shortages
were caused by the downsizing in personnel and equipment by certain railroads during economic downturns. Further, in response to these issues, rail transportation providers focused on increasing the number of cars per unit train under transportation
contracts and are generally requiring customers, through the freight rate structure, to accommodate larger unit train movements. A unit train is a freight train moving large tonnages of a single bulk product between two points without intermediate
yarding and switching. Certain of the Company’s sales yards have the system capabilities to meet the unit train







requirements. Over the last few years, the Company has made capital improvements to a number of its sales yards in order to better accommodate unit train unloadings. Rail availability is seasonal
and can impact aggregates shipments depending on competing movements.

From time to time, we have also experienced rail and trucking
shortages due to competition from other products. For example, in Texas, competition with operations in the oil and gas fields for third-party trucking services constrains the availability of these services to us. If there are material changes in
the availability or cost of rail or trucking services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products at a reasonable cost, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses or increases in our costs.

The Company’s management expects the multiple transportation modes that have been developed with various rail carriers and via
deep-water ships should provide the Company with the flexibility to effectively serve customers in the southeastern and southwestern regions of the United States.

The construction aggregates industry has been consolidating, and the Company has actively participated in the consolidation of the industry.
When acquired, new locations sometimes do not satisfy the Company’s internal safety, maintenance, and pit development standards, and may require additional resources before benefits of the acquisitions are fully realized. Industry consolidation
slowed in the last several years as the number of suitable small to mid-sized acquisition targets in high-growth markets declined. During the recent period of fewer acquisition opportunities, the Company focused on investing in internal expansion
projects in high-growth markets. Management believes the number of acquisition opportunities has started to increase as the economy has begun to recover from the protracted recession. Opportunities include public and larger private, family-owned
businesses, as well as asset swaps and divestitures from companies rationalizing non-core assets and repairing financially-constrained balanced sheets. The Company’s Board of Directors and management continue to review and monitor the
Company’s strategic long-term plans, which include assessing business combinations and arrangements with other companies engaged in similar businesses, increasing market share in the Company’s core businesses, investing in internal
expansion projects in high-growth markets, and pursuing new opportunities related to the Company’s existing markets.

The Company
became more vertically integrated with an acquisition in 1998 and subsequent acquisitions, including the recently completed TXI acquisition, particularly in the West Group, pursuant to which the Company acquired asphalt, ready mixed concrete, paving
construction, trucking, and other businesses, which complement the Company’s aggregates operations. These aggregates-related downstream operations accounted for 30% of net sales of the Aggregates business in 2014. These aggregates-related
downstream operations reported within the Aggregates business segment have lower gross margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) than the Company’s aggregates product line due to highly competitive market dynamics and lower barriers to
entry, and are affected by volatile factors, including fuel costs, operating efficiencies, and weather, to an even greater extent than the Company’s aggregates operations. Liquid asphalt and cement serve as key raw materials in the production
of hot mix asphalt and ready mixed concrete, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in prices for these raw materials directly affect the Company’s operating results. During 2014, prices for liquid asphalt and cement were higher than 2013.
Liquid asphalt prices may not always follow other energy products (e.g., oil or diesel fuel) because of complexities in the refining process which converts a barrel of oil into other fuels and petrochemical products.

The Company continues to review carefully each of the acquired aggregates-related downstream operations to determine if they represent
opportunities to divest underperforming assets in an effort to redeploy capital for other opportunities. The Company also reviews other independent aggregates-related downstream operations to determine if they might present attractive acquisition
opportunities in the best interest of the Company, either as part of their own aggregates-related downstream operations or operations that might be







vertically integrated with other operations owned by the Company. Based on these assessments, in 2011 the Company completed the acquisitions described underGeneralabove, which included
aggregates-related downstream operations, including asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road paving businesses in the Denver, Colorado, and San Antonio, Texas markets. The 2014 business combination with TXI described underGeneralabove
further expanded the Company’s aggregates-related downstream operations, with the addition of TXI’s aggregates and ready mixed concrete operations. The Company now accounts for the cement operations of TXI as a separate business segment as
described below under theCement Businessheading.

Environmental and zoning regulations have made it increasingly difficult
for the aggregates industry to expand existing quarries and to develop new quarry operations. Although it cannot be predicted what policies will be adopted in the future by federal, state, and local governmental bodies regarding these matters, the
Company anticipates that future restrictions will likely make zoning and permitting more difficult, thereby potentially enhancing the value of the Company’s existing mineral reserves.

Management believes the Aggregates business’ raw materials, or aggregates reserves, are sufficient to permit production at present
operational levels for the foreseeable future. The Company does not anticipate any material difficulty in obtaining the raw materials that it uses for current production in its Aggregates business. The Company’s aggregates reserves on the
average exceed60 years of production, based on normalized levels of production. However, certain locations may be subject to more limited reserves and may not be able to expand. Moreover, as noted above, environmental and zoning regulations
will likely make it harder for the Company to expand its existing quarries or develop new quarry operations. The Company generally sells products in its Aggregates business upon receipt of orders or requests from customers. Accordingly, there is no
significant order backlog. The Company generally maintains inventories of aggregate products in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of customers.

Less than 2% of the revenues from the Aggregates business are from foreign jurisdictions, principally Canada and the Bahamas, with revenues
from customers in foreign countries totaling $13.0 million, $16.8 million, and $20.5 million, during 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.

Cement
Business

The Cement business produces Portland and specialty cements, such as masonry and oil well cements. Similar to the
Aggregates business, cement is used in infrastructure projects, nonresidential and residential construction, and the railroad, agricultural, utility and environmental industries. The Company has the leading position in the Texas cement market, with
two production facilities, one located in Midlothian, Texas, south of Dallas/Fort Worth, and the other located in Hunter, Texas, between Austin and San Antonio. The Company also has a state-of-the-art, rail-located cement plant in southern
California at Oro Grande, California, near Los Angeles, California, and operates cement grinding and packaging facilities at the Crestmore plant near Riverside, California. The cement facilities have an annual capacity of approximately
6.6 million tons. In addition to the manufacturing and packaging facilities, the Company operates five cement distribution terminals.

Texas and California accounted for 71% and 24% of the Cement business’ net sales, respectively, in 2014. The Cement business is
benefitting from continued strength in the Texas markets, where current demand exceeds local supply, a trend that is expected to continue for the near future. The Company anticipates the California markets reaching a demand/supply equilibrium during
2016. The Cement business sold cement to customers in 13 states, with Texas accounting for 71% of net sales by state of destination. Truck and rail transportation modes represent 89% and 11%, respectively, of total tons shipped. A portion of the
cement from the Cement business is used in the Company’s ready mixed concrete product line.







The limestone reserves used as a raw material for cement are located on property, owned by the
Company, adjacent to each of the cement plants. Management believes that its reserves of limestone are sufficient to permit production at the current operational levels for the foreseeable future.

The Cement business generally delivers its products upon receipt of orders or requests from customers. Accordingly, there are no significant
levels of order backlog. Inventory for products is generally maintained in sufficient quantities to meet rapid delivery requirements of customers.

Less than 2% of the revenues from the Cement business are from foreign jurisdictions, principally Mexico, with revenues from customers in
foreign countries totaling $3.8 million during 2014 for the period from the July 1, 2014 acquisition of TXI.

Magnesia Specialties Business

The Company manufactures and markets, through its Magnesia Specialties business, magnesia-based chemical products for industrial,
agricultural, and environmental applications, and dolomitic lime for use primarily in the steel industry. These chemical products have varying uses, including flame retardants, wastewater treatment, pulp and paper production, and other environmental
applications. In 2014, 66% of Magnesia Specialties’ net sales were attributable to chemical products, 33% to lime, and 1% to stone sold as construction materials. Magnesia Specialties’ net sales increased to record levels in 2014
reflecting increased pricing and solid pricing gains in key product line.

Given the high fixed costs associated with operating this
business, low capacity utilization negatively affects its results of operations. A significant portion of the costs related to the production of magnesia-based products and dolomitic lime is of a fixed or semi-fixed nature. In addition, the
production of certain magnesia chemical products and lime products requires natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke to fuel kilns. Price fluctuations of these fuels affect the profitability of this business.

In 2014, 84% of the lime produced was sold to third-party customers, while the remaining 16% was used internally as a raw material in making
the business’ chemical products. Dolomitic lime products sold to external customers are used primarily by the steel industry. Products used in the steel industry, either directly as dolomitic lime or indirectly as a component of other
industrial products, accounted for 44% of the Magnesia Specialties’ net sales in 2014, attributable primarily to the sale of dolomitic lime products. Accordingly, a portion of the profitability of the Magnesia Specialties business is dependent
on steel production capacity utilization and the related marketplace. These trends are guided by the rate of consumer consumption, the flow of offshore imports, and other economic factors. The dolomitic lime business runs most profitably at 70% or
greater steel utilization; domestic capacity utilization averaged 77% in 2014 According to Moody’s Credit Outlook, steel production in 2014 increased 13% over 2013 and the 2015 forecast is an increase of 2% over 2014. Accordingly to Platt, a
division of McGraw Hill Financial, capacity utilization for 2014 was 77% and is expected to continue at this level or slightly improve in 2015.

Management has shifted the strategic focus of the magnesia-based business to specialty chemicals that can be produced at volume levels that
support efficient operations. Accordingly, that business is not as dependent on the steel industry as is the dolomitic lime portion of the Magnesia Specialties business.

The principal raw materials used in the Magnesia Specialties business are dolomitic limestone and alkali-rich brine. Management believes that
its reserves of dolomitic limestone and brine are sufficient to permit production at the current operational levels for the foreseeable future.







After the brine is used in the production process, the Magnesia Specialties business must dispose
of the processed brine. In the past, the business did this by reinjecting the processed brine back into its underground brine reserve network around its facility in Manistee, Michigan. The business has also sold a portion of this processed brine to
third parties. In 2003, Magnesia Specialties entered into a long-term processed brine supply agreement with The Dow Chemical Company (“Dow”) pursuant to which Dow purchases processed brine from Magnesia Specialties, at market rates, for
use in Dow’s production of calcium chloride products. Magnesia Specialties also entered into a venture with Dow to construct, own, and operate a processed brine supply pipeline between the Magnesia Specialties facility in Manistee, Michigan,
and Dow’s facility in Ludington, Michigan. Construction of the pipeline was completed in 2003, and Dow began purchasing processed brine from Magnesia Specialties through the pipeline. In 2010, Dow sold the assets of Dow’s facility in
Ludington, Michigan to Occidental Chemical Corporation (“Occidental”) and assigned to Occidental its interests in the long-term processed brine supply agreement and the pipeline venture with Magnesia Specialties.

In 2001 the Magnesia Specialties business sold certain assets of its refractories business to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Minerals
Technologies Inc. In connection with the sale, the business improved its cost structure through the write down of certain assets and the repositioning of the Manistee, Michigan, operating facility to focus on the production of chemical products. The
sale of the refractories business lessened the dependence of the Magnesia Specialties business on the steel industry over time.

Magnesia
Specialties generally delivers its products upon receipt of orders or requests from customers. Accordingly, there is no significant order backlog. Inventory for products is generally maintained in sufficient quantities to meet rapid delivery
requirements of customers. A significant portion of the 275,000 ton dolomitic lime capacity from the new lime kiln completed in 2012 at Woodville, Ohio is committed under a long-term supply contract.

The Magnesia Specialties business is highly dependent on rail transportation, particularly for movement of dolomitic lime from Woodville to
Manistee and direct customer shipments of dolomitic lime and magnesia chemicals products from both Woodville and Manistee. The segment can be affected by the specific transportation and other risks and uncertainties outlined under Item IA., Risk
Factors, of this Form 10-K.

Approximately 11% of the revenues of the Magnesia Specialties business in 2014 were from foreign
jurisdictions, principally Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and the Pacific Rim, but no single foreign country accounted for 10% or more of the revenues of the business. Revenues from customers in foreign countries totaled $29.0 million, $25.7
million, and $24.2 million, in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. As a result of these foreign market sales, the financial results of the Magnesia Specialties business could be affected by foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions
in the foreign markets. To mitigate the short-term effects of currency exchange rates, the Magnesia Specialties business principally uses the United States dollar as the functional currency in foreign transactions.

Patents and Trademarks

As of
February 13, 2015, the Company owns, has the right to use, or has pending applications for approximately 54 patents pending or granted by the United States and various countries and approximately 114 trademarks related to business. The Company
believes that its rights under its existing patents, patent applications, and trademarks are of value to its operations, but no one patent or trademark or group of patents or trademarks is material to the conduct of the Company’s business as a
whole.







Customers

No material part of the business of any segment of the Company is dependent upon a single customer or upon a few customers, the loss of any one
of which would have a material adverse effect on the segment. The Company’s products are sold principally to commercial customers in private industry. Although large amounts of construction materials are used in public works projects,
relatively insignificant sales are made directly to federal, state, county, or municipal governments, or agencies thereof.

Competition

Because of the impact of transportation costs on the aggregates industry, competition in the Aggregates business tends to be limited to
producers in proximity to each of the Company’s facilities. Although all of the Company’s locations experience competition, the Company believes that it is generally a leading producer in the areas it serves. Competition is based primarily
on quarry or distribution location and price, but quality of aggregates and level of customer service are also factors.

There are over
5,600 companies in the United States that produce construction aggregates. These include active crushed stone companies and active sand and gravel companies. The largest ten producers account for approximately 35% of the total market. The
Company’s aggregates-related downstream operations are also characterized by numerous operators. A national trade association estimates there are about 5,500 ready mixed concrete plants in the United States owned by over 2,200 companies, with
about 55,000 mixer trucks delivering ready mixed concrete. Similarly, a national trade association estimates there are about 3,700 asphalt plants in the United States owned by over 800 companies. The Company, in its Aggregates business, including
its aggregates-related downstream operations, competes with a number of other large and small producers. The Company believes that its ability to transport materials by ocean vessels and rail have enhanced the Company’s ability to compete in
the aggregates industry. Some of the Company’s competitors in the aggregates industry have greater financial resources than the Company.

The Company’s Magnesia Specialties business competes with various companies in different geographic and product areas principally on the
basis of quality, price, technological advances, and technical support for its products. The Magnesia Specialties business also competes for sales to customers located outside the United States, with revenues from foreign jurisdictions accounting
for 11% of revenues for the Magnesia Specialties business in 2014, principally in Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and the Pacific Rim. Certain of the Company’s competitors in the Magnesia Specialties business have greater financial
resources than the Company.

According to the Portland Cement Association, United States cement production is widely dispersed with the
operation of 107 cement plants in 36 states. The top five companies collectively operate 49.6 percent of U.S. clinker capacity with the largest company representing 14.2 percent of all domestic clinker capacity. An estimated 76.7 percent of U.S.
clinker capacity is owned by companies headquartered outside of the United States.

The Company’s Cement business competes with
various companies in different geographic and product areas principally on the basis of proximity, quality and price for its products, but level of customer service is also a factor. The Cement business also competes with imported cement because of
the higher value of the product and the existence of major ports in some of our markets. A small percentage of the Company’s cement sales are to customers located outside the United States, with less than 2% of revenues for the Cement business
in 2014 coming from sales from California to customers in Mexico. Certain of the Company’s competitors in the Cement business have greater financial resources than the Company.







The nature of the Company’s competition varies among its product lines due to the widely
differing amounts of capital necessary to build production facilities. Crushed stone production from stone quarries or mines, or sand and gravel production by dredging, is moderately capital intensive. The Company’s major competitors in the
aggregates markets are typically large vertically integrated companies, with international operations. Ready-mixed concrete production requires relatively small amounts of capital to build a concrete batching plant and acquire delivery trucks. As a
result, in each local market the Company faces competition from numerous small producers as well as large vertically integrated companies with facilities in many markets. Construction of cement production facilities is highly capital intensive and
requires long lead times to complete engineering design, obtain regulatory permits, acquire equipment and construct a plant. Most domestic producers of cement are owned by large foreign companies operating in multiple international markets. Many of
these producers maintain the capability to import cement from foreign production facilities.

Research and Development

The Company conducts research and development activities, principally for its magnesia-based chemicals business, at its plant in Manistee,
Michigan. In general, the Company’s research and development efforts are directed to applied technological development for the use of its chemicals products. The amounts spent by the Company in each of the last two years on research and
development activities were not material.

Environmental and Governmental Regulations

The Company’s operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, health
and safety, and other regulatory matters. Certain of the Company’s operations may from time to time involve the use of substances that are classified as toxic or hazardous substances within the meaning of these laws and regulations.
Environmental operating permits are, or may be, required for certain of the Company’s operations, and such permits are subject to modification, renewal, and revocation.

The Company records an accrual for environmental remediation liabilities in the period in which it is probable that a liability has been
incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change. The accruals are not discounted to their present value or offset for potential insurance or other claims or
potential gains from future alternative uses for a site.







Many of the requirements of the environmental laws are satisfied by procedures that the Company
adopts as best business practices in the ordinary course of its operations. For example, plant equipment that is used to crush aggregates products may, as an ordinary course of operations, have an attached water spray bar that is used to clean the
stone. The water spray bar also suffices as a dust control mechanism that complies with applicable environmental laws. The Company does not break out the portion of the cost, depreciation, and other financial information relating to the water spray
bar that is only attributable to environmental purposes, as it would be derived from an arbitrary allocation methodology. The incremental portion of such operating costs that is attributable to environmental compliance rather than best operating
practices is impractical to quantify. Accordingly, the Company expenses costs in that category when incurred as operating expenses.

The
environmental accruals recorded by the Company are based on internal studies of the required remediation costs and estimates of potential costs that arise from time to time under federal, state, and/or local environmental protection laws. Many of
these laws and the regulations promulgated under them are complex, and are subject to challenges and new interpretations by regulators and the courts from time to time. In addition, new laws are adopted from time to time. It is often difficult to
accurately and fully quantify the costs to comply with new rules until it is determined the type of operations to which they will apply and the manner in which they will be implemented is more accurately defined. This process often takes years to
finalize and changes significantly from the time the rules are proposed to the time they are final. The Company typically has several appropriate alternatives available to satisfy compliance requirements, which could range from nominal costs to some
alternatives that may be satisfied in conjunction with equipment replacement or expansion that also benefits operating efficiencies or capacities and carry significantly higher costs.

Management believes that its current accrual for environmental costs is reasonable, although those amounts may increase or decrease depending
on the impact of applicable rules as they are finalized from time to time and changes in facts and circumstances. The Company believes that any additional costs for ongoing environmental compliance would not have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s obligations or financial condition.

The Company believes that its operations and facilities, both owned or leased, are in
substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations and that any noncompliance is not likely to have a material







adverse effect on the Company’s operations or financial condition. See “Legal Proceedings” under Item 3 of this Form 10-K, “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of
the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the 2014 Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K and the 2014 Annual Report, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations - Environmental Regulation and Litigation” included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and the 2014 Annual Report. However, future events, such as changes in or modified interpretations of existing laws and regulations or
enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of certain products or business activities, may give rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

In general, quarry, mining, and cement production facilities must comply with air quality, water quality, and noise regulations, zoning
and special use permitting requirements, applicable mining regulations, and federal health and safety requirements. As new quarry and mining sites are located and acquired, the Company works closely with local authorities during the zoning and
permitting processes to design new quarries and mines in such a way as to minimize disturbances. The Company frequently acquires large tracts of land so that quarry, mine, and production facilities can be situated substantial distances from
surrounding property owners. Also, in certain markets the Company’s ability to transport material by rail and ship allows it to locate its facilities further away from residential areas. The Company has established policies designed to minimize
disturbances to surrounding property owners from its operations.

As is the case with other companies in the same industry, some of the
Company’s products contain varying amounts of crystalline silica, a common mineral also known as quartz. Excessive, prolonged inhalation of very small-sized particles of crystalline silica has been associated with lung diseases, including
silicosis, and several scientific organizations and some states, such as California, have reported that crystalline silica can cause lung cancer. The Mine Safety and Health Administration and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration have
established occupational thresholds for crystalline silica exposure as respirable dust. The Company monitors occupational exposures at its facilities and implements dust control procedures and/or makes available appropriate respiratory protective
equipment to maintain the occupational exposures at or below the appropriate levels. The Company, through safety information sheets and other means, also communicates what it believes to be appropriate warnings and cautions its employees and
customers about the risks associated with excessive, prolonged inhalation of mineral dust in general and crystalline silica in particular.

As is the case with other companies in the cement industry, the Company’s cement operations produce varying quantities of cement kiln
dust (“CKD”). This production by-product consists of fine-grained, solid, highly alkaline material removed from cement kiln exhaust gas by air pollution control devices. Because much of the CKD is actually unreacted raw materials, it is
generally permissible to recycle the CKD back into the production process, and large amounts often are treated in such manner. CKD that is not returned to the production process is disposed in landfills. CKD is currently exempted from federal
hazardous waste regulations under Subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.

In 2010, the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (“USEPA”) included the lime industry as a national enforcement priority under the federal Clean Air Act (“CAA”). As part of the industry wide effort, the USEPA issued Notices of Violation/Findings of Violation
(“NOVs”) to the Company in 2010 and 2011 regarding the Company’s compliance with the CAA New Source Review (“NSR”) program at the Magnesia Specialties dolomitic lime manufacturing plant in Woodville, Ohio. The Company
has been providing information to the USEPA in response to these NOVs and has had several meetings with the USEPA. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the NSR program. The Company cannot at this time reasonably estimate
what reasonable likely penalties or upgrades to equipment might ultimately be required.







The Company believes that any costs related to any required upgrades will be spread over time and will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or its financial
condition, but can give no assurance that the ultimate resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Magnesia Specialties segment of the business.

In October 2014, the Company received a CAA Section 114 request for information regarding the Manistee, Michigan operations from the
USEPA, similar to the one initially received at the Woodville, Ohio plant. The letter seeks information regarding the Company’s compliance with the NSR program at the Magnesia Specialties manufacturing plant in Manistee, Michigan. No notices of
violation have been received by the Company relating to alleged non-compliance at the Manistee plant. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the NSR program and is currently submitting information to the USEPA for review. The
Company cannot at this time reasonably estimate the costs, if any, that may be incurred relating to this matter.

In September 2005, the
USEPA designated several entities as potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), at the Ward Transformer Superfund site located in
Raleigh, North Carolina. In April 2009, two PRPs filed separate actions in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina against more than 100 other entities, including the Company, seeking contribution from the defendants
for expenses incurred by the plaintiffs related to work performed at a portion of the site. The USEPA has not designated the Company as a PRP. The ultimate outcome of these matters will depend upon further environmental assessment and the ultimate
number of PRPs and defendants who are held liable for the costs and cannot be determined at this time. The Company believes that any liability will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of
operations.

In Congress, both the House and Senate had
considered climate change legislation, including the “cap-and-trade” approach. Cap and trade is an environmental policy tool that delivers results with a mandatory cap







on emissions while providing sources flexibility in how they comply by trading credits with other sources whose emissions are below the cap. Another approach that had been proposed was a tax on
emissions. The Company believes that climate change legislation is not a priority item in Congress in the near future and that the primary method that greenhouse gases will be regulated is through the USEPA using its rule-making authority. Various
states where the Company has operations are also considering climate change initiatives, and the Company may be subject to state regulations in addition to any federal laws and rules that are passed.

The operations of the Company’s Aggregates business are not major sources of GHG emissions. Most of the GHG emissions from aggregate
operations are tailpipe emissions from mobile sources such as heavy construction and earth-moving equipment. The manufacturing operations of the Company’s Magnesia Specialties business in Woodville, Ohio releases carbon dioxide, methane and
nitrous oxide during the production of lime. The Magnesia Specialties operation in Manistee, Michigan releases carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxides in the manufacture of magnesium oxide and hydroxide products. Both of these operations are
filing annual reports of their GHG emissions in accordance with the USEPA’s Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule.

Cement
production worldwide is estimated to comprise approximately 5% to 10% of CO2or GHG emissions, and the USEPA has indicated that CO2emitted from cement production is the second largest source of CO2emissions in the United States. The Company’s subsidiaries, Riverside Cement Company and TXI, are filing annual reports
of the GHG emissions relating to their cement operations. In addition, as it operates in California, Riverside Cement is subject to California’s existing GHG emissions trading/credit program. The Company believes that Riverside Cement has
purchased an adequate number of additional emission credits to remain under the regulated limits, and that program will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s or the Cement business’ financial condition or results of
operations.

If and when Congress passes legislation on GHGs, the Woodville and Manistee operations, as well as the Company’s cement
operations, will likely be subject to the new program. In addition, the Company believes that the USEPA may impose additional regulatory restrictions on emissions of GHGs that will impact the Company’s Woodville, Manistee, and cement
operations. The Company anticipates that any increased operating costs or taxes relating to GHG emission limitations at the Woodville, Manistee, or cement operations would be passed on to customers. The magnesium oxide products produced at the
Manistee operation compete against other products that emit a lower level of GHGs in their production. Therefore, the Manistee facility may be required to absorb additional costs due to the regulation of GHG emissions in order to remain competitive
in pricing in that market. The Company is also continuing to review the obligations of our Manistee facility’s global customer base with regards to climate change treaties and accords. The Company at this time cannot reasonably predict what the
costs of compliance will be, but does not believe it will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of the operations of either the Magnesia Specialties or Cement businesses.

In California, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, or AB32, required the California Air Resources Board (“CARB”) to
implement rules designed to achieve a statewide reduction in emissions of GHGs in California to 1990 levels by 2020. In response, CARB adopted rules that establish a market-based cap-and-trade program, which began on January 1, 2013. The rules
apply to Riverside Cement’s cement plant in Oro Grande, California. The rules establish a statewide cap on the level of GHG emissions from covered industries for each year from 2013 to 2020. The cap declines approximately 2% to 3% per
year. Individual facilities will not be assigned a specific limit on GHG emissions. Instead, a facility will be required to surrender allowances (each covering the equivalent of one ton of carbon dioxide) equal to its total GHG emissions. CARB will
allocate allowances equal to the declining cap in a manner prescribed by the rules. As part of the program, CARB will provide significant free allowances to cement plants because the sector is considered by CARB to







Various states have banded together in initiatives to develop regional strategies to address climate change. Certain western states, including
California, and Canadian provinces have formed the Western Climate Initiative, which is working to establish goals for the reduction of GHG emissions in the member states and design market-based mechanisms to help achieve these reduction goals.
California’s climate change laws and regulations are designed to coordinate with the Western Climate Initiative. Other states may join these initiatives or form additional initiatives or coalitions intended to regulate the emission of GHGs.

In 2010, the USEPA issued rules that dramatically reduced the permitted emissions of mercury, total hydrocarbons, particulate matter and
hydrochloric acid from cement plants. The compliance date for these new standards is September 2015. The Company has conducted tests to analyze the current level of compliance of its newly-acquired cement plants with the standards in the revised
rule. All plants will require the installation of continuous emissions monitoring (“CEMs”). In addition, the cement plant in Oro Grande, California will require new controls to satisfy the mercury emission standard and the hydrochloric
acid standard. The Company, through its subsidiaries, Riverside Cement and TXI, have identified, tested and ordered new control and monitoring equipment for these purposes, and believe that the cement plants meet the other emission requirements in
these rules. The Company does not believe that the costs relating to these controls and equipment will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of the operations of either the Company or the Cement business.

Employees

As of January 31,
2015, the Company has 7,193 employees, of which 5,435 are hourly employees and 1,758 are salaried employees. Included among these employees are 878 hourly employees represented by labor unions (12.2% of the Company’s employees). Of such amount,
11.8% of the Company’s Aggregates business’s hourly employees are members of a labor union, 30.8% of the Company’s Cement business’s hourly employees are represented by labor unions, and 100% of the Magnesia Specialties
segment’s hourly employees are







represented by labor unions. The Company’s principal union contracts for the Cement business cover employees at the Oro Grande, California cement plant. The Company’s principal union
contracts for the Magnesia Specialties business cover employees at the Manistee, Michigan, magnesia-based chemicals plant and the Woodville, Ohio, lime plant. The Oro Grande collective bargaining agreement expires in June 2015. The Woodville
collective bargaining agreement expires in May 2018. The Manistee collective bargaining agreement expires in August 2015. While the Company’s management does not expect significant difficulties in renewing these labor contracts, there can be no
assurance that a successor agreement will be reached at any of these locations.

Available Information

The Company maintains an Internet address atwww.martinmarietta.com. The Company makes available free of charge through its Internet web
site its Annual Report on Form10-K,Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q,Current Reports on Form8-K,and amendments to those
reports, if any, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports and any amendments are accessed via the Company’s web site through a link with the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval
(“EDGAR”) system maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) atwww.sec.gov. Accordingly, the Company’s referenced reports and any amendments are made available as soon as reasonably practicable
after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC, once EDGAR places such material in its database.

The Company has adopted aCode of Ethical Business Conductthat applies to all of its directors, officers, and employees. The
Company’s code of ethics is available on the Company’s web site atwww.martinmarietta.com. The Company intends to disclose on its Internet web site any waivers of or amendments to its code of ethics as it applies to its directors
and executive officers.

The Company has adopted a set ofCorporate Governance Guidelinesto address issues of fundamental
importance relating to the corporate governance of the Company, including director qualifications and responsibilities, responsibilities of key board committees, director compensation, and similar issues. Each of the Audit Committee, the Management
Development and Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted a written charter addressing various issues of importance relating to each committee, including the
committee’s purposes and responsibilities, an annual performance evaluation of each committee, and similar issues. TheseCorporate Governance Guidelines, and the charters of each of these committees, are available on the Company’s
web site atwww.martinmarietta.com.

The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are required to file
with the SEC each quarter and each year certifications regarding the quality of the Company’s public disclosure of its financial condition. The annual certifications are included as Exhibits to this Annual Report on Form10-K.The Company’s Chief Executive Officer is also required to certify to the New York Stock Exchange each year that he is not aware of any violation by the Company of the New York Stock Exchange corporate
governance listing standards.







