ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

Martin Marietta Materials, Inc. (the “Company”) is a leading producer of aggregates for the
construction industry, including infrastructure, agricultural, nonresidential, and residential.
The Company also has a Specialty Products segment that manufactures and markets magnesia-based
chemical products used in industrial, agricultural, and environmental applications and dolomitic
lime sold primarily to customers in the steel industry. In 2010, the Company’s Aggregates business
accounted for 89% of the Company’s total net sales, and the Company’s Specialty Products segment
accounted for 11% of the Company’s total net sales.

The Company was formed in 1993 as a North Carolina corporation to serve as successor to the
operations of the materials group of the organization that is now Lockheed Martin Corporation. An
initial public offering of a portion of the Company’s Common Stock was completed in 1994, followed
by a tax-free exchange transaction in 1996 that resulted in 100% of the Company’s Common Stock
being publicly traded.

Initially, the Company’s aggregates operations were predominantly in the Southeast, with
additional operations in the Midwest. In 1995, the Company started its geographic expansion with
the purchase of an aggregates business that included an extensive waterborne distribution system
along the East and Gulf Coasts and the Mississippi River. Smaller acquisitions that year,
including the acquisition of the Company’s granite operations on the Strait of Canso in Nova
Scotia, complemented the Company’s new coastal distribution network.

Subsequent acquisitions in 1997 and 1998 expanded the Company’s Aggregates business in the
middle of the country and added a leading producer of aggregates products in Texas, which provided
the Company with access to an extensive rail network in Texas. These two transactions positioned
the Company for numerous additional expansion acquisitions in Ohio, Indiana, and the southwestern
regions of the United States, with the Company completing 29 smaller acquisitions between 1997 and
1999, which allowed the Company to enhance and expand its presence in the aggregates marketplace.

In 1998, the Company made an initial investment in an aggregates business that would later
serve as the Company’s platform for further expansion in the southwestern and western United
States. In 2001, the Company completed the purchase of all of the remaining interests of this
business, which increased its ability to use rail as a mode of transportation.

Effective January 1, 2005, the Company formed a joint venture with Hunt Midwest Enterprises to
operate substantially all of the aggregates facilities of both companies in Kansas City and
surrounding areas. The parties contributed a total of 15 active quarry operations to the joint
venture.

In 2008, the Company entered into a swap transaction with Vulcan Materials Company (“Vulcan”),
pursuant to which it acquired six quarry locations in Georgia and Tennessee. The acquired





locations significantly expanded the Company’s presence in Georgia and Tennessee, particularly
south and west of Atlanta, Georgia. The Company also acquired a land parcel previously leased from
Vulcan at the Company’s Three Rivers Quarry near Paducah, Kentucky. In addition to a cash payment,
as part of this swap, the Company divested to Vulcan its only California quarry located in
Oroville, an idle facility north of San Antonio, Texas, and land in Henderson, North Carolina,
formerly leased to Vulcan.

In 2009, the Company acquired three quarry locations plus the remaining 49% interest in an
existing joint venture from CEMEX, Inc. The quarry operations are located in Nebraska, Wyoming,
and Utah, while the 49% interest purchased relates to a quarry in Wyoming where the Company was the
operating manager. The acquired locations enhanced the Company’s existing long-haul distribution
network and provided attractive product synergies.

In 2010, the Company acquired a deep-water port facility in Port Canaveral, Florida, which
serves the greater Orlando market, the second-largest aggregates-consuming area in Florida. The
Port Canaveral acquisition, the only developed deep-water aggregates import terminal located on
Florida’s central east coast, was complemented by the Company’s organic investment in 2010 in a new
aggregates import facility at Port Manatee, Florida.

Between 2001 and 2010, the Company disposed of or permanently shut down a number of
underperforming operations, including aggregates, asphalt, ready mixed concrete, trucking, and road
paving operations of its Aggregates business and the refractories business of its Specialty
Products segment. In some of its divestitures, the Company concurrently entered into supply
agreements to provide aggregates at market rates to certain of these divested businesses. The
Company will continue to evaluate opportunities to divest underperforming assets during 2011 in an
effort to redeploy capital for other opportunities.

Business Segment Information

The Company operates in four reportable business segments: the Mideast Group, Southeast
Group, and West Group, collectively the Aggregates business, and the Specialty Products segment.
The Specialty Products segment includes the magnesia-based chemicals and dolomitic lime businesses.
Information concerning the Company’s total revenues, net sales, gross profit, earnings from
operations, assets employed, and certain additional information attributable to each reportable
business segment for each year in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010 is included in
“Note O: Business Segments” of the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the Company’s 2010
consolidated financial statements (the “2010 Financial Statements”), which are included under Item
8 of this Form 10-K, and are part of the Company’s 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders (the “2010
Annual Report”), which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Aggregates Business

The Aggregates business mines, processes and sells granite, limestone, sand, gravel, and other
aggregate products for use in all sectors of the public infrastructure, nonresidential and
residential construction industries, as well as agriculture, railroad ballast, chemical, and other
uses. The Aggregates business also includes the operation of other construction materials
businesses. These





businesses, located primarily in the West Group, were acquired through continued
selective vertical integration by the Company, and include asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road
paving operations.

The Company is the second largest producer of aggregates for the construction industry in the
United States. In 2010, the Company’s Aggregates business shipped 130 million tons of aggregates
primarily to customers in 30 states, Canada, the Bahamas, and the Caribbean Islands, generating net
sales and earnings from operations of $1.4 billion and $166.6 million, respectively.

The Aggregates business markets its products primarily to the construction industry, with
approximately 55% of its shipments made to contractors in connection with highway and other public
infrastructure projects and the balance of its shipments made primarily to contractors in
connection with nonresidential and residential construction projects. As a result of dependence
upon the construction industry, the profitability of aggregates producers is sensitive to national,
regional, and local economic conditions, and particularly to cyclical swings in construction
spending, which is affected by fluctuations in interest rates, demographic and population shifts,
and changes in the level of infrastructure spending funded by the public sector.

The 5.4% increase in 2010 in aggregates shipments over 2009 levels represented the Company’s
first year of volume growth since 2005. Prior to 2010, the ongoing economic recession had resulted
in unprecedented declines in aggregates shipments, as evidenced by United States aggregates
consumption declining by almost 40% from peak volumes in 2006. Aggregates shipments have also
suffered as states continue to balance their construction spending with the uncertainty related to
long-term federal highway funding and budget shortfalls caused by decreasing tax revenues..

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), the federal economic stimulus
plan signed into law in February 2009, provided approximately $28.6 billion of additional funding
for highways, roads, bridges and airports through 2012. However, the lack of shovel-ready projects
has delayed the impact of ARRA on the aggregates industry. The Company expects approximately 30%
of ARRA-related jobs in the Company’s critical states will be completed in 2011. Any carryover in
2012, by law, must be completed that year. Based on its market position, the Company estimates
that it has and will continue to supply approximately 6% to 8% of aggregates required for projects
funded by ARRA.

The Company’s Aggregates business covers a wide geographic area, with aggregates, asphalt
products, and ready mixed concrete sold and shipped from a network of approximately 284 quarries,
underground mines, distribution facilities, and plants to customers in 30 states, Canada, the
Bahamas, and the Caribbean Islands. The Company’s five largest revenue-generating states (Texas,
North Carolina, Georgia, Iowa, and Louisiana) account for approximately 55% of total 2010 net sales
for the Aggregates business by state of destination. The Company’s Aggregates business is
accordingly affected by the economies in these regions and has been adversely affected in part by
recessions and
weaknesses in these economies from time to time. The economic recession nationally and in these
states has negatively impacted the Company’s Aggregates business.

The Company’s Aggregates business is also highly seasonal, due primarily to the effect of
weather conditions on construction activity within its markets. The operations of the Aggregates
business that are concentrated in the northern United States and Canada typically experience more





severe winter weather conditions than operations in the southeastern and southwestern regions of
the United States. Excessive rainfall or severe drought, however, can jeopardize shipments,
production, and profitability in all of the Company’s markets. Due to these factors, the Company’s
second and third quarters are the strongest, with the first quarter generally reflecting the
weakest results. Results in any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the Company’s annual
results. Similarly, the operations of the Aggregates business in the southeastern and Gulf Coast
regions of the United States and the Bahamas are at risk for hurricane activity and have
experienced weather-related losses in recent years.

Natural aggregates sources can be found in relatively homogeneous deposits in certain areas of
the United States. As a general rule, truck shipments from an individual quarry are limited
because the cost of transporting processed aggregates to customers is high in relation to the price
of the product itself. As described below, the Company’s distribution system mainly uses trucks,
but also has access to a river barge and ocean vessel network where the per mile unit cost of
transporting aggregates is much lower. In addition, acquisitions have enabled the Company to
extend its customer base through increased access to rail transportation. Proximity of quarry
facilities to customers or to long-haul transportation corridors is an important factor in
competition for aggregates business.

A growing percentage of the Company’s aggregates shipments are being moved by rail or water
through a distribution yard network. In 1994, 93% of the Company’s aggregates shipments were moved
by truck, the rest by rail. In contrast, in 2010, the originating mode of transportation for the
Company’s aggregates shipments was 68% by truck, 21% by rail, and 11% by water. The majority of the
rail and water movements occur in the Southeast Group and the West Group. The Company has an
extensive network of aggregate quarries and distribution centers along the Mississippi River system
throughout the central and southern United States and in the Bahamas and Canada, as well as
distribution centers along the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic coasts. In recent years the Company has
brought additional capacity on line at its Bahamas and Nova Scotia locations to transport materials
via oceangoing ships.

During the recent economic recession, the Company set a priority of preserving capital while
maintaining safe, environmentally-sound operations. As the Company returns to a more normalized
operating environment, management expects to focus a significant part of its capital growth
spending program on expanding key Southeast and Southwest operations.

In addition, the Company’s acquisitions and capital projects have expanded its ability to ship
material by rail, as discussed in more detail below. The Company has added additional capacity in a
number of locations that can now accommodate larger unit train movements. These expansion projects
have enhanced the Company’s long-haul distribution network. The Company’s process improvement
program has also improved operational effectiveness through plant automation, mobile fleet
modernization, right-sizing, and other cost control improvements. Accordingly, the Company has
enhanced its reach through its ability to provide cost-effective coverage of coastal markets on the
east and gulf coasts, as well as geographic areas that can be accessed economically by the
Company’s expanded distribution system. This distribution network moves aggregates materials from
domestic and offshore sources, via rail and water, to markets where aggregates supply is limited.

The water and rail distribution network initially resulted in the Company increasing its
market share in certain areas. However, recent consolidation in the aggregates industry has made
it more





competitive for the Company in various parts of the country. The Company believes that as
shipment volumes recover, the Company will increase its market share in those areas.

As the Company continues to move more aggregates by rail and water, embedded freight costs
have consequently reduced gross margins. This typically occurs where the Company transports
aggregates from a production location to a distribution location by rail or water, and the customer
pays a selling price that includes a freight component. Margins are negatively affected because
the Company typically does not charge the customer a profit associated with the transportation
component of the selling price of the materials. Moreover, the Company’s expansion of its
rail-based distribution network, coupled with the extensive use of rail service in the Southeast
and West Groups, increase the Company’s dependence on and exposure to railroad performance,
including track congestion, crew availability, and power availability, and the ability to
renegotiate favorable railroad shipping contracts. The waterborne distribution network, primarily
located within the Southeast Group, also increases the Company’s exposure to certain risks,
including the ability to negotiate favorable shipping contracts, demurrage costs, fuel costs, barge
or ship availability, and weather disruptions. The Company has entered into long-term agreements
with shipping companies to provide ships to transport the Company’s aggregates to various coastal
ports.

The Company’s long-term shipping contracts are generally take-or-pay contracts with minimum
and maximum shipping requirements. If the Company fails to ship the annual minimum tonnages under
the agreement, it must still pay the shipping company the contractually-stated minimum amount for
that year. In 2010, the Company incurred a $1.4 million expense due to not shipping the minimum
tonnages. Similar charges are possible in 2011 if shipment volumes do not increase.

From time to time the Company has experienced rail transportation shortages, particularly in
the Southwest and Southeast. These shortages were caused by the downsizing in personnel and
equipment by certain railroads during economic downturns. Further, in response to these issues,
rail transportation providers focused on increasing the number of cars per unit train under
transportation contracts and are generally requiring customers, through the freight rate structure,
to accommodate larger unit train movements. A unit train is a freight train moving large tonnages
of a single bulk product between two points without intermediate yarding and switching. Certain of
the Company’s sales yards have the system capabilities to meet the unit train requirements. Over
the last few years, the Company has made capital improvements to a number of its sales yards in
order to better accommodate unit train unloadings. Rail availability is seasonal and can impact
aggregates shipments depending on competing movements.

The Company’s management expects the multiple transportation modes that have been developed
with various rail carriers and via barges and deepwater ships should provide the Company with the
flexibility to effectively serve customers in the southeastern and southwestern regions of the
United States.

The construction aggregates industry has been consolidating, and the Company has actively
participated in the consolidation of the industry. When acquired, new locations sometimes do not
satisfy the Company’s internal safety, maintenance, and pit development standards, and may require
additional resources before benefits of the acquisitions are fully realized. Management expects a





slowing in the industry consolidation trend as the number of suitable small to mid-sized
acquisition targets in high-growth markets declines. During the recent period of fewer acquisition
opportunities, the Company has focused on investing in internal expansion projects in high-growth
markets. The Company’s Board of Directors and management continue to review and monitor the
Company’s strategic long-term plans, which include assessing business combinations and arrangements
with other companies engaged in similar businesses, increasing market share in the Company’s core
businesses, investing in internal expansion projects in high-growth markets, and pursuing new
opportunities related to the Company’s existing markets.

The Company became more vertically integrated with an acquisition in 1998 and subsequent
acquisitions, particularly in the West Group, pursuant to which the Company acquired asphalt, ready
mixed concrete, paving construction, trucking, and other businesses, which complement the Company’s
aggregates business. These vertically integrated operations accounted for approximately 7% of
revenues of the Aggregates business in 2010. These operations have lower gross margins than
aggregates products, and are affected by volatile factors, including fuel costs, operating
efficiencies, and weather, to an even greater extent than the Company’s aggregates operations. The
road paving and trucking businesses were acquired as supplemental operations that were part of
larger acquisitions. As such, they do not represent core businesses of the Company. The results
of these operations are currently insignificant to the Company as a whole. Over the last few years
the Company has disposed of some of these operations. The Company continues to review carefully
the acquired vertically integrated operations to determine if they represent opportunities to
divest underperforming assets in an effort to redeploy capital for other opportunities.

Environmental and zoning regulations have made it increasingly difficult for the aggregates
industry to expand existing quarries and to develop new quarry operations. Although it cannot be
predicted what policies will be adopted in the future by federal, state, and local governmental
bodies regarding these matters, the Company anticipates that future restrictions will likely make
zoning and permitting more difficult, thereby potentially enhancing the value of the Company’s
existing mineral reserves.

Management believes the Aggregates business’ raw materials, or aggregates reserves, are
sufficient to permit production at present operational levels for the foreseeable future. The
Company does not anticipate any material difficulty in obtaining the raw materials that it uses for
current production in its Aggregates business. The Company’s aggregates reserves on the average
exceed 60 years of production, based on normalized levels of production. However, certain
locations may be subject to more limited reserves and may not be able to expand. Moreover, as
noted above,
environmental and zoning regulations will likely make it harder for the Company to expand its
existing quarries or develop new quarry operations. The Company generally sells products in its
Aggregates business upon receipt of orders or requests from customers. Accordingly, there is no
significant order backlog. The Company generally maintains inventories of aggregate products in
sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of customers.

Less than 2% of the revenues from the Aggregates business are from foreign jurisdictions,
principally Canada and the Bahamas, with revenues from customers in foreign countries totaling
$17.0 million, $19.8 million, and $24.8 million during 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.





Specialty Products Business

The Company manufactures and markets, through its Specialty Products business, magnesia-based
chemical products for industrial, agricultural, and environmental applications, and dolomitic lime
for use primarily in the steel industry. These chemical products have varying uses, including
flame retardants, wastewater treatment, pulp and paper production, and other environmental
applications. In 2010, 68% of Specialty Products’ net sales were attributable to chemical
products, 31% to lime, and 1% to stone. Overall net sales in the Specialty Products business
increased in 2010 reflecting growth in both magnesia chemicals sales and dolomitic lime shipments
to the steel industry.

Given the high fixed costs associated with operating this business, low capacity utilization
negatively affects its results of operations. A significant portion of the costs related to the
production of magnesia-based products and dolomitic lime is of a fixed or semi-fixed nature. In
addition, the production of certain magnesia chemical products and lime products requires natural
gas, coal, and petroleum coke to fuel kilns. Price fluctuations of these fuels affect the
profitability of this business.

In 2010, approximately 80% of the lime produced was sold to third-party customers, while the
remaining 20% was used internally as a raw material in making the business’ chemical products.
Dolomitic lime products sold to external customers are used primarily by the steel industry.
Products used in the steel industry accounted for approximately 46% of the Specialty Products’ net
sales in 2010, attributable primarily to the sale of dolomitic lime products. Accordingly, a
portion of the profitability of the Specialty Products business is dependent on steel production
capacity utilization and the related marketplace. These trends are guided by the rate of consumer
consumption, the flow of offshore imports, and other economic factors. In 2010, steelmaking rates
in the United States improved 37% over 2009, driven by inventory restocking, improved automotive
manufacturing, and a slowly improving general economy. However, production rates for steel were
approximately 70% of domestic steelmaking capacity, making 2010, along with 2009, some of the
lowest steel production rates in decades. The Company anticipates small to moderate growth in
domestic steelmaking in 2011, with the growth attributable to continued gains in consumer
confidence.

Management has shifted the strategic focus of the magnesia-based business to specialty
chemicals that can be produced at volume levels that support efficient operations. Accordingly,
that business is not as dependent on the steel industry as is the dolomitic lime portion of the
Specialty Products business.

The principal raw materials used in the Specialty Products business are dolomitic limestone
and alkali-rich brine. Management believes that its reserves of dolomitic limestone and brine are
sufficient to permit production at the current operational levels for the foreseeable future.

After the brine is used in the production process, the Specialty Products business must
dispose of the processed brine. In the past, the business did this by reinjecting the processed
brine back into its underground brine reserve network around its facility in Manistee, Michigan.
The business has also sold a portion of this processed brine to third parties. In 2003, Specialty
Products entered into a long-term processed brine supply agreement with The Dow Chemical Company
(“Dow”) pursuant to which Dow purchases processed brine from Specialty Products, at market rates,
for use in Dow’s production of calcium chloride products. Specialty Products also entered into a
venture with Dow to construct,





own, and operate a processed brine supply pipeline between the
Specialty Products facility in Manistee, Michigan, and Dow’s facility in Ludington, Michigan.
Construction of the pipeline was completed in 2003, and Dow began purchasing processed brine from
Specialty Products through the pipeline. In 2010, Dow sold the assets of Dow’s facility in
Ludington, Michigan to Occidental Chemical Corporation (“Occidental”) and assigned to Occidental
its interests in the long-term processed brine supply agreement and the pipeline venture with
Specialty Products.

Specialty Products generally delivers its products upon receipt of orders or requests from
customers. Accordingly, there is no significant order backlog. Inventory for products is
generally maintained in sufficient quantities to meet rapid delivery requirements of customers.

Approximately 9% of the revenues of the Specialty Products business in 2010 were from foreign
jurisdictions, principally Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and the Pacific Rim, so no single
foreign country accounted for 10% or more of the revenues of the business. Revenues from customers
in foreign countries totaled $17.1 million, $16.2 million, and $24.3 million, in 2010, 2009, and
2008, respectively. As a result of these foreign market sales, the financial results of the
Specialty Products business could be affected by foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic
conditions in the foreign markets. To mitigate the short-term effects of currency exchange rates,
the Specialty Products business principally uses the U.S. dollar as the functional currency in
foreign transactions.

Patents and Trademarks

As of February 25, 2011, the Company owns, has the right to use, or has pending applications
for approximately 109 patents pending or granted by the United States and various countries and
approximately 107 trademarks related to business. The Company believes that its rights under its
existing patents, patent applications, and trademarks are of value to its operations, but no one
patent or trademark or group of patents or trademarks is material to the conduct of the Company’s
business as a whole.

Customers

No material part of the business of any segment of the Company is dependent upon a single
customer or upon a few customers, the loss of any one of which would have a material adverse effect
on the segment. The Company’s products are sold principally to commercial customers in private
industry. Although large amounts of construction materials are used in public works projects,
relatively insignificant sales are made directly to federal, state, county, or municipal
governments, or agencies thereof.

Competition

Because of the impact of transportation costs on the aggregates industry, competition in the
Aggregates business tends to be limited to producers in proximity to each of the Company’s
facilities. Although all of the Company’s locations experience competition, the Company believes
that it is generally a leading producer in the areas it serves. Competition is based primarily on
quarry or distribution location and price, but quality of aggregates and level of customer service
are also factors.





There are over 5,400 companies in the United States that produce construction aggregates.
These include active crushed stone companies and active sand and gravel companies. The largest ten
producers account for approximately 35% of the total market. The Company, in its Aggregates
business, competes with a number of other large and small producers. The Company believes that its
ability to transport materials by ocean vessels, river barges, and rail have enhanced the Company’s
ability to compete in the aggregates business. Some of the Company’s competitors in the aggregates
industry have greater financial resources than the Company.

The Company’s Specialty Products business competes with various companies in different
geographic and product areas principally on the basis of quality, price, technological advances,
and technical support for its products. The Specialty Products business also competes for sales to
customers located outside the United States, with revenues from foreign jurisdictions accounting
for approximately 9% of revenues for the Specialty Products business in 2010, principally in
Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and the Pacific Rim. Certain of the Company’s competitors
in the Specialty Products business have greater financial resources than the Company.

Research and Development

The Company conducts research and development activities principally for its magnesia-based
chemicals business, at its plant in Manistee, Michigan. In general, the Company’s research and
development efforts in 2010 were directed to applied technological development for the use of its
chemicals products. The Company spent approximately $0.2 million in 2010, $0.4 million in 2009,
and $0.6 million in 2008 on research and development activities.

Environmental and Governmental Regulations

The Company’s operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, and local laws and
regulations relating to the environment, health and safety, and other regulatory matters. Certain
of the Company’s operations may from time to time involve the use of substances that are classified
as toxic or hazardous substances within the meaning of these laws and regulations. Environmental
operating permits are, or may be, required for certain of the Company’s operations, and such
permits are subject to modification, renewal, and revocation.

The Company records an accrual for environmental remediation liabilities in the period in
which it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably
estimated. Such accruals are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change.
The accruals are not discounted to their present value or offset for potential insurance or other
claims or potential gains from future alternative uses for a site.

The Company regularly monitors and reviews its operations, procedures, and policies for
compliance with existing laws and regulations, changes in interpretations of existing laws and
enforcement policies, new laws that are adopted, and new laws that the Company anticipates will be
adopted that could affect its operations. The Company has a full time staff of environmental
engineers and managers that perform these responsibilities. The direct costs of ongoing
environmental compliance were approximately $9.1 million in 2010 and approximately $8.7 million in
2009 and are related to the Company’s environmental staff, ongoing monitoring costs for various
matters (including





those matters disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K), and asset
retirement costs. Capitalized costs related to environmental control facilities were approximately
$3.0 million in 2010 and are expected to be approximately $3 million in 2011 and 2012. The
Company’s capital expenditures for environmental matters were not material to its results of
operations or financial condition in 2010 and 2009. However, our expenditures for environmental
matters generally have increased over time and are likely to increase in the future. Despite our
compliance efforts, risk of environmental liability is inherent in the operation of the Company’s
businesses, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses, and there can be no
assurance that environmental liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on the Company in
the future.

Many of the requirements of the environmental laws are satisfied by procedures that the
Company adopts as best business practices in the ordinary course of its operations. For example,
plant equipment that is used to crush aggregates products may, as an ordinary course of operations,
have an attached water spray bar that is used to clean the stone. The water spray bar also
suffices as a dust control mechanism that complies with applicable environmental laws. The Company
does not break out the portion of the cost, depreciation, and other financial information relating
to the water spray bar that is only attributable to environmental purposes, as it would be derived
from an arbitrary allocation methodology. The incremental portion of such operating costs that is
attributable to environmental compliance rather than best operating practices is impractical to
quantify. Accordingly, the Company expenses costs in that category when incurred as operating
expenses.

The environmental accruals recorded by the Company are based on internal studies of the
required remediation costs and estimates of potential costs that arise from time to time under
federal, state, and/or local environmental protection laws. Many of these laws and the regulations
promulgated under them are complex, and are subject to challenges and new interpretations by
regulators and the courts from time to time. In addition, new laws are adopted from time to time.
It is often difficult to accurately and fully quantify the costs to comply with new rules until it
is determined the type of operations to which they will apply and the manner in which they will be
implemented is more accurately defined. This process often takes years to finalize and changes
significantly from the time the rules are proposed to the time they are final. The Company
typically has several appropriate alternatives available to satisfy compliance requirements, which
could range from nominal costs to
some alternatives that may be satisfied in conjunction with equipment replacement or expansion
that also benefits operating efficiencies or capacities and carry significantly higher costs.

Management believes that its current accrual for environmental costs is reasonable, although
those amounts may increase or decrease depending on the impact of applicable rules as they are
finalized from time to time and changes in facts and circumstances. The Company believes that any
additional costs for ongoing environmental compliance would not have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s obligations or financial condition.

Future reclamation costs are estimated using statutory reclamation requirements and
management’s experience and knowledge in the industry, and are discounted to their present value
using a credit-adjusted, risk-free rate of interest. The future reclamation costs are not offset
by potential recoveries. For additional information regarding compliance with legal requirements,
see “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the 2010
Financial Statements and the 2010 Annual Report. The Company is generally required by state or





local laws or pursuant to the terms of an applicable lease to reclaim quarry sites after use. The
Company performs activities on an ongoing basis that may reduce the ultimate reclamation
obligation. These activities are performed as an integral part of the normal quarrying process.
For example, the perimeter and interior walls of an open pit quarry are sloped and benched as they
are developed to prevent erosion and provide stabilization. This sloping and benching meets dual
objectives — safety regulations required by the Mine Safety and Health Administration for ongoing
operations and final reclamation requirements. Therefore, these types of activities are included
in normal operating costs and are not a part of the asset retirement obligation. Historically, the
Company has not incurred substantial reclamation costs in connection with the closing of quarries.
Reclaimed quarry sites owned by the Company are available for sale, typically for commercial
development or use as reservoirs.

The Company believes that its operations and facilities, both owned or leased, are in
substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations and that any noncompliance is not
likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or financial condition. See
“Legal Proceedings” under Item 3 of this Form 10-K, “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the
“Notes to Financial Statements” of the 2010 Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Form
10-K and the 2010 Annual Report, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations — Environmental Regulation and Litigation” included under Item 7 of this
Form 10-K and the 2010 Annual Report. However, future events, such as changes in or modified
interpretations of existing laws and regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation
or evaluation of the potential health hazards of certain products or business activities, may give
rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on the
Company.

In general, quarry and mining facilities must comply with air quality, water quality, and
noise regulations, zoning and special use permitting requirements, applicable mining regulations,
and federal health and safety requirements. As new quarry and mining sites are located and
acquired, the Company works closely with local authorities during the zoning and permitting
processes to design new quarries and mines in such a way as to minimize disturbances. The Company
frequently acquires large tracts of land so that quarry, mine, and production facilities can be
situated substantial distances from surrounding property owners. Also, in certain markets the
Company’s ability to transport
material by rail and ship allows it to locate its facilities further away from residential areas.
The Company has established policies designed to minimize disturbances to surrounding property
owners from its operations.

As is the case with other companies in the same industry, some of the Company’s products
contain varying amounts of crystalline silica, a common mineral also known as quartz. Excessive,
prolonged inhalation of very small-sized particles of crystalline silica has been associated with
lung diseases, including silicosis, and several scientific organizations and some states, such as
California, have reported that crystalline silica can cause lung cancer. The Mine Safety and
Health Administration and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration have established
occupational thresholds for crystalline silica exposure as respirable dust. The Company monitors
occupational exposures at its facilities and implements dust control procedures and/or makes
available appropriate respiratory protective equipment to maintain the occupational exposures at or
below the appropriate levels. The Company, through safety information sheets and other means, also
communicates what it believes to be appropriate warnings and cautions its employees and customers
about the risks associated with excessive, prolonged inhalation of mineral dust in general and
crystalline silica in particular.









below the cap. Another approach that had been proposed was a tax on emissions. However, the
Company believes that climate change legislation is not a priority item in Congress in the near
future and that the primary method that greenhouse gases will be regulated is through the USEPA
using its rule-making authority. Various states where the Company has operations are also
considering climate change initiatives, and the Company may be subject to state regulations in
addition to any federal laws and rules that are passed.

Employees

As of January 31, 2011, the Company has approximately 4,471 employees, of which 3,284 are
hourly employees and 1,187 are salaried employees. Included among these employees are 625 hourly
employees represented by labor unions (14.0% of the Company’s employees). Of such amount, 12.9% of
the Company’s Aggregates business’s hourly employees are members of a labor union, while 100% of
the Specialty Products segment’s hourly employees are represented by labor unions. The Company’s
principal union contracts cover employees of the Specialty Products business at the Manistee,
Michigan, magnesia-based chemicals plant and the Woodville, Ohio, lime plant. The Manistee
collective bargaining agreement expires in August 2011. The Woodville collective bargaining
agreement expires in June 2014. While the Company’s management does not expect significant
difficulties in renewing these labor contracts, there can be no assurance that a successor
agreement will be reached at the Manistee location this year or at the Woodville location in 2014.





Available Information

The
Company maintains an Internet address atwww.martinmarietta.com. The Company makes
available free of charge through its Internet web site its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, if any, filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports and any
amendments are accessed via the Company’s web site through a link with the Electronic Data
Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (“EDGAR”) system maintained by the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the “SEC”) atwww.sec.gov. Accordingly, the Company’s referenced reports and any
amendments are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically
files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC, once EDGAR places such material in its
database.

The Company has adopted aCode of Ethics and Standards of Conductthat applies to all of its
directors, officers, and employees. The Company’s code of ethics is available on the Company’s web
site atwww.martinmarietta.com. The Company intends to disclose on its Internet web site any
waivers of or amendments to its code of ethics as it applies to its directors and executive
officers.

The Company has adopted a set ofCorporate Governance Guidelinesto address issues of
fundamental importance relating to the corporate governance of the Company, including director
qualifications and responsibilities, responsibilities of key board committees, director
compensation, and similar issues. Each of the Audit Committee, the Management Development and
Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Company has adopted a written charter addressing various issues of importance
relating to each committee, including the committee’s purposes and responsibilities, an annual
performance evaluation of each committee, and similar issues. TheseCorporate Governance
Guidelines, and the charters of each of these committees, are available on the Company’s web site
atwww.martinmarietta.com.

The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are required to file with
the SEC each quarter and each year certifications regarding the quality of the Company’s public
disclosure of its financial condition. The annual certifications are included as Exhibits to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer is also required to certify to
the New York Stock Exchange each year that he is not aware of any violation by the Company of the
New York Stock Exchange corporate governance listing standards.



