ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Martin Marietta Materials, Inc. (the “Company”) is the nation’s second largest producer of aggregates
products (crushed stone, sand, and gravel) for the construction industry, including infrastructure, nonresidential, residential, railroad ballast, agricultural, and chemical grade stone used in environmental applications. The Company’s
Aggregates business also includes its vertically-integrated operations, i.e., asphalt products, ready mixed concrete, and road paving construction services. The Company also has a Specialty Products segment that manufactures and markets
magnesia-based chemical products used in industrial, agricultural, and environmental applications, and dolomitic lime sold primarily to customers in the steel industry. In 2013, the Company’s Aggregates business accounted for 88% of the
Company’s consolidated net sales, and the Company’s Specialty Products segment accounted for 12% of the Company’s consolidated net sales. Within the Company’s Aggregates business, the aggregates products line accounted for 69% of
consolidated 2013 net sales, while the vertically-integrated operations accounted for 19% of consolidated 2013 net sales.

The
Company was formed in 1993 as a North Carolina corporation to serve as successor to the operations of the materials group of the organization that is now Lockheed Martin Corporation. An initial public offering of a portion of the Company’s
Common Stock was completed in 1994, followed by a tax-free exchange transaction in 1996 that resulted in 100% of the Company’s Common Stock being publicly traded.

Initially, the Company’s aggregates operations were predominantly in the Southeast, with additional operations in the Midwest. In 1995, the Company started its geographic expansion with the purchase
of an aggregates business that included an extensive waterborne distribution system along the East and Gulf Coasts and the Mississippi River and provided the Company a shipping position from the Bahamas. Smaller acquisitions that year, including the
acquisition of the Company’s granite operations on the Strait of Canso in Nova Scotia, complemented the Company’s new coastal distribution network.

Subsequent acquisitions in 1997 and 1998 expanded the Company’s Aggregates business in the Ohio River Valley and added a leading producer of aggregates products in Texas, which provided the Company
with access to an extensive rail network in Texas. Additionally, in 1998, the Company made an initial investment in an aggregates business that would later serve as the Company’s platform for further expansion in the southwestern and western
United States. In 2001, the Company completed the purchase of all of the remaining interests of this business. These acquisitions increased the Company’s ability to use rail as a mode of transportation.

These transactions positioned the Company for numerous additional expansion acquisitions, with the Company completing over 70 smaller
acquisitions from the time of its initial public offering until the present, which allowed the Company to enhance and expand its presence in the aggregates marketplace.







Effective January 1, 2005, the Company formed a joint venture with Hunt Midwest
Enterprises to operate substantially all of the aggregates facilities of both companies in Kansas City and surrounding areas. The parties contributed a total of 15 active quarry operations to the joint venture.

In 2008, the Company entered into a swap transaction with Vulcan Materials Company (“Vulcan”), pursuant to which it acquired
six quarry locations in Georgia and Tennessee. The acquired locations significantly expanded the Company’s presence, particularly south and west of Atlanta, Georgia. The Company also acquired a land parcel previously leased from Vulcan at the
Company’s Three Rivers Quarry near Paducah, Kentucky. In addition to a cash payment, as part of this swap, the Company divested to Vulcan its only California quarry located in Oroville, an idle facility north of San Antonio, Texas, and land in
Henderson, North Carolina, formerly leased to Vulcan.

In 2009, the Company acquired three quarry locations plus the remaining
49% interest in an existing joint venture from CEMEX, Inc. The quarry operations are located in Nebraska, Wyoming, and Utah, while the 49% interest purchased related to a quarry in Wyoming where the Company was the operating manager. The acquired
locations enhanced the Company’s existing long-haul distribution network and provided attractive product synergies.

In
2010, the Company acquired a deep-water port facility in Port Canaveral, Florida, which serves the greater Orlando market, the second-largest aggregates-consuming area in Florida. The Port Canaveral acquisition, the only developed deep-water
aggregates import terminal located on Florida’s central east coast, was complemented by the Company’s organic investment in 2010 in a new aggregates import facility at Port Manatee, Florida.

In 2011, the Company acquired three aggregates-related businesses. First, it acquired the assets of an aggregates, asphalt, and ready
mixed concrete business located in western San Antonio, Texas. Next, it exchanged certain assets with Lafarge North America Inc. (“Lafarge”), pursuant to which it received aggregate quarry sites, ready mixed concrete and asphalt plants,
and a road paving business in and around the metropolitan Denver, Colorado, region, in exchange for which Lafarge received properties consisting of quarries, an asphalt plant, and distribution yards operated by the Company along the Mississippi
River (referred to herein as the Company’s “River District Operations”) and a cash payment. Finally, the Company acquired a privately-held ready mixed concrete business in the Denver, Colorado area.

In 2013, the Company acquired three aggregates quarries in the greater Atlanta, Georgia area. The transaction provided over
800 million tons of permitted aggregate reserves and enhanced the Company’s existing long-term position in this market.

Between 2001 and 2011, the Company disposed of or idled a number of underperforming operations, including aggregates, asphalt, ready mixed concrete, trucking, and road paving operations of its Aggregates
business and the refractories business of its Specialty Products segment. In some of its divestitures, the Company concurrently entered into supply agreements to provide aggregates at market rates to certain of these divested businesses. The Company
will continue to evaluate opportunities to divest underperforming assets during 2014 in an effort to redeploy capital for other opportunities.







Recent Developments

On January 27, 2014, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “merger agreement”) with Texas Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“TXI”), and Project
Holdings, Inc., a North Carolina corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the merger agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into TXI with TXI surviving the
merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (herein referred to as the “proposed business combination with TXI”). Pursuant to the merger agreement, promptly after the effective time of the merger, each outstanding share of TXI
common stock will be exchanged for 0.70 of a share of the Company’s common stock. The proposed business combination with TXI was unanimously approved by the Boards of Directors of both the Company and TXI.

The closing of the proposed business combination with TXI is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among others, the
adoption of the merger agreement by TXI’s stockholders, approval by the Company’s shareholders of the issuance of the Company’s common stock in connection with the merger and expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period
under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended. In addition, the merger agreement contains certain termination rights for both the Company and TXI and further provides for the payment of certain termination fees under
certain specified circumstances. The Company currently anticipates the closing of the proposed business combination with TXI to be in the second quarter of 2014. However, the Company cannot assure the closing of the proposed business combination
with TXI will occur by any particular date, if at all.

Certain of the risks and uncertainties relating to the Company’s
proposed business combination with TXI are summarized under Item IA, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K. In addition, in connection with the proposed business combination with TXI, the Company and TXI intend to file relevant materials with the SEC,
including a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a joint proxy statement of the Company and TXI and that will also constitute a prospectus of the Company. For additional information regarding the proposed business combination with
TXI and the risks and uncertainties associated with it, please see the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (as may be amended from time to time) and the other relevant material that will
be filed with the SEC when they become available.

Business Segment Information

Effective January 1, 2013, the Company reorganized the operations and management reporting structure of its Aggregates business,
resulting in a change to its reportable business segments. The Company now conducts its Aggregates business through three reportable segments: the Mid-America Group, Southeast Group, and West Group. The Company also has the Specialty Products
segment, which includes its magnesia-based chemicals and dolomitic lime businesses. Information concerning the Company’s total revenues, net sales, gross profit, earnings from operations, assets employed, and certain additional information
attributable to each reportable business segment for each year in the three-year period ended December 31, 2013 is included in “Note O: Business Segments” of the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the Company’s 2013
consolidated financial statements (the “2013 Financial Statements”), which are included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and are part of the Company’s 2013 Annual Report to Shareholders (the “2013 Annual Report”), which
information is incorporated herein by reference.







Aggregates Business

The Aggregates business mines, processes and sells granite, limestone, sand, gravel, and other aggregate products for use in all sectors of the public infrastructure, nonresidential and residential
construction industries, as well as agriculture, railroad ballast, chemical, and other uses. The Aggregates business also includes the operation of other construction materials businesses. These businesses, located in the West Group, were acquired
through continued selective vertical integration by the Company, and include asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road paving operations in Arkansas, Colorado, Texas, and Wyoming.

The Company is the second largest producer of aggregates for the construction industry in the United States. In 2013, the Company’s
Aggregates business shipped and delivered aggregates, asphalt products, and ready mixed concrete from a network of nearly 300 quarries, underground mines, distribution facilities, and plants to customers in 30 states, Canada, the Bahamas, and the
Caribbean Islands, generating net sales and earnings from operations of $1.7 billion and $177.6 million, respectively.

The
Aggregates business markets its products primarily to the construction industry, with approximately 45% of its aggregates shipments made to contractors in connection with highway and other public infrastructure projects and the balance of its
shipments made primarily to contractors in connection with nonresidential and residential construction projects. As a result of dependence upon the construction industry, the profitability of aggregates producers is sensitive to national, regional,
and local economic conditions, and particularly to cyclical swings in construction spending, which is affected by fluctuations in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in the level of infrastructure spending funded by the
public sector.

The Company’s aggregates shipments volume has ranged from 125 million tons to 130 million tons
over the last four years, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability, albeit at historically low levels, in a cyclical trough environment. During 2013, the Company’s overall aggregates shipments were relatively flat compared with 2012
levels. Prior to 2010, the economic recession resulted in unprecedented reductions in aggregates shipments, as evidenced by United States aggregates consumption declining by almost 40% from peak volumes in 2006. Aggregates shipments have also
suffered as states continue to balance their construction spending with the uncertainty related to long-term federal highway funding and budget shortfalls caused by decreasing tax revenues. Most state budgets began to improve in 2013 as increased
tax revenues helped states resolve budget deficits.

The federal highway bill provides annual funding for
public-sector construction projects. The current federal highway bill,Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21stCentury Act, or MAP-21, provides for infrastructure spending of approximately $40 billion per year, but the bill expires on September 30, 2014. Recently, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman announced plans to advance
a new, multi-year surface-transportation bill in April 2014. Furthermore, the Federal government shutdown in October 2013 and the general uncertainty over governmental spending policy have reduced confidence in long-term funding beyond this
September 2014 expiration of MAP-21. As a result, some states and municipalities are reluctant to commit to large scale, multi-year infrastructure projects.







MAP-21 also significantly expanded funding under theTransportation Infrastructure
Finance and Innovation Act, or TIFIA. TIFIA, a U.S. Department of Transportation alternative funding mechanism, provides federal credit assistance for nationally or regionally significant surface transportation projects. Under MAP-21, TIFIA
funding increases to $1.0 billion in fiscal 2014. The Company believes that TIFIA could provide a substantial boost for state department of transportation construction programs well above what states have currently budgeted. Several of the
Company’s key states have applied for TIFIA awards, including Texas, North Carolina, and Florida. On February 6, 2014, Texas received its first TIFIA award under MAP-21, the first award approved in the Company’s key geographic markets.

The Company’s Aggregates business covers a wide geographic area. The Company’s five largest revenue-generating
states (Texas, North Carolina, Colorado, Iowa, and Georgia) account for 59% of total 2013 net sales for the Aggregates business by state of destination. The Company’s Aggregates business is accordingly affected by the economies in these regions
and has been adversely affected in part by recessions and weaknesses in these economies from time to time. Recent improvements in the national economy and in some of the states in which the Company operates has led to improvements in profitability
in the Company’s Aggregates business.

Natural aggregates sources can be found in relatively
homogeneous deposits in certain areas of the United States. As a general rule, truck shipments from an individual quarry are limited because the cost of transporting processed aggregates to customers is high in relation to the price of the product
itself. As described below, the Company’s distribution system mainly uses trucks, but also has access to a river barge and ocean vessel network where the per mile unit cost of transporting aggregates is much lower. In addition, acquisitions
have enabled the Company to extend its customer base through increased access to rail transportation. Proximity of quarry facilities to customers or to long-haul transportation corridors is an important factor in competition for aggregates
businesses.







During the recent economic recession, the Company set a priority of preserving capital while maintaining safe, environmentally-sound operations. As the Company returns to a more normalized operating
environment, management expects to focus part of its capital spending program on expanding key Southeast and Southwest operations. In addition to capital projects for the Aggregates business, in 2011, the Company initiated construction of a $53
million dolomitic lime kiln at its Specialty Products location in Woodville, Ohio. This project was completed in 2012, adding 275,000 additional tons of capacity per year.

In addition, the Company’s acquisitions and capital projects have expanded its ability to ship material by rail, as discussed in more detail below. The Company has added additional capacity in a
number of locations that can now accommodate larger unit train movements. These expansion projects have enhanced the Company’s long-haul distribution network. The Company’s process improvement efforts have also improved operational
effectiveness through plant automation, mobile fleet modernization, right-sizing, and other cost control improvements. Accordingly, the Company has enhanced its reach through its ability to provide cost-effective coverage of coastal markets on the
east and gulf coasts, as well as geographic areas that can be accessed economically by the Company’s expanded distribution system. This distribution network moves aggregates materials from domestic and offshore sources, via rail and water, to
markets where aggregates supply is limited.

As the Company continues to move more aggregates by rail and water, internal
freight costs are expected to reduce gross margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues). This typically occurs where the Company transports aggregates from a production location to a distribution location by rail or water, and the customer pays
a selling price that includes a freight component. Margins are negatively affected because the Company typically does not charge the customer a profit associated with the transportation component of the selling price of the materials. Moreover, the
Company’s expansion of its rail-based distribution network, coupled with the extensive use of rail service in the







Southeast and West Groups, increases the Company’s dependence on and exposure to railroad performance,
including track congestion, crew availability, and power availability, and the ability to renegotiate favorable railroad shipping contracts. The waterborne distribution network, primarily located within the Southeast Group, also increases the
Company’s exposure to certain risks, including the ability to negotiate favorable shipping contracts, demurrage costs, fuel costs, ship availability, and weather disruptions. The Company has entered into long-term agreements with shipping
companies to provide ships to transport the Company’s aggregates to various coastal ports.

The Company’s long-term
shipping contracts are generally take-or-pay contracts with minimum and maximum shipping requirements. If the Company fails to ship the annual minimum tonnages under the agreement, it must still pay the shipping company the contractually-stated
minimum amount for that year. In 2013, the Company did not incur any such charges; however, a charge is possible in 2014 if shipment volumes do not meet the contractually-stated minimums.

From time to time, the Company has experienced rail transportation shortages, particularly in the Southwest and Southeast. These
shortages were caused by the downsizing in personnel and equipment by certain railroads during economic downturns. Further, in response to these issues, rail transportation providers focused on increasing the number of cars per unit train under
transportation contracts and are generally requiring customers, through the freight rate structure, to accommodate larger unit train movements. A unit train is a freight train moving large tonnages of a single bulk product between two points without
intermediate yarding and switching. Certain of the Company’s sales yards have the system capabilities to meet the unit train requirements. Over the last few years, the Company has made capital improvements to a number of its sales yards in
order to better accommodate unit train unloadings. Rail availability is seasonal and can impact aggregates shipments depending on competing movements.

From time to time, we have also experienced rail and trucking shortages due to competition from other products. For example, in Texas, competition with operations in the oil and gas fields for third-party
trucking services constrains the availability of these services to us. If there are material changes in the availability or cost of rail or trucking services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products at a
reasonable cost, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses or increases in our costs.

The
Company’s management expects the multiple transportation modes that have been developed with various rail carriers and via deep-water ships should provide the Company with the flexibility to effectively serve customers in the southeastern and
southwestern regions of the United States.

The construction aggregates industry has been consolidating, and the Company has
actively participated in the consolidation of the industry. When acquired, new locations sometimes do not satisfy the Company’s internal safety, maintenance, and pit development standards, and may require additional resources before benefits of
the acquisitions are fully realized. Industry consolidation has slowed in the last several years as the number of suitable small to mid-sized acquisition targets in high-growth markets declines. During the recent period of fewer acquisition
opportunities, the Company has focused on investing in internal expansion projects in high-growth markets. Management anticipates the number of acquisition opportunities will increase as the economy recovers from the







protracted recession. Opportunities include public and larger private, family-owned businesses, as well as
asset swaps and divestitures from companies rationalizing non-core assets and repairing financially-constrained balanced sheets. The Company’s Board of Directors and management continue to review and monitor the Company’s strategic
long-term plans, which include assessing business combinations and arrangements with other companies engaged in similar businesses, increasing market share in the Company’s core businesses, investing in internal expansion projects in
high-growth markets, and pursuing new opportunities related to the Company’s existing markets.

The Company became more
vertically integrated with an acquisition in 1998 and subsequent acquisitions, particularly in the West Group, pursuant to which the Company acquired asphalt, ready mixed concrete, paving construction, trucking, and other businesses, which
complement the Company’s aggregates operations. These vertically-integrated operations accounted for 22% of net sales of the Aggregates business in 2013. These operations have lower gross margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) than
the Company’s aggregates product line due to highly competitive market dynamics and minimal barriers to entry, and are affected by volatile factors, including fuel costs, operating efficiencies, and weather, to an even greater extent than the
Company’s aggregates operations. Liquid asphalt and cement serve as key raw materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready mixed concrete, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in prices for these raw materials directly affect the
Company’s operating results. During 2013, prices for liquid asphalt and cement were lower than 2012.

The Company
continues to review carefully each of the acquired vertically-integrated operations to determine if they represent opportunities to divest underperforming assets in an effort to redeploy capital for other opportunities. The Company also reviews
other independent vertically-integrated operations to determine if they might present attractive acquisition opportunities in the best interest of the Company, either as part of their own vertically-integrated operations or operations that might be
vertically integrated with other operations owned by the Company. Based on these assessments, in 2011 the Company completed the acquisitions described underGeneralabove, which included vertically-integrated operations, including asphalt,
ready mixed concrete, and road paving businesses in the Denver, Colorado, and San Antonio, Texas markets. The proposed business combination with TXI described under “Recent Developments”above is expected to further
expand the Company’s vertically-integrated operations, with the addition of TXI’s cement and ready mixed concrete operations, along with its aggregates operations.

Environmental and zoning regulations have made it increasingly difficult for the aggregates industry to expand existing quarries and to develop new quarry operations. Although it cannot be predicted what
policies will be adopted in the future by federal, state, and local governmental bodies regarding these matters, the Company anticipates that future restrictions will likely make zoning and permitting more difficult, thereby potentially enhancing
the value of the Company’s existing mineral reserves.

Management believes the Aggregates business’ raw materials,
or aggregates reserves, are sufficient to permit production at present operational levels for the foreseeable future. The Company does not anticipate any material difficulty in obtaining the raw materials that it uses for current production in its
Aggregates business. The Company’s aggregates reserves on the average exceed 60 years of production, based on normalized levels of production. However, certain locations may be







subject to more limited reserves and may not be able to expand. Moreover, as noted above, environmental and
zoning regulations will likely make it harder for the Company to expand its existing quarries or develop new quarry operations. The Company generally sells products in its Aggregates business upon receipt of orders or requests from customers.
Accordingly, there is no significant order backlog. The Company generally maintains inventories of aggregate products in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of customers.

Less than 2% of the revenues from the Aggregates business are from foreign jurisdictions, principally Canada and the Bahamas, with
revenues from customers in foreign countries totaling $16.8 million, $20.5 million, and $19.5 million, during 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.

Specialty Products Business

The Company manufactures and markets,
through its Specialty Products business, magnesia-based chemical products for industrial, agricultural, and environmental applications, and dolomitic lime for use primarily in the steel industry. These chemical products have varying uses, including
flame retardants, wastewater treatment, pulp and paper production, and other environmental applications. In 2013, 64% of Specialty Products’ net sales were attributable to chemical products, 35% to lime, and 1% to stone sold as construction
materials. Specialty Products’ net sales increased to record levels in 2013 reflecting the Woodville, Ohio dolomitic lime kiln expansion, marketing initiatives in the chemicals business, and solid pricing gains in key product lines.

Given the high fixed costs associated with operating this business, low capacity utilization negatively affects its results of
operations. A significant portion of the costs related to the production of magnesia-based products and dolomitic lime is of a fixed or semi-fixed nature. In addition, the production of certain magnesia chemical products and lime products requires
natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke to fuel kilns. Price fluctuations of these fuels affect the profitability of this business.

In 2013, 81% of the lime produced was sold to third-party customers, while the remaining 19% was used internally as a raw material in making the business’ chemical products. Dolomitic lime products
sold to external customers are used primarily by the steel industry. Products used in the steel industry, either directly as dolomitic lime or indirectly as a component of other industrial products, accounted for 48% of the Specialty Products’
net sales in 2013, attributable primarily to the sale of dolomitic lime products. Accordingly, a portion of the profitability of the Specialty Products business is dependent on steel production capacity utilization and the related marketplace. These
trends are guided by the rate of consumer consumption, the flow of offshore imports, and other economic factors. The dolomitic lime business runs most profitably at 70% or greater steel utilization; domestic capacity utilization averaged 77% in
2013. According to Moody’s Credit Outlook, steel production in 2014 is forecast to increase modestly over 2013 levels and average capacity utilization is expected to be between 75% and 80%.

Management has shifted the strategic focus of the magnesia-based business to specialty chemicals that can be produced at volume levels
that support efficient operations. Accordingly, that business is not as dependent on the steel industry as is the dolomitic lime portion of the Specialty Products business.







The principal raw materials used in the Specialty Products business are dolomitic limestone
and alkali-rich brine. Management believes that its reserves of dolomitic limestone and brine are sufficient to permit production at the current operational levels for the foreseeable future.

After the brine is used in the production process, the Specialty Products business must dispose of the processed brine. In the past, the
business did this by reinjecting the processed brine back into its underground brine reserve network around its facility in Manistee, Michigan. The business has also sold a portion of this processed brine to third parties. In 2003, Specialty
Products entered into a long-term processed brine supply agreement with The Dow Chemical Company (“Dow”) pursuant to which Dow purchases processed brine from Specialty Products, at market rates, for use in Dow’s production of calcium
chloride products. Specialty Products also entered into a venture with Dow to construct, own, and operate a processed brine supply pipeline between the Specialty Products facility in Manistee, Michigan, and Dow’s facility in Ludington,
Michigan. Construction of the pipeline was completed in 2003, and Dow began purchasing processed brine from Specialty Products through the pipeline. In 2010, Dow sold the assets of Dow’s facility in Ludington, Michigan to Occidental Chemical
Corporation (“Occidental”) and assigned to Occidental its interests in the long-term processed brine supply agreement and the pipeline venture with Specialty Products.

In 2001 the Specialty Products business sold certain assets of its refractories business to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Minerals
Technologies Inc. In connection with the sale, the business improved its cost structure through the write down of certain assets and the repositioning of the Manistee, Michigan, operating facility to focus on the production of chemical products. The
sale of the refractories business lessened the dependence of the Specialty Products business on the steel industry over time.

Specialty Products generally delivers its products upon receipt of orders or requests from customers. Accordingly, there is no
significant order backlog. Inventory for products is generally maintained in sufficient quantities to meet rapid delivery requirements of customers.

Approximately 11% of the revenues of the Specialty Products business in 2013 were from foreign jurisdictions, principally Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and the Pacific Rim, but no single foreign
country accounted for 10% or more of the revenues of the business. Revenues from customers in foreign countries totaled $25.7 million, $24.2 million, and $24.0 million, in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. As a result of these foreign market
sales, the financial results of the Specialty Products business could be affected by foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets. To mitigate the short-term effects of currency exchange rates, the Specialty
Products business principally uses the U.S. dollar as the functional currency in foreign transactions.

In 2012, the Company
completed construction of a new dolomitic lime kiln for its Specialty Products business at Woodville, Ohio. The new dolomitic lime capacity is committed under a long-term contract and adds 275,000 tons of capacity and $22 million to $25 million of
annual net sales to the Specialty Products segment at comparable current margins.







Patents and Trademarks

As of February 14, 2014, the Company owns, has the right to use, or has pending applications for approximately 37 patents pending or
granted by the United States and various countries and approximately 77 trademarks related to business. The Company believes that its rights under its existing patents, patent applications, and trademarks are of value to its operations, but no one
patent or trademark or group of patents or trademarks is material to the conduct of the Company’s business as a whole.

Customers

No material part of the business of any segment of the Company is dependent upon a single customer or upon a few
customers, the loss of any one of which would have a material adverse effect on the segment. The Company’s products are sold principally to commercial customers in private industry. Although large amounts of construction materials are used in
public works projects, relatively insignificant sales are made directly to federal, state, county, or municipal governments, or agencies thereof.

Competition

Because of the impact of transportation costs on the
aggregates industry, competition in the Aggregates business tends to be limited to producers in proximity to each of the Company’s facilities. Although all of the Company’s locations experience competition, the Company believes that it is
generally a leading producer in the areas it serves. Competition is based primarily on quarry or distribution location and price, but quality of aggregates and level of customer service are also factors.

There are over 5,600 companies in the United States that produce construction aggregates. These include active crushed stone companies
and active sand and gravel companies. The largest ten producers account for approximately 35% of the total market. The Company’s vertically-integrated operations are also characterized by numerous operators. A national trade association
estimates there are about 5,500 ready mixed concrete plants in the United States owned by over 2,200 companies, with about 55,000 mixer trucks delivering ready mixed concrete. Similarly, a national trade association estimates there are about 3,500
asphalt plants in the United States owned by over 800 companies. The Company, in its Aggregates business, including its vertically-integrated operations, competes with a number of other large and small producers. The Company believes that its
ability to transport materials by ocean vessels and rail have enhanced the Company’s ability to compete in the aggregates industry. Some of the Company’s competitors in the aggregates industry have greater financial resources than the
Company.

The Company’s Specialty Products business competes with various companies in different geographic and product
areas principally on the basis of quality, price, technological advances, and technical support for its products. The Specialty Products business also competes for sales to customers located outside the United States, with revenues from foreign
jurisdictions accounting for 11% of revenues for the Specialty Products business in 2013, principally in Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and the Pacific Rim. Certain of the Company’s competitors in the Specialty Products business have
greater financial resources than the Company.







Research and Development

The Company conducts research and development activities, principally for its magnesia-based chemicals business, at its plant in Manistee,
Michigan. In general, the Company’s research and development efforts are directed to applied technological development for the use of its chemicals products. The amounts spent by the Company in each of the last two years on research and
development activities were not material.

Environmental and Governmental Regulations

The Company’s operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the environment,
health and safety, and other regulatory matters. Certain of the Company’s operations may from time to time involve the use of substances that are classified as toxic or hazardous substances within the meaning of these laws and regulations.
Environmental operating permits are, or may be, required for certain of the Company’s operations, and such permits are subject to modification, renewal, and revocation.

The Company records an accrual for environmental remediation liabilities in the period in which it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals
are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change. The accruals are not discounted to their present value or offset for potential insurance or other claims or potential gains from future alternative uses for a site.

Many of the requirements of the environmental laws are satisfied by procedures that the Company adopts as best business practices in the ordinary course of its operations. For example, plant equipment
that is used to crush aggregates products may, as an ordinary course of operations, have an attached water spray bar that is used to clean the stone. The water spray bar also suffices as a dust control mechanism that complies with applicable
environmental laws. The Company does not break







out the portion of the cost, depreciation, and other financial information relating to the water spray bar
that is only attributable to environmental purposes, as it would be derived from an arbitrary allocation methodology. The incremental portion of such operating costs that is attributable to environmental compliance rather than best operating
practices is impractical to quantify. Accordingly, the Company expenses costs in that category when incurred as operating expenses.

The environmental accruals recorded by the Company are based on internal studies of the required remediation costs and estimates of potential costs that arise from time to time under federal, state,
and/or local environmental protection laws. Many of these laws and the regulations promulgated under them are complex, and are subject to challenges and new interpretations by regulators and the courts from time to time. In addition, new laws are
adopted from time to time. It is often difficult to accurately and fully quantify the costs to comply with new rules until it is determined the type of operations to which they will apply and the manner in which they will be implemented is more
accurately defined. This process often takes years to finalize and changes significantly from the time the rules are proposed to the time they are final. The Company typically has several appropriate alternatives available to satisfy compliance
requirements, which could range from nominal costs to some alternatives that may be satisfied in conjunction with equipment replacement or expansion that also benefits operating efficiencies or capacities and carry significantly higher costs.

Management believes that its current accrual for environmental costs is reasonable, although those amounts may increase or
decrease depending on the impact of applicable rules as they are finalized from time to time and changes in facts and circumstances. The Company believes that any additional costs for ongoing environmental compliance would not have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s obligations or financial condition.

The Company believes that its
operations and facilities, both owned or leased, are in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations and that any noncompliance is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or financial condition.
See “Legal Proceedings” under Item 3 of this Form 10-K, “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to Financial







Statements” of the 2013 Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K and the 2013
Annual Report, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Environmental Regulation and Litigation” included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and the 2013 Annual Report.
However, future events, such as changes in or modified interpretations of existing laws and regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of certain products or business activities, may
give rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

In general,
quarry and mining facilities must comply with air quality, water quality, and noise regulations, zoning and special use permitting requirements, applicable mining regulations, and federal health and safety requirements. As new quarry and mining
sites are located and acquired, the Company works closely with local authorities during the zoning and permitting processes to design new quarries and mines in such a way as to minimize disturbances. The Company frequently acquires large tracts of
land so that quarry, mine, and production facilities can be situated substantial distances from surrounding property owners. Also, in certain markets the Company’s ability to transport material by rail and ship allows it to locate its
facilities further away from residential areas. The Company has established policies designed to minimize disturbances to surrounding property owners from its operations.

As is the case with other companies in the same industry, some of the Company’s products contain varying amounts of crystalline silica, a common mineral also known as quartz. Excessive, prolonged
inhalation of very small-sized particles of crystalline silica has been associated with lung diseases, including silicosis, and several scientific organizations and some states, such as California, have reported that crystalline silica can cause
lung cancer. The Mine Safety and Health Administration and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration have established occupational thresholds for crystalline silica exposure as respirable dust. The Company monitors occupational exposures at
its facilities and implements dust control procedures and/or makes available appropriate respiratory protective equipment to maintain the occupational exposures at or below the appropriate levels. The Company, through safety information sheets and
other means, also communicates what it believes to be appropriate warnings and cautions its employees and customers about the risks associated with excessive, prolonged inhalation of mineral dust in general and crystalline silica in particular.

In 2010, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) included the lime industry as a national
enforcement priority under the federal Clean Air Act (“CAA”). As part of the industry wide effort, the USEPA issued Notices of Violation/Findings of Violation (“NOVs”) to the Company in 2010 and 2011 regarding the Company’s
compliance with the CAA New Source Review (“NSR”) program at the Specialty Products dolomitic lime manufacturing plant in Woodville, Ohio. The Company has been providing information to the USEPA in response to these NOVs and has had
several meetings with the USEPA. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the NSR program. The Company cannot at this time reasonably estimate what reasonable likely penalties or upgrades to equipment might ultimately be
required. The Company believes that any costs related to any required upgrades will be spread over time and will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or its financial condition, but can give no assurance that the
ultimate resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Specialty Products segment of the business.







In September 2005, the USEPA designated several entities as potentially responsible parties
(“PRPs”) under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), at the Ward Transformer Superfund site located in Raleigh, North Carolina. In April 2009, two PRPs filed separate
actions in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina against more than 100 other entities, including the Company, seeking contribution from the defendants for expenses incurred by the plaintiffs related to work performed at
a portion of the site. The USEPA has not designated the Company as a PRP. The ultimate outcome of these matters will depend upon further environmental assessment and the ultimate number of PRPs and defendants who are held liable for the costs and
cannot be determined at this time. The Company believes that any liability will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.

The operations of the Company’s Aggregates business are not major sources of GHG emissions. Most
of the GHG emissions from aggregate operations are tailpipe emissions from mobile sources such as heavy construction and earth-moving equipment. The manufacturing operations of the Company’s Specialty Products business in Woodville, Ohio
releases carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide during the production of lime. The Specialty Products operation in Manistee, Michigan releases carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxides in the manufacture of magnesium oxide and hydroxide
products. Both of these operations are filing annual reports of their GHG emissions in accordance with the USEPA’s Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule. If and when Congress passes legislation on GHGs, the Woodville and Manistee operations
will likely be subject to the new program. The Company believes that the USEPA may impose additional regulatory restrictions on emissions of GHGs that will impact the Company’s Woodville and Manistee operations. The







Company anticipates that any increased operating costs or taxes relating to GHG emission limitations at the
Woodville operation or for magnesium hydroxide produced at the Manistee operation would be passed on to its customers. The magnesium oxide products produced at the Manistee operation compete against other products that emit a lower level of GHGs in
their production. Therefore, the Manistee facility may be required to absorb additional costs due to the regulation of GHG emissions in order to remain competitive in pricing in that market. The Company is also analyzing the obligations of our
Manistee facility’s global customer base with regards to climate change treaties and accords. The Company at this time cannot reasonably predict what the costs of compliance will be but does not believe it will have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition or results of the operations of the Specialty Products business.

Employees

As of January 31, 2014, the Company has 5,036 employees, of which 3,749 are hourly employees and 1,287 are salaried employees.
Included among these employees are 737 hourly employees represented by labor unions (14.6% of the Company’s employees). Of such amount, 16.3% of the Company’s Aggregates business’s hourly employees are members of a labor union, while
100% of the Specialty Products segment’s hourly employees are represented by labor unions. The Company’s principal union contracts cover employees of the Specialty Products business at the Manistee, Michigan, magnesia-based chemicals plant
and the Woodville, Ohio, lime plant. The Woodville collective bargaining agreement expires in June 2014. The Manistee collective bargaining agreement expires in August 2015. While the Company’s management does not expect significant
difficulties in renewing these labor contracts, there can be no assurance that a successor agreement will be reached at either location.

Available Information

The Company maintains an Internet address atwww.martinmarietta.com. The Company makes available free of charge through its Internet web site its Annual Report on Form10-K,Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q,Current Reports on Form8-K,and amendments to those reports, if any, filed or furnished pursuant
to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports and any amendments are accessed via the Company’s web site through a link with the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (“EDGAR”) system maintained by the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) atwww.sec.gov. Accordingly, the Company’s referenced reports and any amendments are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such
material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC, once EDGAR places such material in its database.

The Company has adopted aCode of Ethics and Standards of Conductthat applies to all of its directors, officers, and employees. The Company’s code of ethics is available on the Company’s web site atwww.martinmarietta.com. The Company intends to
disclose on its Internet web site any waivers of or amendments to its code of ethics as it applies to its directors and executive officers.

The Company has adopted a set ofCorporate Governance Guidelinesto address issues of fundamental importance relating to the corporate governance of the Company, including director qualifications
and responsibilities, responsibilities of key board committees, director compensation, and similar issues. Each of the Audit Committee, the Management Development and Compensation







Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted a written charter addressing various issues of importance relating to each
committee, including the committee’s purposes and responsibilities, an annual performance evaluation of each committee, and similar issues. TheseCorporate Governance Guidelines, and the charters of each of these committees, are
available on the Company’s web site atwww.martinmarietta.com.

The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer are required to file with the SEC each quarter and each year certifications regarding the quality of the Company’s public disclosure of its financial condition. The annual certifications are included as Exhibits to this
Annual Report on Form10-K.The Company’s Chief Executive Officer is also required to certify to the New York Stock Exchange each year that he is not aware of any violation by the Company of the New York
Stock Exchange corporate governance listing standards.



