ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Martin Marietta Materials, Inc. (the “Company”) is the nation’s second largest producer of aggregates
products (crushed stone, sand, and gravel) for the construction industry, including infrastructure, nonresidential, residential, railroad ballast, agricultural, and chemical grade stone used in environmental applications. The Company’s
aggregates business also includes asphalt products, ready mixed concrete, and road paving operations. The Company also has a Specialty Products segment that manufactures and markets magnesia-based chemical products used in industrial, agricultural,
and environmental applications, and dolomitic lime sold primarily to customers in the steel industry. In 2012, the Company’s Aggregates business accounted for 89% of the Company’s total net sales, and the Company’s Specialty Products
segment accounted for 11% of the Company’s total net sales.

The Company was formed in 1993 as a North Carolina
corporation to serve as successor to the operations of the materials group of the organization that is now Lockheed Martin Corporation. An initial public offering of a portion of the Company’s Common Stock was completed in 1994, followed by a
tax-free exchange transaction in 1996 that resulted in 100% of the Company’s Common Stock being publicly traded.

Initially, the Company’s aggregates operations were predominantly in the Southeast, with additional operations in the Midwest. In
1995, the Company started its geographic expansion with the purchase of an aggregates business that included an extensive waterborne distribution system along the East and Gulf Coasts and the Mississippi River. Smaller acquisitions that year,
including the acquisition of the Company’s granite operations on the Strait of Canso in Nova Scotia, complemented the Company’s new coastal distribution network.

Subsequent acquisitions in 1997 and 1998 expanded the Company’s Aggregates business in the middle of the country and added a leading producer of aggregates products in Texas, which provided the
Company with access to an extensive rail network in Texas. These two transactions positioned the Company for numerous additional expansion acquisitions in Ohio, Indiana, and the southwestern regions of the United States, with the Company completing
29 smaller acquisitions between 1997 and 1999, which allowed the Company to enhance and expand its presence in the aggregates marketplace.

In 1998, the Company made an initial investment in an aggregates business that would later serve as the Company’s platform for further expansion in the southwestern and western United States. In
2001, the Company completed the purchase of all of the remaining interests of this business, which increased its ability to use rail as a mode of transportation.

Effective January 1, 2005, the Company formed a joint venture with Hunt Midwest Enterprises to operate substantially all of the aggregates facilities of both companies in Kansas City and surrounding
areas. The parties contributed a total of 15 active quarry operations to the joint venture.







In 2008, the Company entered into a swap transaction with Vulcan Materials Company
(“Vulcan”), pursuant to which it acquired six quarry locations in Georgia and Tennessee. The acquired locations significantly expanded the Company’s presence in Georgia and Tennessee, particularly south and west of Atlanta, Georgia.
The Company also acquired a land parcel previously leased from Vulcan at the Company’s Three Rivers Quarry near Paducah, Kentucky. In addition to a cash payment, as part of this swap, the Company divested to Vulcan its only California quarry
located in Oroville, an idle facility north of San Antonio, Texas, and land in Henderson, North Carolina, formerly leased to Vulcan.

In 2009, the Company acquired three quarry locations plus the remaining 49% interest in an existing joint venture from CEMEX, Inc. The quarry operations are located in Nebraska, Wyoming, and Utah, while
the 49% interest purchased relates to a quarry in Wyoming where the Company was the operating manager. The acquired locations enhanced the Company’s existing long-haul distribution network and provided attractive product synergies.

In 2010, the Company acquired a deep-water port facility in Port Canaveral, Florida, which serves the greater Orlando market, the
second-largest aggregates-consuming area in Florida. The Port Canaveral acquisition, the only developed deep-water aggregates import terminal located on Florida’s central east coast, was complemented by the Company’s organic investment in
2010 in a new aggregates import facility at Port Manatee, Florida.

In 2011, the Company acquired three aggregates-related
businesses. First, it acquired the assets of an aggregates, asphalt, and ready mixed concrete business located in western San Antonio, Texas. Next, it exchanged certain assets with Lafarge North America Inc. (“Lafarge”), pursuant to which
it received aggregate quarry sites, ready mixed concrete and asphalt plants, and a road paving business in and around the metropolitan Denver, Colorado, region, in exchange for which Lafarge received properties consisting of quarries, an asphalt
plant, and distribution yards operated by the Company along the Mississippi River (referred to herein as the Company’s “River District Operations”) and a cash payment. Finally, the Company acquired a privately-held ready mixed
concrete business in the Denver, Colorado area.

Between 2001 and 2011, the Company disposed of or idled a number of
underperforming operations, including aggregates, asphalt, ready mixed concrete, trucking, and road paving operations of its Aggregates business and the refractories business of its Specialty Products segment. In some of its divestitures, the
Company concurrently entered into supply agreements to provide aggregates at market rates to certain of these divested businesses. The Company will continue to evaluate opportunities to divest underperforming assets during 2013 in an effort to
redeploy capital for other opportunities.

Business Segment Information

In 2012, the Company operated in four reportable business segments: the Mideast Group, Southeast Group, and West Group, collectively the
Aggregates business, and the Specialty Products segment. The Specialty Products segment includes the magnesia-based chemicals and dolomitic lime businesses. Information concerning the Company’s total revenues, net sales, gross profit, earnings







from operations, assets employed, and certain additional information attributable to each reportable business segment for each year in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012 is
included in “Note O: Business Segments” of the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the Company’s 2012 consolidated financial statements (the “2012 Financial Statements”), which are included under Item 8 of this
Form 10-K, and are part of the Company’s 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders (the “2012 Annual Report”), which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Aggregates Business

The Aggregates business mines, processes and
sells granite, limestone, sand, gravel, and other aggregate products for use in all sectors of the public infrastructure, nonresidential and residential construction industries, as well as agriculture, railroad ballast, chemical, and other uses. The
Aggregates business also includes the operation of other construction materials businesses. These businesses, located in the West Group, were acquired through continued selective vertical integration by the Company, and include asphalt, ready mixed
concrete, and road paving operations in Arkansas, Colorado, and Texas.

The Company is the second largest producer of
aggregates for the construction industry in the United States. In 2012, the Company’s Aggregates business shipped and delivered aggregates, asphalt products, and ready mixed concrete from a network of approximately 300 quarries, underground
mines, distribution facilities, and plants to customers in 33 states, Canada, the Bahamas, and the Caribbean Islands, generating net sales and earnings from operations of $1.6 billion and $143.5 million, respectively.

The Aggregates business markets its products primarily to the construction industry, with approximately 51% of its heritage aggregates
shipments made to contractors in connection with highway and other public infrastructure projects and the balance of its shipments made primarily to contractors in connection with nonresidential and residential construction projects. As a result of
dependence upon the construction industry, the profitability of aggregates producers is sensitive to national, regional, and local economic conditions, and particularly to cyclical swings in construction spending, which is affected by fluctuations
in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in the level of infrastructure spending funded by the public sector.

The Company’s aggregates shipments volume has ranged from 125 million tons to 130 million tons over the last three years, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability, albeit at low
historical levels, in a cyclical trough environment. During 2012, the Company experienced some volume recovery in certain of its markets as overall aggregates shipments increased 2.6% from 2011 levels. The Company’s heritage aggregates
shipments increased 2.9% in 2012 compared with 2011. Heritage aggregates shipments exclude tonnage from acquisitions that were not included in prior-year operations for a full year and exclude divestitures. Prior to 2010, the economic recession
resulted in unprecedented reductions in aggregates shipments, as evidenced by United States aggregates consumption declining by almost 40% from peak volumes in 2006. Aggregates shipments have also suffered as states continue to balance their
construction spending with the uncertainty related to long-term federal highway funding and budget shortfalls caused by decreasing tax revenues.







The federal highway bill provides annual funding for public-sector
construction projects. On July 6, 2012, the President signed into law the new federal highway bill,Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21stCentury Act, or MAP-21, effective October 1, 2012.
MAP-21, along with the actions of the Company’s key states to utilize various funding alternatives to support important infrastructure jobs, should provide an impetus for increased infrastructure spending in 2013 and beyond. MAP-21 maintains
highway expenditures at current levels, approximately $40 billion per year through September 30, 2014, with modest increases to reflect projected inflation.

MAP-21 also significantly expands funding under theTransportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act, or TIFIA. TIFIA, a U.S. Department of Transportation alternative funding mechanism,
provides federal credit assistance for nationally or regionally significant surface transportation projects. Under MAP-21, TIFIA funding increases from $122 million per year to $750 million for fiscal 2013 and $1.0 billion in fiscal 2014. The
Company believes that TIFIA could provide a substantial boost for state department of transportation construction programs well above what states have currently budgeted. Additionally, TIFIA incremental construction dollars exceed the total stimulus
dollars awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation under the prior federal highway bill, which expired on December 31, 2012.

The Company’s Aggregates business covers a wide geographic area. The Company’s five largest revenue-generating states (Texas, North Carolina, Iowa, Colorado, and Georgia) account for 57% of
total 2012 net sales for the Aggregates business by state of destination. The Company’s Aggregates business is accordingly affected by the economies in these regions and has been adversely affected in part by recessions and weaknesses in these
economies from time to time. Recent improvements in the national economy and in some of the states in which the Company operates has led to improvements in the Company’s Aggregates business.







Natural aggregates sources can be found in relatively homogeneous deposits in certain areas
of the United States. As a general rule, truck shipments from an individual quarry are limited because the cost of transporting processed aggregates to customers is high in relation to the price of the product itself. As described below, the
Company’s distribution system mainly uses trucks, but also has access to a river barge and ocean vessel network where the per mile unit cost of transporting aggregates is much lower. In addition, acquisitions have enabled the Company to extend
its customer base through increased access to rail transportation. Proximity of quarry facilities to customers or to long-haul transportation corridors is an important factor in competition for aggregates business.

A growing percentage of the Company’s aggregates shipments are being moved by rail or water through a distribution yard network. In
1994, 93% of the Company’s aggregates shipments were moved by truck, the rest by rail. In contrast, in 2012, the originating mode of transportation for the Company’s aggregates shipments was 75% by truck, 19% by rail, and 6% by water.
Although the Company divested its River District Operations in 2011 as part of the asset exchange with Lafarge, the development of water and rail distribution yards continues to be a key component of the Company’s strategic growth plan. While
the River District Operations were being serviced as part of the Company’s barge long-haul distribution network, those divested operations were not in high-growth states. The majority of the rail and water movements occur in the Southeast Group
and the West Group, areas which generally lack a long-term indigenous supply of coarse aggregates but exhibit above-average growth characteristics driven by long-term population trends. The Company has an extensive network of aggregate quarries and
distribution centers throughout the southern United States and in the Bahamas and Canada, as well as distribution centers along the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic coasts.

During the recent economic recession, the Company set a priority of preserving capital while maintaining safe, environmentally-sound operations. As the Company returns to a more normalized operating
environment, management expects to focus a significant part of its capital growth spending program on expanding key Southeast and Southwest operations. In 2010, the Company acquired a deep-water port operation in Port Canaveral, Florida that serves
the greater Orlando market. In 2011, the Company opened an aggregates sales yard near Tampa, Florida, adding to its rail-distribution network and serving the Tampa and Lakeland, Florida, markets. In addition to capital projects for the Aggregates
business, in 2011, the Company initiated construction of a $53 million dolomitic lime kiln at its Specialty Products location in Woodville, Ohio. This project was completed in 2012, adding 275,000 additional tons of capacity per year.

In addition, the Company’s acquisitions and capital projects have expanded its ability to ship material by rail, as discussed in
more detail below. The Company has added additional capacity in a number of locations that can now accommodate larger unit train movements. These expansion projects have enhanced the Company’s long-haul distribution network. The Company’s
process improvement program has also improved operational effectiveness through plant automation, mobile fleet modernization, right-sizing, and other cost control improvements. Accordingly, the Company has enhanced its reach through its ability to
provide cost-effective coverage of coastal markets on the east and gulf coasts, as well as geographic areas that can be accessed economically by the Company’s expanded distribution system. This distribution network moves aggregates materials
from domestic and offshore sources, via rail and water, to markets where aggregates supply is limited.







The water and rail distribution network initially resulted in the Company increasing its
market share in certain areas. However, recent consolidation in the aggregates industry has made it more competitive for the Company in various parts of the country. The Company believes that as shipment volumes recover, the Company will increase
its market share in those areas.

As the Company continues to move more aggregates by rail and water, internal freight costs
are expected to reduce gross margins. This typically occurs where the Company transports aggregates from a production location to a distribution location by rail or water, and the customer pays a selling price that includes a freight component.
Margins are negatively affected because the Company typically does not charge the customer a profit associated with the transportation component of the selling price of the materials. Moreover, the Company’s expansion of its rail-based
distribution network, coupled with the extensive use of rail service in the Southeast and West Groups, increase the Company’s dependence on and exposure to railroad performance, including track congestion, crew availability, and power
availability, and the ability to renegotiate favorable railroad shipping contracts. The waterborne distribution network, primarily located within the Southeast Group, also increases the Company’s exposure to certain risks, including the ability
to negotiate favorable shipping contracts, demurrage costs, fuel costs, ship availability, and weather disruptions. The Company has entered into long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport the Company’s aggregates
to various coastal ports.

The Company’s long-term shipping contracts are generally take-or-pay contracts with minimum
and maximum shipping requirements. If the Company fails to ship the annual minimum tonnages under the agreement, it must still pay the shipping company the contractually-stated minimum amount for that year. In 2012, the Company incurred a $2.4
million expense due to not shipping the minimum tonnages. Similar charges are possible in 2013 if shipment volumes do not increase.

From time to time, the Company has experienced rail transportation shortages, particularly in the Southwest and Southeast. These shortages were caused by the downsizing in personnel and equipment by
certain railroads during economic downturns. Further, in response to these issues, rail transportation providers focused on increasing the number of cars per unit train under transportation contracts and are generally requiring customers, through
the freight rate structure, to accommodate larger unit train movements. A unit train is a freight train moving large tonnages of a single bulk product between two points without intermediate yarding and switching. Certain of the Company’s sales
yards have the system capabilities to meet the unit train requirements. Over the last few years, the Company has made capital improvements to a number of its sales yards in order to better accommodate unit train unloadings. Rail availability is
seasonal and can impact aggregates shipments depending on competing movements.

The Company’s management expects the
multiple transportation modes that have been developed with various rail carriers and via deepwater ships should provide the Company with the flexibility to effectively serve customers in the southeastern and southwestern regions of the United
States.

The construction aggregates industry has been consolidating, and the Company has actively participated in the
consolidation of the industry. When acquired, new locations sometimes do not







satisfy the Company’s internal safety, maintenance, and pit development standards, and may require additional resources before benefits of the acquisitions are fully realized. Industry
consolidation has slowed in the last several years as the number of suitable small to mid-sized acquisition targets in high-growth markets declines. During the recent period of fewer acquisition opportunities, the Company has focused on investing in
internal expansion projects in high-growth markets. Management anticipates the number of acquisition opportunities to increase as a result of the protracted recession. Opportunities include public and larger private, family-owned businesses, as well
as asset swaps and divestitures from companies rationalizing non-core assets and repairing financially-constrained balanced sheets. The Company’s Board of Directors and management continue to review and monitor the Company’s strategic
long-term plans, which include assessing business combinations and arrangements with other companies engaged in similar businesses, increasing market share in the Company’s core businesses, investing in internal expansion projects in
high-growth markets, and pursuing new opportunities related to the Company’s existing markets.

The Company became more
vertically integrated with an acquisition in 1998 and subsequent acquisitions, particularly in the West Group, pursuant to which the Company acquired asphalt, ready mixed concrete, paving construction, trucking, and other businesses, which
complement the Company’s aggregates business. These vertically-integrated operations accounted for 20% of net sales of the Aggregates business in 2012, increasing from 8% of net sales in 2011. The Company more than doubled its exposure to
vertical integration with its December 2011 acquisition of several operations in Colorado. These operations have lower gross margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) than the Company’s aggregates product line, and are affected by
volatile factors, including fuel costs, operating efficiencies, and weather, to an even greater extent than the Company’s aggregates business. Liquid asphalt and cement serve as key raw materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready
mixed concrete, respectively. Therefore, fluctuations in prices for these raw materials directly affect the Company’s operating results. During 2012, prices for liquid asphalt and cement were volatile.

The Company has continued to review carefully each of the acquired vertically-integrated operations to determine if they represent
opportunities to divest underperforming assets in an effort to redeploy capital for other opportunities. The Company has also reviewed other independent vertically-integrated operations to determine if they might present attractive acquisition
opportunities in the best interest of the Company, either as part of their own vertically-integrated operations or operations that might be vertically integrated with other operations owned by the Company. Based on these assessments, in 2011 the
Company completed the acquisitions described underGeneralabove, which included vertically-integrated operations, including asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road paving businesses in the Denver, Colorado, and San Antonio, Texas markets.

Environmental and zoning regulations have made it increasingly difficult for the aggregates industry to expand existing
quarries and to develop new quarry operations. Although it cannot be predicted what policies will be adopted in the future by federal, state, and local governmental bodies regarding these matters, the Company anticipates that future restrictions
will likely make zoning and permitting more difficult, thereby potentially enhancing the value of the Company’s existing mineral reserves.

Management believes the Aggregates business’ raw materials, or aggregates reserves, are sufficient to permit production at present operational levels for the foreseeable future. The Company







does not anticipate any material difficulty in obtaining the raw materials that it uses for current production in its Aggregates business. The Company’s aggregates reserves on the average
exceed 60 years of production, based on normalized levels of production. However, certain locations may be subject to more limited reserves and may not be able to expand. Moreover, as noted above, environmental and zoning regulations will likely
make it harder for the Company to expand its existing quarries or develop new quarry operations. The Company generally sells products in its Aggregates business upon receipt of orders or requests from customers. Accordingly, there is no significant
order backlog. The Company generally maintains inventories of aggregate products in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of customers.

Less than 2% of the revenues from the Aggregates business are from foreign jurisdictions, principally Canada and the Bahamas, with revenues from customers in foreign countries totaling $16.4 million,
$17.5 million, and $17.0 million, during 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.

Specialty Products Business

The Company manufactures and markets, through its Specialty Products business, magnesia-based chemical products for industrial,
agricultural, and environmental applications, and dolomitic lime for use primarily in the steel industry. These chemical products have varying uses, including flame retardants, wastewater treatment, pulp and paper production, and other environmental
applications. In 2012, 71% of Specialty Products’ net sales were attributable to chemical products, 28% to lime, and 1% to stone sold as construction materials. Overall net sales in the Specialty Products business increased in 2012 reflecting
growth in both magnesia chemicals sales and dolomitic lime shipments to the steel industry, as well as increased sales from the new capacity generated from the completion of the new lime kiln in Woodville, Ohio described in more detail below.

Given the high fixed costs associated with operating this business, low capacity utilization negatively affects its results
of operations. A significant portion of the costs related to the production of magnesia-based products and dolomitic lime is of a fixed or semi-fixed nature. In addition, the production of certain magnesia chemical products and lime products
requires natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke to fuel kilns. Price fluctuations of these fuels affect the profitability of this business.

In 2012, approximately 73% of the lime produced was sold to third-party customers, while the remaining 27% was used internally as a raw material in making the business’ chemical products. Dolomitic
lime products sold to external customers are used primarily by the steel industry. Products used in the steel industry accounted for approximately 46% of the Specialty Products’ net sales in 2012, attributable primarily to the sale of dolomitic
lime products. Accordingly, a portion of the profitability of the Specialty Products business is dependent on steel production capacity utilization and the related marketplace. These trends are guided by the rate of consumer consumption, the flow of
offshore imports, and other economic factors. In 2012, U.S. steel production increased 3% over 2011 and domestic capacity utilization averaged 75%. Although the steel industry is performing better than the economy as a whole, production levels
remain below the 100 million-ton mark exceeded in each year between 2002 through 2008. During these seven years, the average capacity utilization rate was 97%. Average capacity utilization is expected to rise but not reach 80% on average in
2013.







Management has shifted the strategic focus of the magnesia-based business to specialty
chemicals that can be produced at volume levels that support efficient operations. Accordingly, that business is not as dependent on the steel industry as is the dolomitic lime portion of the Specialty Products business.

The principal raw materials used in the Specialty Products business are dolomitic limestone and alkali-rich brine. Management believes
that its reserves of dolomitic limestone and brine are sufficient to permit production at the current operational levels for the foreseeable future.

After the brine is used in the production process, the Specialty Products business must dispose of the processed brine. In the past, the business did this by reinjecting the processed brine back into its
underground brine reserve network around its facility in Manistee, Michigan. The business has also sold a portion of this processed brine to third parties. In 2003, Specialty Products entered into a long-term processed brine supply agreement with
The Dow Chemical Company (“Dow”) pursuant to which Dow purchases processed brine from Specialty Products, at market rates, for use in Dow’s production of calcium chloride products. Specialty Products also entered into a venture with
Dow to construct, own, and operate a processed brine supply pipeline between the Specialty Products facility in Manistee, Michigan, and Dow’s facility in Ludington, Michigan. Construction of the pipeline was completed in 2003, and Dow began
purchasing processed brine from Specialty Products through the pipeline. In 2010, Dow sold the assets of Dow’s facility in Ludington, Michigan to Occidental Chemical Corporation (“Occidental”) and assigned to Occidental its interests
in the long-term processed brine supply agreement and the pipeline venture with Specialty Products.

In 2001 the Specialty
Products business sold certain assets of its refractories business to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Minerals Technologies Inc. In connection with the sale, the business improved its cost structure through the write down of certain assets and the
repositioning of the Manistee, Michigan, operating facility to focus on the production of chemical products. The sale of the refractories business lessened the dependence of the Specialty Products business on the steel industry over time.

Specialty Products generally delivers its products upon receipt of orders or requests from customers. Accordingly, there is
no significant order backlog. Inventory for products is generally maintained in sufficient quantities to meet rapid delivery requirements of customers.

Approximately 11% of the revenues of the Specialty Products business in 2012 were from foreign jurisdictions, principally Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and the Pacific Rim, but no single foreign
country accounted for 10% or more of the revenues of the business. Revenues from customers in foreign countries totaled $20.2 million, $24.2 million, and $17.1 million, in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. As a result of these foreign market
sales, the financial results of the Specialty Products business could be affected by foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets. To mitigate the short-term effects of currency exchange rates, the Specialty
Products business principally uses the U.S. dollar as the functional currency in foreign transactions.

In 2012, the Company
completed construction of a new dolomitic lime kiln for its Specialty Products business at Woodville, Ohio. The new dolomitic lime capacity is committed under a long-term contract and adds 275,000 tons of capacity and $22 million to $25 million of
annual net sales to







the Specialty Products segment at comparable current margins. The new kiln, which became functional on November 1, 2012, generated $3.1 million of net sales during 2012.

Patents and Trademarks

As of February 15, 2013, the Company owns, has the right to use, or has pending applications for approximately 87 patents pending or granted by the United States and various countries and
approximately 106 trademarks related to business. The Company believes that its rights under its existing patents, patent applications, and trademarks are of value to its operations, but no one patent or trademark or group of patents or trademarks
is material to the conduct of the Company’s business as a whole.

Customers

No material part of the business of any segment of the Company is dependent upon a single customer or upon a few customers, the loss of
any one of which would have a material adverse effect on the segment. The Company’s products are sold principally to commercial customers in private industry. Although large amounts of construction materials are used in public works projects,
relatively insignificant sales are made directly to federal, state, county, or municipal governments, or agencies thereof.

Competition

Because of the impact of transportation costs on the aggregates industry, competition in the Aggregates business tends
to be limited to producers in proximity to each of the Company’s facilities. Although all of the Company’s locations experience competition, the Company believes that it is generally a leading producer in the areas it serves. Competition
is based primarily on quarry or distribution location and price, but quality of aggregates and level of customer service are also factors.

There are over 5,600 companies in the United States that produce construction aggregates. These include active crushed stone companies and active sand and gravel companies. The largest ten producers
account for approximately 35% of the total market. The Company, in its Aggregates business, competes with a number of other large and small producers. The Company believes that its ability to transport materials by ocean vessels, rail, and river
barges have enhanced the Company’s ability to compete in the aggregates business. Some of the Company’s competitors in the aggregates industry have greater financial resources than the Company.

The Company’s Specialty Products business competes with various companies in different geographic and product areas principally on
the basis of quality, price, technological advances, and technical support for its products. The Specialty Products business also competes for sales to customers located outside the United States, with revenues from foreign jurisdictions accounting
for approximately 11% of revenues for the Specialty Products business in 2012, principally in Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and the Pacific Rim. Certain of the Company’s competitors in the Specialty Products business have greater
financial resources than the Company.







Research and Development

The Company conducts research and development activities, principally for its magnesia-based chemicals business, at its plant in Manistee,
Michigan. In general, the Company’s research and development efforts are directed to applied technological development for the use of its chemicals products. The amounts spent by the Company in each of the last two years on research and
development activities were not material.

Environmental and Governmental Regulations

The Company’s operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the environment,
health and safety, and other regulatory matters. Certain of the Company’s operations may from time to time involve the use of substances that are classified as toxic or hazardous substances within the meaning of these laws and regulations.
Environmental operating permits are, or may be, required for certain of the Company’s operations, and such permits are subject to modification, renewal, and revocation.

The Company records an accrual for environmental remediation liabilities in the period in which it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals
are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change. The accruals are not discounted to their present value or offset for potential insurance or other claims or potential gains from future alternative uses for a site.

Many of the requirements of the environmental laws are satisfied by procedures that the Company adopts as best business practices in the ordinary course of its operations. For example, plant equipment
that is used to crush aggregates products may, as an ordinary course of operations, have an attached water spray bar that is used to clean the stone. The water spray bar also suffices as a dust control mechanism that complies with applicable
environmental laws. The Company does not break out the portion of the cost, depreciation, and other financial information relating to the water spray bar







that is only attributable to environmental purposes, as it would be derived from an arbitrary allocation methodology. The incremental portion of such operating costs that is attributable to
environmental compliance rather than best operating practices is impractical to quantify. Accordingly, the Company expenses costs in that category when incurred as operating expenses.

The environmental accruals recorded by the Company are based on internal studies of the required remediation costs and estimates of
potential costs that arise from time to time under federal, state, and/or local environmental protection laws. Many of these laws and the regulations promulgated under them are complex, and are subject to challenges and new interpretations by
regulators and the courts from time to time. In addition, new laws are adopted from time to time. It is often difficult to accurately and fully quantify the costs to comply with new rules until it is determined the type of operations to which they
will apply and the manner in which they will be implemented is more accurately defined. This process often takes years to finalize and changes significantly from the time the rules are proposed to the time they are final. The Company typically has
several appropriate alternatives available to satisfy compliance requirements, which could range from nominal costs to some alternatives that may be satisfied in conjunction with equipment replacement or expansion that also benefits operating
efficiencies or capacities and carry significantly higher costs.

Management believes that its current accrual for
environmental costs is reasonable, although those amounts may increase or decrease depending on the impact of applicable rules as they are finalized from time to time and changes in facts and circumstances. The Company believes that any additional
costs for ongoing environmental compliance would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s obligations or financial condition.

The Company believes that its operations and facilities, both owned or leased, are in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations and that any noncompliance is not likely to have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or financial condition. See “Legal Proceedings” under Item 3 of this Form 10-K, “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to Financial
Statements” of the 2012 Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K and the 2012







Annual Report, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Environmental Regulation and Litigation” included under Item 7
of this Form 10-K and the 2012 Annual Report. However, future events, such as changes in or modified interpretations of existing laws and regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of
certain products or business activities, may give rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

In general, quarry and mining facilities must comply with air quality, water quality, and noise regulations, zoning and special use permitting requirements, applicable mining regulations, and federal
health and safety requirements. As new quarry and mining sites are located and acquired, the Company works closely with local authorities during the zoning and permitting processes to design new quarries and mines in such a way as to minimize
disturbances. The Company frequently acquires large tracts of land so that quarry, mine, and production facilities can be situated substantial distances from surrounding property owners. Also, in certain markets the Company’s ability to
transport material by rail and ship allows it to locate its facilities further away from residential areas. The Company has established policies designed to minimize disturbances to surrounding property owners from its operations.

As is the case with other companies in the same industry, some of the Company’s products contain varying amounts of crystalline
silica, a common mineral also known as quartz. Excessive, prolonged inhalation of very small-sized particles of crystalline silica has been associated with lung diseases, including silicosis, and several scientific organizations and some states,
such as California, have reported that crystalline silica can cause lung cancer. The Mine Safety and Health Administration and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration have established occupational thresholds for crystalline silica exposure
as respirable dust. The Company monitors occupational exposures at its facilities and implements dust control procedures and/or makes available appropriate respiratory protective equipment to maintain the occupational exposures at or below the
appropriate levels. The Company, through safety information sheets and other means, also communicates what it believes to be appropriate warnings and cautions its employees and customers about the risks associated with excessive, prolonged
inhalation of mineral dust in general and crystalline silica in particular.

In 2010, the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (“USEPA”) included the lime industry as a national enforcement priority under the federal Clean Air Act (“CAA”). As part of the industry wide effort, the USEPA issued Notices of Violation/Findings of Violation
(“NOVs”) to the Company in 2010 and 2011 regarding the Company’s compliance with the CAA New Source Review (“NSR”) program at the Specialty Products dolomitic lime manufacturing plant in Woodville, Ohio. The Company has
been providing information to the USEPA in response to these NOVs and has had several meetings with the USEPA. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the NSR program. Because the enforcement proceeding is in its initial
stage, the Company cannot at this time reasonably estimate what reasonable likely penalties or upgrades to equipment might ultimately be required. The Company believes that any costs related to any required upgrades will be spread over time and will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or its financial condition, but can give no assurance that the ultimate resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results
of operations of the Specialty Products segment of the business.







In September 2005, the USEPA designated several entities as potentially responsible parties
(PRPs) under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), at the Ward Transformer Superfund site located in Raleigh, North Carolina. In April 2009, two PRPs filed separate actions in the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina against more than 100 other entities, including the Company, seeking contribution from the defendants for expenses incurred by the plaintiffs related to work performed at a portion of the
site. The USEPA has not designated the Company as a PRP. The ultimate outcome of these matters will depend upon further environmental assessment and the ultimate number of PRPs and defendants who are held liable for the costs and cannot be
determined at this time. The Company believes that any liability will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.

The operations of the Company’s Aggregates business are not major sources of GHG emissions. Most of the GHG emissions from aggregate
operations are tailpipe emissions from mobile sources such as heavy construction and earth-moving equipment. The manufacturing operations of the Company’s Specialty Products business in Woodville, Ohio releases carbon dioxide, methane and
nitrous oxide during the production of lime. The Specialty Products operation in Manistee, Michigan releases carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxides in the manufacture of magnesium oxide and hydroxide products. Both of these operations are
filing annual reports of their GHG emissions in accordance with the USEPA’s Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule. If and when Congress passes legislation on GHGs, the Woodville and Manistee operations will likely be subject to the new
program. The Company believes that the USEPA may impose additional regulatory restrictions on emissions of GHGs that will impact the Company’s Woodville and Manistee operations. The Company anticipates that any increased operating costs or
taxes relating to GHG emission limitations







at the Woodville operation or for magnesium hydroxide produced at the Manistee operation would be passed on to its customers. The magnesium oxide products produced at the Manistee operation
compete against other products that emit a lower level of GHGs in their production. Therefore, the Manistee facility may be required to absorb additional costs due to the regulation of GHG emissions in order to remain competitive in pricing in that
market. The Company is also analyzing the obligations of our Manistee facility’s global customer base with regards to climate change treaties and accords. The Company at this time cannot reasonably predict what the costs of compliance will be
but does not believe it will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of the operations of the Specialty Products business.

Employees

As of January 31, 2013, the Company has 4,948
employees, of which 3,681 are hourly employees and 1,267 are salaried employees. Included among these employees are 717 hourly employees represented by labor unions (14.5% of the Company’s employees). Of such amount, 12.8% of the Company’s
Aggregates business’s hourly employees are members of a labor union, while 100% of the Specialty Products segment’s hourly employees are represented by labor unions. The Company’s principal union contracts cover employees of the
Specialty Products business at the Manistee, Michigan, magnesia-based chemicals plant and the Woodville, Ohio, lime plant. The Manistee collective bargaining agreement expires in August 2015. The Woodville collective bargaining agreement expires in
June 2014. While the Company’s management does not expect significant difficulties in renewing these labor contracts, there can be no assurance that a successor agreement will be reached at either location. The Company added a net increase of
463 employees directly related to the acquisitions it completed in 2011.

Available Information

The Company maintains an Internet address atwww.martinmarietta.com. The Company makes available free of charge through its
Internet web site its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, if any, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports and
any amendments are accessed via the Company’s web site through a link with the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (“EDGAR”) system maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) atwww.sec.gov. Accordingly, the Company’s referenced reports and any amendments are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC, once EDGAR places
such material in its database.

The Company has adopted aCode of Ethics and Standards of Conductthat applies to all
of its directors, officers, and employees. The Company’s code of ethics is available on the Company’s web site atwww.martinmarietta.com. The Company intends to disclose on its Internet web site any waivers of or amendments to its
code of ethics as it applies to its directors and executive officers.

The Company has adopted a set ofCorporate
Governance Guidelinesto address issues of fundamental importance relating to the corporate governance of the Company, including director qualifications and responsibilities, responsibilities of key board committees, director compensation, and
similar issues. Each of the Audit Committee, the Management Development and Compensation







Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted a written charter addressing various issues of importance relating to each
committee, including the committee’s purposes and responsibilities, an annual performance evaluation of each committee, and similar issues. TheseCorporate Governance Guidelines, and the charters of each of these committees, are
available on the Company’s web site atwww.martinmarietta.com.

The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer are required to file with the SEC each quarter and each year certifications regarding the quality of the Company’s public disclosure of its financial condition. The annual certifications are included as Exhibits to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer is also required to certify to the New York Stock Exchange each year that he is not aware of any violation by the Company of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance
listing standards.



