ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be
carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems minor or
insignificant also may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks occur, Moody’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. These risk factors should be read in
conjunction with the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K.

U.S. Laws and Regulations Affecting the Credit Rating Industry are Rapidly Evolving
and May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business

Moody’s operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to
extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S., including the Reform Act and the Financial Reform Act. These regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. See
“Regulation” in Part 1, Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information. These laws and regulations:



»seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among rating agencies and in the credit rating business;



»may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings;



»restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings;



»increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and CRA operations;



»provide for direct jurisdiction of the SEC over CRAs that seek NRSRO status, and grant authority to the SEC to inspect the operations of CRAs; and



»authorize the adoption of enhanced oversight standards and new pleading standards, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities
and aggregate legal defense costs.

Financial Reforms Outside the U.S. Affecting the Credit Rating Industry May Negatively Impact the Nature and
Economics of the Company’s Business

In addition to the extensive and evolving U.S. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions
have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. In particular, the EU has adopted a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the EU, and introduced a common EU regulatory approach to
oversight of CRAs. The EU has established conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules on the organization and conduct of CRAs—including restrictions on certain activities deemed to create a conflict of interest—and special
requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. ESMA has direct supervisory authority for CRAs in the EU.

MIS is a registered entity and is therefore
subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection. Applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory
rotation requirements of CRAs hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, restrictions on CRAs or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed, and additional procedural and substantive requirements on the
pricing of services.

On January 6, 2015, two additional rules (generally referred to as “Regulatory Technical Standards” or “RTSs”) of
direct relevance to the CRA industry were published in the Official Journal of the European Union: (i) CRAs’ reporting requirements to ESMA on their fees; and



MOODY’S2014 10K17




(ii) the types of information that CRAs are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by ESMA (the European
Ratings Platform). Separately, CRA3 also requires that ESMA and / or the European Commission produce several reports on the industry’s structure and the use of ratings. These reports are expected to be published by year end 2015.

EU financial reforms could have a significant negative effect on Moody’s operations, profitability or ability to compete, or the markets for its products and
services, including in ways that Moody’s presently is unable to predict. In particular, exposure to increased liability under the EU regulations may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and
materially and adversely impact Moody’s results of operations. In addition, compliance with the amended EU regulations may increase costs of operations.

Further, Moody’s believes there is still potential for additional rulemaking by the EU and other jurisdictions that can significantly impact operations or the
markets for Moody’s products and services, such as regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, establishing criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings. Moody’s cannot
predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will have on Moody’s business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. Financial reforms in the EU and other foreign
jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

The Company Faces Exposure to Litigation
Related to Rating Opinions and Other Business Practices

The Company is Exposed to Legal, Economic and Regulatory Risks of Operating in Multiple Jurisdictions

Moody’s conducts operations in various countries outside the U.S. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. Changes in the economic
condition of the various foreign economies in which the Company operates may have an impact on the Company’s business. For example, economic uncertainty in the Eurozone or elsewhere could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken
within those particular areas. In addition, operations abroad expose Moody’s to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as:



»restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into USD;



»exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and USD;



»the costs of repatriating cash held by entities outside the U.S.;



»U.S. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers;



»differing legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards;



»current and future regulations relating to the imposition of mandatory rotation requirements on CRAs hired by issuers of securities;



»uncertain and evolving laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries;



»economic, political and geopolitical market conditions;



»the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions;



»competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions;



18MOODY’S2014 10K




»reduced protection for intellectual property rights;



»longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables;



»differing accounting principles and standards;



»difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; and



»potentially adverse tax consequences.

Additionally, Moody’s is subject to complex U.S. and foreign laws and
regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. Although the Company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance
programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. Any determination that
the Company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s financial condition. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to the Company’s international
operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a
material adverse effect on Moody’s reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition.

Moody’s Operations and Infrastructure May Malfunction or Fail

The Company is Exposed to Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Protection of Confidential Information

Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global Capital Markets and Changes in Interest Rates and Other Volatility in the Financial
Markets May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business

Moody’s business is impacted by general economic conditions and
volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets. Furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional



MOODY’S2014 10K19




parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional CRAs, such as MIS. A majority of Moody’s credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially
dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Accordingly, any market volatility or conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or issuers’ willingness or ability to issue such
securities could reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which Moody’s provides ratings services and thereby have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings. Therefore, no assurance can be
given as to the amount of revenues that may be derived from Moody’s ratings services.

Credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in
the past negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. Economic and government factors such as a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions and a worsening of the
sovereign debt crisis in Europe may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. Future debt issuances could be negatively affected by a sharp increase in long-term interest rates or factors which cause instability or volatility in
the global capital markets, such as significant regulatory, political or economic events, the use of alternative sources of credit, including financial institutions and government sources, and defaults of significant issuers and other market and
economic factors. Changes in the markets for such securities and in the role and regulation of rating agencies may materially and adversely affect the Company.

Moody’s initiatives to reduce costs to counteract a decline in its business may not be sufficient and cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the
short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the Company’s operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. Further, cost-reduction initiatives, including those undertaken
to date, could make it difficult for the Company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the demand for ratings. Volatility in the financial markets, including changes in the volumes of debt securities and
changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition.

The Company Faces Increased Pricing
Pressure from Competitors and/or Customers

There is price competition in the credit rating, research, credit risk management markets, outsourced research and
analytical services and financial training and certification services. Competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and services, as well as increased competition from
non-NRSROs that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. At the same time, the current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting
demand may enhance the market power of competitors and result in reductions in the size of the Company’s customer base. Tepid economic growth is also intensifying the competitive pressures as to pricing. While Moody’s seeks to compete
primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and services, it may lose market share if its pricing is not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors. In addition, the Reform Act was designed to encourage competition
among rating agencies. The formation of additional NRSROs may increase pricing and competitive pressures. Any inability of Moody’s to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its products and services could have a material adverse
impact on its business, operating results and financial condition.

The Company is Exposed to Reputation and Credibility Concerns

Moody’s reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. To the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or Moody’s, relative to
its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, Moody’s business could be significantly impacted. Factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a
conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and increased criticism by users of
ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities. Operational errors, whether by Moody’s or a Moody’s competitor, could also harm the reputation
of the Company or the credit rating industry. Damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

The Introduction of Competing Products or Technologies by Other Companies May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business

The markets for credit ratings, research, credit risk management services, outsourced research and analytical services and financial training and certification services
are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. The ability to develop and successfully launch and maintain innovative products and technologies that anticipate
customers’ changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. Moody’s competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market
experience and technological expertise, and smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. Competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for
assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by Moody’s, or may position, price or market their products in
manners that differ from those utilized by Moody’s. Moody’s also competes indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers; these indirect competitors could choose to



20MOODY’S2014 10K




compete directly with us in the future. In addition, customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. Such developments could affect demand for
Moody’s products and services and its growth prospects. Further, the increased availability in recent years of free or relatively inexpensive Internet information may reduce the demand for Moody’s products and services. Moody’s growth
prospects also could be adversely affected by Moody’s failure to make necessary or optimal capital infrastructure expenditures and improvements and the inability of its information technologies to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to
meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. Any inability of Moody to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial
condition.

The Company Has a Significant Amount of Intangible Assets

At December 31, 2014, Moody’s had $1,021.1 million of goodwill and $345.5 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet. Approximately 71% of these
intangibles reside in the MA business and are allocated to the four reporting units within MA: RD&A; ERS; Financial Services Training and Certifications; and Copal Amba. The remaining 29% of these intangibles reside in MIS and primarily relate
to ICRA. Failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in an asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. Goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite lives are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be difficult as a result of increased
uncertainty and current market dynamics, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. In addition, the potential for goodwill impairment is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. An asset impairment charge could have a
material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

Possible Loss of Key Employees and Related Compensation Cost
Pressures May Negatively Impact the Company

Moody’s success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced
financial analysts and other professionals. Competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and Moody’s ability to attract high quality employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive
compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. As greater focus has been placed on executive
compensation at public companies, in the future, Moody’s may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. Investment banks, investors and competitors
may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than Moody’s. Moody’s also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified
employees in some markets outside the U.S. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. There is a risk that even if the Company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified
personnel, it will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed.

Moody’s is highly dependent on the continued services of Raymond W. McDaniel,
Jr., the President and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior officers and key employees. The loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and Moody’s inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well
as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

Moody’s Acquisitions and Other Strategic Transactions May Not Produce Anticipated Results

Moody’s has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen its business and grow the Company. Such
transactions present significant challenges and risks. The market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect Moody’s ability to complete such
transactions. If Moody’s is unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

If such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth, synergies and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of
factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. Any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including unanticipated challenges regarding integration of operations, technologies and new employees; the
existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by the Company prior to closing a transaction; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business;
diverting management’s focus from other business operations; and failing to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such
controls, procedures and policies. The anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. As a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic
transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

The Trading Price
of Moody’s Stock Could be Affected by Third Party Actions

Ownership of Moody’s stock is highly concentrated with a significant portion of shares
held by a few institutional stockholders. Due to this concentrated stockholder base, the trading price of Moody’s stock could be affected considerably by actions of significant



MOODY’S2014 10K21




stockholders to increase or decrease their positions in Moody’s stock. As a result, the actions of these institutional stockholders could create high stock volatility.

The Company’s Compliance and Risk Management Programs Might Not be Effective and May Result in Outcomes That Could Adversely Affect the Company’s
Reputation, Financial Condition and Operating Results.

Moody’s operates in a number of countries, and as a result the Company is required to comply with
numerous international and U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. The Company’s ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of
compliance, review and reporting systems. Moody’s policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the Company’s risks may not be fully effective, and Moody’s employees [or agents] may engage in misconduct, fraud or other
errors. It is not always possible to deter such errors, and the precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. If Moody’s employees violate its policies or if the Company’s risk
management methods are not effective, the Company could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer harm to the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.

Legal Protections for the Company’s Intellectual Property Rights may not be Sufficient or Available to Protect the Company’s Competitive Advantages.

Moody’s considers many aspects of its products and services to be proprietary. Failure to protect the Company’s intellectual property adequately
could harm its reputation and affect the Company’s ability to compete effectively. In addition, the Company’s operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual
property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. On January 6, 2015, a rule with direct relevance to the CRA industry was published in the Official Journal of the European Union regarding the types of information that CRAs are
to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by ESMA (the European Ratings Platform). This rule directly relates to the Company’s intellectual property as it would
require that the Company provide proprietary information at no cost that the Company currently sells, which could result in lost revenue.

Additionally, despite the
Company’s efforts to protect its intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may try to obtain and use technology or other information that the Company regards as proprietary. Even if Moody’s attempts to protect its
intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that the Company will be successful.

The Company is Dependent on the Use of Third-Party Software, Data, Hosted Solutions, Data Centers, and Network Infrastructure(Together,
“Third Party Technology”), and Any Reduction in Third-Party Product Quality or Service Offerings, Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations.

Moody’s relies on Third Party Technology in connection with its product development and offerings. The Company depends on the ability of Third Party
Technology providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. The Third Party
Technology Moody’s uses may become obsolete, incompatible with future versions of the Company’s products, unavailable or fail to operate effectively, and Moody’s business could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to timely
or effectively replace such Third Party Technology. The Company also monitors its use of Third Party Technology to comply with applicable license and other contractual requirements. Despite the Company’s efforts, the Company cannot assure that
such third parties will permit Moody’s use in the future, resulting in increased Third Party Technology acquisition costs and loss of rights. In addition, the Company’s operating costs could increase if license or other usage fees for
Third Party Technology increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to Third Party Technology are substantial. Some of these third-party suppliers are also Moody’s competitors, increasing the risks noted above. If any of these risks
materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.



