ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report
on Form10-Kshould be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that
the Company’s management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks occur, Moody’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and
adversely affected. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on Form10-K.

U.S. Laws and Regulations Affecting the Credit Rating Industry May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business.

Moody’s operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S., including the Reform Act
and the Financial Reform Act. These regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. See “Regulation” in Part 1, Item 1 of this annual report on Form10-Kfor more information. These laws and regulations:



»seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among rating agencies and in the credit rating business;



»may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings;



»restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings;



»increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and CRA operations;



»provide for direct jurisdiction of the SEC over CRAs that seek NRSRO status, and grant authority to the SEC to inspect the operations of CRAs; and



»authorize the adoption of enhanced oversight standards and new pleading standards, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities
and aggregate legal defense costs.

Financial Reforms Outside the U.S. Affecting the Credit Rating Industry May Negatively Impact
the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business.

In addition to the extensive and evolving U.S. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign
jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. In particular, the EU has adopted a common regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the EU. As a result, ESMA has direct
supervisory authority for CRAs in the EU and has the power to take enforcement action againstnon-compliantCRAs, including through the issuance of public notices, withdrawal of registration and, in some
cases, the imposition of fines.

MIS is a registered entity and is therefore subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection in the EU. Applicable rules include
procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation requirements of CRAs hired by issuers of securities for ratings of
resecuritizations, and restrictions on CRAs or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed. Additional procedural and substantive requirements include conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules regarding the organization
of CRAs, restrictions on activities deemed to create a conflict of interest, including fees that are based on costs and arenon-discriminatory,and special requirements for the rating of structured finance
instruments. Compliance with the EU regulations may increase costs of operations and could have a significant negative effect on Moody’s operations, profitability or ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services, including in
ways that Moody’s presently is unable to predict. In addition, exposure to increased liability under the EU regulations may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely
impact Moody’s results of operations.



18MOODY’S2017 10-K




The EU and other jurisdictions engage in rulemaking on an ongoing basis that could significantly impact operations or the
markets for Moody’s products and services, including regulations extending to products and services not currently regulated and regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, expansion of supervisory remit to includenon-EUratings used for regulatory purposes, increasing the level of competition in the market for credit ratings, establishing criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit
ratings. Moody’s cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will have on Moody’s business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. Financial reforms in the EU
and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

The Company Faces
Exposure to Litigation and Government Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations and Inquiries Related to Rating Opinions and Other Business Practices.

The Company is Exposed to Legal, Economic, Operational and Regulatory Risks of Operating in Multiple
Jurisdictions.

Moody’s conducts operations in various countries outside the U.S. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources.
Changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the Company operates may have an impact on the Company’s business. For example, economic uncertainty in the Eurozone or elsewhere could affect the number of securities
offerings undertaken within those particular areas. In addition, operations abroad expose Moody’s to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as:



»exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and USD;



»restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into USD and the costs, including the tax impact, of repatriating cash held by entities outside the U.S.;



»U.S. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers;



»differing and potentially conflicting legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards, including as a result of the U.K.’s referendum vote to withdraw from the EU, Brexit;



»current and future regulations relating to the imposition of mandatory rotation requirements on CRAs hired by issuers of securities;



»uncertain and evolving laws and regulations, including those applicable to the financial services industries, such as the European Union’s implementation of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II, MiFID
II, in January 2018, and to the protection of intellectual property;



»economic, political and geopolitical market conditions;



»the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions;



MOODY’S2017 10-K19




»competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions;



»uncertainties of obtaining data and creating products and services relevant to particular geographic markets;



»reduced protection for intellectual property rights;



»longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables;



»differing accounting principles and standards;



»difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;



»difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; and



»potentially adverse tax consequences.

Additionally, Moody’s is subject to complex U.S., foreign and other local laws
and regulations that are applicable to its operations abroad, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. Although the Company has implemented internal controls,
policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and
violating applicable laws and regulations. Any determination that the Company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition. Compliance with
international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to the Company’s international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Violations of such laws and regulations may result in severe fines and penalties,
criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition.

Moody’s Operations and Infrastructure May Malfunction or Fail.

break-ins,

low-risk

non-essential

The
Company is Exposed to Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Protection of Confidential Information.

The Company’s operations rely on the secure processing,
storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information relating to its business operations and confidential and sensitive information about its customers and employees in the



20MOODY’S2017 10-K




denial-of-service

Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities
Issued in Domestic and/or Global Capital Markets, Asset Levels and Flows into Investment Levels and Changes in Interest Rates and Other Volatility in the Financial Markets May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s
Business.

Moody’s business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets. Furthermore, issuers of
debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated bynon-traditionalparties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional CRAs, such as MIS. A
majority of Moody’s credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Market disruptions and economic slowdown and
uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. The Tax Act, in addition to other changes to U.S. tax laws and policy, could negatively affect the
volume of debt securities issued in the U.S. For example, the Tax Act will limit deductibility on interest payments and significantly reduce the tax cost associated with the repatriation of cash held outside the U.S., both of which could negatively
affect the volume of debt securities issued. Conditions that reduce issuers’ ability or willingness to issue debt securities, such as market volatility, declining growth, currency devaluations or other adverse economic trends, reduce the number
and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which Moody’s provides ratings services and thereby adversely affect the fees Moody’s earns in its ratings business.

Economic and government factors such as a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions or are-emergenceof the
sovereign debt crisis in Europe may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. Future debt issuances also could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, widening credit spreads, regulatory and political developments, growth
in the use of alternative sources of credit, and defaults by significant issuers. Declines or other changes in the markets for debt securities may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial
condition.

Moody’s initiatives to reduce costs to counteract a decline in its business may not be sufficient and cost reductions may be difficult or impossible
to obtain in the short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the Company’s operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. Further, cost-reduction initiatives, including
those under-



MOODY’S2017 10-K21




taken to date, could make it difficult for the Company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the demand for ratings. Volatility in the financial markets,
including changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition, which the Company may not be able to successfully offset with cost
reductions.

The Company Faces Increased Pricing Pressure from Competitors and/or Customers.

in-house

non-NRSROs

The Company is Exposed to Reputation and Credibility Concerns.

Moody’s reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. To the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or Moody’s, relative to
its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, Moody’s business could be significantly impacted. Factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a
conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and increased criticism by users of
ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities and intentional or unintentional misrepresentations of Moody’s products and services in advertising
materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications. Operational errors, whether by Moody’s or a Moody’s competitor, could also harm the reputation of the Company or the credit rating industry. Damage to
reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition, as well as on the Company’s ability to find suitable candidates for acquisition.

The Introduction of Competing Products or Technologies by Other Companies May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business.

Possible Loss of Key Employees and Related Compensation Cost Pressures May Negatively Impact the Company.

Moody’s success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals.
Competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and Moody’s ability to attract high quality



22MOODY’S2017 10-K




employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual
employees that would not be necessary in competing industries. As greater focus has been placed on executive compensation at public companies, in the future, Moody’s may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that could
adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. Investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive
compensation packages than Moody’s. Moody’s also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the U.S. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis.
There is a risk that even if the Company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, it will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed.

Moody’s is highly dependent on the continued services of Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., the President and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior officers and key
employees. The loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and Moody’s inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material
adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

Moody’s Acquisitions, Dispositions and Other Strategic Transactions or
Internal Technology Investments May Not Produce Anticipated Results Exposing the Company to Future Significant Impairment Charges Relating to its Goodwill, Intangible Assets or Property and Equipment.

Moody’s has entered into and expects to continue to enter into acquisition, disposition or other strategic transactions and expects to make various investments to
strengthen its business and grow the Company. Such transactions as well as internal technology investments present significant challenges and risks. The market for acquisition targets, dispositions and other strategic transactions is highly
competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect Moody’s ability to complete such transactions. If Moody’s is unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if opportunities for expansion do not arise, its
business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we make significant investments in technology including software developed forinternal-usewhich is
time-intensive and complex to implement. Such investments may not be successful or may not result in the anticipated benefits resulting in asset write-offs.

At December 31, 2017, Moody’s had $3,753.2 million of goodwill and
$1,631.6 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet, both of which increased significantly due to the acquisition of Bureau van Dijk. Approximately 92% of the goodwill and intangible assets reside in the MA business, including those
related to Bureau van Dijk, and are allocated to the five reporting units within MA: RD&A; ERS; Financial Services Training and Certifications; Moody’s Analytics Knowledge Services; and Bureau van Dijk. The remaining 8% of goodwill and
intangible assets reside in MIS and primarily relate to ICRA. Failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in a significant asset impairment charge, which would result in anon-cashcharge to operating expenses. Goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred.
Determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be especially difficult in periods of market or economic uncertainty and turmoil, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. In addition, the potential for goodwill impairment
is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. An asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

The Company’s Compliance and Risk Management Programs May Not be Effective and May Result in Outcomes That Could Adversely Affect the Company’s
Reputation, Financial Condition and Operating Results.

Moody’s operates in a number of countries, and as a result the Company is required to comply and
quickly adapt with numerous international and U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. The Company’s ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations,



MOODY’S2017 10-K23




including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of compliance, review and reporting systems, as well as its ability to attract and retain qualified
compliance and risk management personnel. Moody’s policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the Company’s risks, including risks resulting from acquisitions, may not be fully effective, and Moody’s employees or agents
may engage in misconduct, fraud or other errors. It is not always possible to deter such errors, and the precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. If Moody’s employees violate its
policies or if the Company’s risk management methods are not effective, the Company could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of the Company’s employees, fines, penalties, regulatory sanctions, injunctive relief,
exclusion from certain markets or other penalties, and may suffer harm to its reputation, financial condition and operating results.

Legal Protections for the
Company’s Intellectual Property Rights may not be Sufficient or Available to Protect the Company’s Competitive Advantages.

Moody’s considers
many aspects of its products and services to be proprietary. Failure to protect the Company’s intellectual property adequately could harm its reputation and affect the Company’s ability to compete effectively. Businesses the Company
acquires also involve intellectual property portfolios, which increase the challenges the Company faces in protecting its strategic advantage. In addition, the Company’s operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing
legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. On January 6, 2015, a rule with direct relevance to the CRA industry was published in the Official Journal of the European
Union regarding the types of information that CRAs are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by ESMA (the European Ratings Platform). This rule directly relates to
the Company’s intellectual property as it requires that the Company provide proprietary information at no cost that the Company currently sells, which could result in lost revenue. ESMA launched the European Rating Platform for public use on
December 1, 2016.

Unauthorized third parties may also try to obtain and use technology or other information that the Company regards as proprietary. It is also
possible that Moody’s competitors or other entities could obtain patents related to the types of products and services that Moody’s offers, and attempt to require Moody’s to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to
modify or redesign the products or services to avoid infringing, or to obtain licenses from the holders of the patents in order to continue developing and marketing the products and services. Even if Moody’s attempts to assert or protect its
intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that the Company will be successful. These risks, and the cost, time and resources needed to address them, may
increase as the Company’s business grows and its profile rises in countries with intellectual property regimes that are less protective than the rules and regulations applied in the United States.

The Company is Dependent on the Use of Third-Party Software, Data, Hosted Solutions, Data Centers, Cloud and Network Infrastructure (Together, “Third
Party Technology”), and Any Reduction in Third-Party Product Quality or Service Offerings, Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations.

Moody’s relies on Third Party Technology in connection with its product development and offerings and operations. The Company depends on the ability of Third Party
Technology providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. The Third Party
Technology Moody’s uses may become obsolete, incompatible with future versions of the Company’s products, unavailable or fail to operate effectively, and Moody’s business could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to timely
or effectively replace such Third Party Technology. The Company also monitors its use of Third Party Technology to comply with applicable license and other contractual requirements. Despite the Company’s efforts, the Company cannot ensure that
such third parties will permit Moody’s use in the future, resulting in increased Third Party Technology acquisition costs and loss of rights. In addition, the Company’s operating costs could increase if license or other usage fees for
Third Party Technology increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to Third Party Technology are substantial. Some of these third-party suppliers are also Moody’s competitors, increasing the risks noted above. If any of these risks
materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

Changes in Tax Rates or
Tax Rules Could Affect Future Results.

As a global company, Moody’s is subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries and
jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is determined based on the pre-tax income and applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Moody’s future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of
earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates or other factors, including by increased earnings in jurisdictions where Moody’s faces higher tax rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which Moody’s is not able to realize the
related tax benefit, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, policies and administrative practices, or changes to their interpretation or enforcement, including changes
applicable to multinational corporations such as the Base Erosion Profit Shifting project being conducted by the Organization for EconomicCo-operationand Development and the European Union’s state aid
rulings, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition. The Tax Act made significant changes to the U.S. federal tax laws. Many aspects of the new legislation are
currently uncertain or unclear and may not be clarified for some time. As



24MOODY’S2017 10-K




additional regulatory guidance is issued interpreting or clarifying the Tax Act or if the tax accounting rules are modified, there may be adjustments or changes to our estimate of the
mandatoryone-timedeemed repatriation tax liability (“transition tax”) on previously untaxed accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries recorded in 2017. Additional regulatory guidance may
also affect our expected future effective tax rates and tax assets and liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Furthermore, the Tax Act may impact
the volume of debt securities issued as discussed in the Risk Factor,Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global Capital Markets, Asset Levels and Flows into Investment Levels and Changes in Interest Rates and
Other Volatility in the Financial Markets May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business.

In addition, Moody’s is subject
to regular examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and the Company is experiencing increased scrutiny as its business grows. Moody’s regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or
unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits; however, developments in an audit or litigation could materially and adversely affect the
Company. Although the Company believes its tax estimates and accruals are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in its historical income tax provisions,
accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.



