ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The following risk factors and other
information included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or
that the Company’s management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks occur, Moody’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially
adversely affected.

Laws and Regulations Affecting the Credit Rating Industry are Rapidly Evolving and May Negatively Impact the Nature and
Economics of the Company’s Business

Credit rating agencies are regulated in both the U.S. (by federal, state and local authorities) and in
other countries. Over the past few years, many jurisdictions have adopted or proposed new laws and regulations that impact the operation of credit rating agencies and the markets for securities that are rated. Additional laws and regulations have
been proposed or are being considered, and further legislation or regulation may be proposed or implemented in the future. Some of the more prominent developments are discussed below or under the section entitled “Regulation” in Part I,
Item 1 of this Form 10-K. These laws and regulations are intended to cause, or may result in, increased competition in the credit rating business. In addition, these laws or regulations may cause or result in (i) alternatives to credit
ratings, (ii) regulations or restrictions on how information is used in the development or maintenance of credit ratings, (iii) increased regulatory oversight of the credit markets and credit rating agency operation, (iv) limits on
the number of years that a credit rating agency can rate securities of a particular issuer, or (v) changes in the pricing of credit ratings. All of these items could result in an increase in costs that Moody’s may not be able to pass
through to customers and a decrease in the demand for or changes in the use of credit ratings.

New pleading and liability standards that have been
adopted in the U.S. and proposed elsewhere may subject credit rating agencies to a greater number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities, may place greater burdens on credit rating agencies to
defend themselves, could result in such legal proceedings continuing for a greater period of time before being resolved, and could result in increased uncertainty over and exposure to liability of credit rating agencies. As new laws and regulations
applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies rapidly evolve, the costs of compliance are expected to increase, and Moody’s may not be able to pass on these costs through the pricing of its services. In addition, there may be greater
uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of new laws and regulations, which may increase compliance costs and increase the possibility of fines, penalties or other sanctions (including restrictions on activities) being imposed.



16MOODY’S2011 10-K




In the U.S., MIS is designated as an NRSRO pursuant to SEC regulations adopted under the Reform Act. One of the central tenets of the Reform Act was to encourage
competition among rating agencies. The Reform Act established standards for the SEC to have direct jurisdiction over credit rating agencies that seek NRSRO status and to inspect their operations.

In the U.S., one of the tenets of the Financial Reform Act enacted in 2011 is that credit rating agencies play an important role in the financial market and should
be subject to enhanced oversight standards that could result in enhanced liability. The Financial Reform Act amends a number of laws and regulations, requires the SEC to adopt a number of rules affecting rating agencies and the use of credit
ratings, especially in structured finance markets, and authorizes a number of studies relating to the operations and legal standards applicable to CRAs. Provisions of the Financial Reform Act and other rules that have recently been or may be adopted
by the SEC in furtherance of the Financial Reform Act that pose risks to the Company’s business include, among others:



•heightened compliance standards;



•increased disclosure obligations;



•provisions seeking to diminish regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, including the elimination of SEC rules that include eligibility standards
based on credit ratings;



•rules potentially mandating disclosure of sensitive issuer information provided to CRAs for the purpose of developing a rating;



•a mandate that the SEC study the feasibility of establishing a system in which a utility or a self-regulatory organization assigns NRSROs to determine the credit
ratings of structured finance products to address so-called “rating-shopping” by issuers and underwriters of structured financial products; and



•changes to the pleading standards and, by repealing Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act, the liability standards under the federal securities laws if a CRA
consents to have a rating included in a registration statement or prospectus.

In addition, in October 2009, the SEC proposed a rule providing that, if credit ratings are used in connection with an
offering of any other type of security that is registered under the Securities Act (which as proposed would include use of a credit rating for certain



MOODY’S2011 10-K17




unregistered securities offerings that are subsequently subject to a registered exchange offer), the ratings must be included in the registration statement. If adopted, this proposal, coupled
with the Financial Reform Act’s rescission of Rule 436(g), would mean that common practices used in the U.S. to market and sell securities in such offerings would have to be altered unless MIS or other credit rating agencies consented to
subject themselves to expert liability provisions of the Securities Act with respect to their credit ratings. Adoption of this or a similar rule could impact the volume of securities sold in such offerings, demand for MIS’s ratings, the pricing
structure for ratings issued by MIS and/or Moody’s exposure to liability and could have other effects that Moody’s is not able to predict, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.

Both the G-8 and the G-20 have sought to analyze and arrive at a consistent approach for addressing various areas of the financial market and have made a variety of
recommendations as to regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. Specifically, the G-20 has agreed to require the registration of rating agencies in their home jurisdiction. As a result of the internationally coordinated approach,
countries other than the U.S. (which as noted above had already adopted a registration regime for NRSROs) have begun the process of implementing registration regimes for the oversight of CRAs. In particular, the EU adopted a new regulatory framework
for rating agencies operating in the EU. The regulation seeks to introduce a common EU regulatory approach to the oversight of CRAs. Its primary objective is to enhance the integrity, transparency, responsibility, governance and reliability of
credit rating activities, by establishing conditions for the issuance of credit ratings and rules on the organization and conduct of credit rating agencies, including restrictions on certain activities that are deemed to create a conflict of
interest and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. The regulation became fully effective on September 6, 2010. MIS applied for registration in August 2010 and was granted registration in October 2011.

In addition, the European Securities and Market Authority became fully operational in July 2011 and now has direct supervisory authority for CRAs in the
EU.

The European Commission published a consultation paper on CRAs at the end of 2010 which covered the following topics:



•the potential for increasing the liability or changing the basis of liability of CRAs for their ratings;



•the issuer-pay CRA business model;



•amending existing regulations to reduce reliance on ratings by governments and regulated industries;



•proposed changes to the business model associated with the rating of sovereigns; and



•increasing competition among CRAs.

The EU
Parliament also published its own report discussing a number of these issues.

In furtherance of the foregoing, the European Commission issued proposed
amendments to the existing regulations. If enacted as proposed, the revised regulations, among other things, would:



•impose various additional procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers;



•require EU member states to adopt laws imposing liability on credit rating agencies for an intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by the applicable
regulations;



•potentially impose a greater burden of proof on credit rating agencies accused of failing to abide by applicable regulations;



•impose rotation requirements on issuers of securities, thereby limiting the number of years a credit rating agency can issue ratings for securities of a
particular issuer;



•enhance ESMA’s role in reviewing rating methodologies; and



•impose additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services.

The foregoing initiatives, if implemented and depending on their terms, could have a significant negative effect on Moody’s operations or profitability, ability to compete or the markets for its products and
services, including in ways that Moody’s presently is unable to predict. In particular, exposure to increased liability under future EU regulation may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and
materially and adversely affect Moody’s results of operations. Moody’s also believes that the Commission’s proposed rotation requirements, if enacted, would lead to a potentially significant decrease in revenue by restricting MIS from
continuing to rate issuers that currently pay for ratings and in particular frequent issuers. Compliance with the amended regulations may also increase costs of operations.

In addition to the foregoing, in the wake of the credit crisis, legislative and regulatory bodies in both the US and in other countries have adopted or are studying or pursuing new laws and regulations addressing
CRAs and the use of credit ratings, particularly in the area of structured finance securities, and the role of CRAs leading up to the credit crisis.



18MOODY’S2011 10-K




Moody’s believes that there is still the potential for additional rulemaking that can significantly impact
Moody’s business. It is likely that other jurisdictions will adopt additional laws or regulations affecting Moody’s operations or the markets for its products and services. This could include adopting regulations that affect the need for
debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings. However, Moody’s cannot predict the extent of the regulations that may be implemented, or the effect that they may
have on Moody’s operations or the potential for increased exposure to liability.

Exposure to Litigation Related to Moody’s Rating
Opinions

Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global Capital Markets and Changes in Interest Rates and Other Volatility in the Financial Markets

Approximately 58% of MIS’s revenue for 2011 was transaction-based, compared to 57% of MIS’s revenue in 2010 and 50% of MIS’s revenue in 2009. Revenue
from rating transactions is dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Accordingly, any conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers’ willingness or ability
to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which MIS provides ratings services and thereby have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings.

A significant disruption in world financial markets, particularly in the credit markets, began in mid-2007, when many credit markets experienced a severe lack of
liquidity. This disruption continues to adversely affect our business as the markets struggle to recover. Credit market disruptions, including those resulting from the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, together with the persistent economic slowdown
have negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. Future debt issuances could be negatively affected by a sharp increase in long-term interest rates or factors which cause
instability or volatility in the global capital markets, such as the recent credit market disruptions resulting from the sovereign debt crises in certain European countries. New debt issuances in the structured finance market are likely to continue
to be significantly below peak levels reached in the middle of the past decade. Consequently, the Company has experienced a reduction in the overall demand for rating newly issued debt securities. Changes in the markets for such securities and in
the role and regulation of rating agencies may materially adversely affect the Company even if the volume of securities issuances in all sectors recovers to or exceeds those experienced prior to 2007.

The timing, nature, extent and sustainability of any recovery in the credit and other financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that
overall market conditions will improve in the future, or that Moody’s financial results will not continue to be



MOODY’S2011 10-K19




adversely affected. A sustained period of market decline or weakness, especially if it relates to credit sensitive securities, for which there was historically a high level of demand for ratings,
could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business and financial results. Initiatives that the Company has undertaken to reduce costs may not be sufficient and further cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the near
term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the Company’s operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. Further, the cost-reduction initiatives undertaken to date could result
in strains in the Company’s operations if the credit markets and demand for ratings in all sectors return to levels that prevailed prior to mid-2007 or otherwise unexpectedly increase. Other factors that could further reduce investor demand for
debt securities or reduce issuers’ willingness or ability to issue such securities include increases in interest rates or credit spreads, continued volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant regulatory,
political or economic events, the use of alternative sources of credit including financial institutions and government sources, defaults of significant issuers and other unfavorable market and economic conditions.

Furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as
financial advisors, rather than traditional credit rating agencies, such as MIS. Changing regulatory considerations and other market developments could negatively affect the demand for credit ratings even if debt security issuances and activities
increase. As such, no assurance can be given as to the amount of revenues that may be derived therefrom.

Legal, Economic and Regulatory Risks of
Operating in Foreign Jurisdictions

Moody’s maintains offices outside the U.S. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from sources
outside the U.S. In addition to the regulatory risks discussed above, operations in different countries expose Moody’s to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into U.S.
dollars and currency fluctuations; the costs of repatriating cash held by entities outside the U.S., U.S. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; different
legal or civil liability standards, political and economic instability; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting
receivables; and potentially adverse tax consequences.

As Moody’s derives a significant portion of its revenue from sources outside the U.S.,
Moody’s business also is subject to changes in the economic condition of the various economies outside the U.S. in which it operates. For example, economic developments in the European zone, which is presently experiencing a degree of economic
uncertainty, or in Southeast Asia could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken within the particular area, which, in turn, could affect Moody’s business.

In addition to competition from other rating agencies that
operate in a number of international jurisdictions and specialized companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as A.M. Best Company, Inc., with respect to the insurance industry), in many foreign
countries MIS competes with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence and greater familiarity or a longer operating history in those markets. These local providers or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive
support from local governments or other institutions that MIS does not receive, putting MIS at a competitive disadvantage.

Increased Pricing
Pressure from Competitors and/or Customers

In the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition for customers and
market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service, as well as increased competition from non-NRSROs that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. At the same time, bankruptcies and
consolidation of customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of customers. While Moody’s seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its
products and service, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with



20MOODY’S2011 10-K




its current and future competitors, Moody’s may lose market share. In addition, one of the central goals of the Reform Act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. The formation
of additional NRSROs may increase pricing, as well as other competitive pressures.

Exposure to Reputational and Credibility Concerns

Moody’s reputation is one of the key bases on which the Company competes. To the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or
Moody’s, relative to its competitors, has suffered a loss in credibility in the course of the credit crisis, or, in the future, suffers a loss in credibility, Moody’s business could be adversely affected. Factors that may have already
affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes
in ratings, adverse publicity as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities, a major compliance failure, publicity associated with ongoing litigation and new laws and regulations and increased criticism by
users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies. These concerns may be disclosed or highlighted in the course of various investigations or lawsuits that have been or may be instituted, through legislative or regulatory hearings or special
studies that are mandated by legislation, or through journalists or others attempting to chronicle or report on the recent credit crisis. Operational errors, whether by Moody’s or a Moody’s competitor, could harm the reputation of the
credit rating industry and adversely affect Moody’s business.

Introduction of Competing Products or Technologies by Other Companies

The markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are highly competitive. The ability to provide innovative products
and technologies that anticipate customers’ changing requirements and to utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. Competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing
credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by Moody’s, or may price or market their products in manners that differ
from those utilized by Moody’s. Customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. Such developments could affect demand for Moody’s products and its growth prospects. In addition, Moody’s
growth prospects also could be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved
by competitors.

Significant Amount of Intangible Assets

Moody’s has a significant amount of intangible assets on its balance sheet consisting of $642.9 million of goodwill and $253.6 million of amortizable intangible assets. Approximately 99% of these intangibles
reside in the MA business and are allocated to the five reporting units within MA: RD&A; RMS; Training, CSI, and Copal. Failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in one or all of these reporting units could result in an
asset impairment charge which would reduce net income in the period the impairment is recorded. Impairment of goodwill or intangibles would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. An impairment would be recorded if the fair value of a
reporting unit or asset group which holds goodwill or any intangible assets is less than the carrying amount of its net assets. A significant factor in the determination of the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group is its projected cash
flows. Future cash flows of MA are dependent on a variety of factors such as, but not limited to, general economic growth, capital market activity, product innovation, pricing, market share and competition. Changes in these factors or in the conduct
of Moody’s operations in response to such factors could lead to reduced cash flows resulting in an asset impairment charge.

Possible Loss of
Key Employees and Related Compensation Cost Pressures

Moody’s success depends in part upon recruiting, retaining and motivating highly
skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. Competition for qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and Moody’s ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive
compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. Investment banks, investors and competitors may
seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering higher compensation than Moody’s. Moody’s also may not be able to identify and hire employees in some markets outside the U.S. with the required
experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis.

The Trading Price of Moody’s Stock Could be Affected by Third Party Actions

Ownership of Moody’s stock is highly concentrated with a majority of shares held by a few institutional stockholders. Due to this
concentrated stockholder base, the trading price of Moody’s stock could be affected considerably by actions of significant stockholders to increase or decrease their positions in Moody’s stock.



MOODY’S2011 10-K21




Moody’s Operations and Infrastructure may Malfunction or Fail



