ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be
carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems minor or
insignificant also may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks occur, Moody’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. These risk factors should be read in
conjunction with the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K.

U.S. Laws and Regulations Affecting the Credit Rating Industry are Rapidly Evolving
and May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business

Moody’s operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to
extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S., including the Reform Act and the Financial Reform Act. These regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. See
“Regulation” in Part 1, Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information. These laws and regulations:



»seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among rating agencies and in the credit rating business;



»may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings;



»restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings;



»increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and CRA operations;



»provide for direct jurisdiction of the SEC over CRAs that seek NRSRO status, and grant authority to the SEC to inspect the operations of CRAs; and



»authorize the adoption of enhanced oversight standards and new pleading standards, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities
and aggregate legal defense costs.

Financial Reforms Outside the U.S. Affecting the Credit
Rating Industry May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business

In addition to the extensive and evolving U.S. laws and
regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. In particular, the EU has adopted a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the
EU, and introduced a common EU regulatory approach to oversight of CRAs. The EU has established conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules on the organization and conduct of CRAs—including restrictions on certain activities deemed to
create a conflict of interest—and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. ESMA has direct supervisory authority for CRAs in the EU.

MIS is a registered entity and is therefore subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection. Applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings
of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation requirements of CRAs hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, restrictions on CRAs or their
shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed, and additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services.



MOODY’S2015 10K17




EU financial reforms could have a significant negative effect on Moody’s operations, profitability or ability to
compete, or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that Moody’s presently is unable to predict. In particular, exposure to increased liability under the EU regulations may further increase costs and legal risks associated
with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact Moody’s results of operations. In addition, compliance with the amended EU regulations may increase costs of operations.

The EU and other jurisdictions are engaged in ongoing rulemaking that could significantly impact operations or the markets for Moody’s products and services,
including regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, establishing criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings. In January 2015, two additional rules (generally referred to as
“Regulatory Technical Standards” or “RTSs”) of direct relevance to the CRA industry were published in the Official Journal of the European Union: (i) CRAs’ reporting requirements to ESMA on their fees; and (ii) the
types of information that CRAs are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by ESMA (the European Ratings Platform). Separately, CRA3 also requires that ESMA and / or
the European Commission produce several reports, which have not yet been completed, on the industry’s structure and the use of ratings. Moody’s cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will
have on Moody’s business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. Financial reforms in the EU and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and
financial condition.

The Company Faces Exposure to Litigation and Government Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations and Inquiries Related to Rating Opinions
and Other Business Practices

The Company is Exposed to Legal, Economic and Regulatory Risks of Operating in Multiple Jurisdictions

Moody’s conducts operations in various countries outside the U.S. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. Changes in the economic
condition of the various foreign economies in which the Company operates may have an impact on the Company’s business. For example, economic uncertainty in the Eurozone or elsewhere could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken
within those particular areas. In addition, operations abroad expose Moody’s to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as:



»exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and USD;



»restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into USD and the costs, including the tax impact, of repatriating cash held by entities outside the U.S.;



»U.S. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers;



»differing legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards;



»current and future regulations relating to the imposition of mandatory rotation requirements on CRAs hired by issuers of securities;



»uncertain and evolving laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries;



»economic, political and geopolitical market conditions;



»the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions;



18MOODY’S2015 10K




»competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions;



»reduced protection for intellectual property rights;



»longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables;



»differing accounting principles and standards;



»difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; and



»potentially adverse tax consequences.

Additionally, Moody’s is subject to complex U.S. and foreign laws and
regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. Although the Company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and
compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. Any
determination that the Company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations
that apply to the Company’s international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Violations of such laws and regulations may result in severe fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies,
restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition.

Moody’s Operations and Infrastructure May Malfunction or Fail

The Company is Exposed to Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Protection of Confidential
Information



MOODY’S2015 10K19




Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global Capital Markets and Changes in Interest
Rates and Other Volatility in the Financial Markets May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business

Moody’s business is
impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets. Furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional
parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional CRAs, such as MIS. A majority of Moody’s credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities
issued in the capital markets. Market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. Conditions that reduce
issuers’ ability or willingness to issue debt securities, such as market volatility, declining growth, currency devaluations or other adverse economic trends, reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which
Moody’s provides ratings services and thereby adversely affect the fees we earn in our ratings business.

Economic and government factors such as a long-term
continuation of difficult economic conditions and a worsening of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. Future debt issuances also could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates,
widening credit spreads, regulatory and political developments, growth in the use of alternative sources of credit, and defaults by significant issuers. Declines or other changes in the markets for debt securities may materially and adversely affect
the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition.

Moody’s initiatives to reduce costs to counteract a decline in its business may not be
sufficient and cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the Company’s operations as well as the need to monitor
outstanding ratings. Further, cost-reduction initiatives, including those undertaken to date, could make it difficult for the Company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the demand for ratings. Volatility
in the financial markets, including changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition, which the Company may not be able to
successfully offset with cost reductions.

The Company Faces Increased Pricing Pressure from Competitors and/or Customers

The Company is Exposed to Reputation and
Credibility Concerns

Moody’s reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. To the extent that the rating agency business as a
whole or Moody’s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, Moody’s business could be significantly impacted. Factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this
regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and
increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities. Operational errors, whether by Moody’s or a Moody’s competitor,
could also harm the reputation of the Company or the credit rating industry. Damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

The Introduction of Competing Products or Technologies by Other Companies May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business

The markets for credit ratings, research, credit risk management services, outsourced research and analytical services and financial training and certification services
are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. The ability to develop and successfully launch and maintain innovative products and technologies that anticipate
customers’ changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share.



20MOODY’S2015 10K




The Company Has a Significant Amount of Intangible Assets

At December 31, 2015, Moody’s had $976.3 million of goodwill and $299.1 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet. Approximately 70% of these
intangibles reside in the MA business and are allocated to the four reporting units within MA: RD&A; ERS; Financial Services Training and Certifications; and Copal Amba. The remaining 30% of these intangibles reside in MIS and primarily relate
to ICRA. Failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in an asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. Goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite lives are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be especially difficult in periods of
market or economic uncertainty and turmoil, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. In addition, the potential for goodwill impairment is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. An asset impairment charge could have a
material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

Possible Loss of Key Employees and Related Compensation Cost
Pressures May Negatively Impact the Company

Moody’s success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced
financial analysts and other professionals. Competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and Moody’s ability to attract high quality employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive
compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing industries. As greater focus has been placed on executive compensation at
public companies, in the future, Moody’s may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. Investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to
attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than Moody’s. Moody’s also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in
some markets outside the U.S. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. There is a risk that even if the Company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, it
will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed.

Moody’s is highly dependent on the continued services of Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., the
President and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior officers and key employees. The loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and Moody’s inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well as any
negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

Moody’s Acquisitions and Other Strategic Transactions May Not Produce Anticipated Results

Moody’s has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen its business and grow the Company. Such
transactions present significant challenges and risks. The market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect Moody’s ability to complete such
transactions. If Moody’s is unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

If such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth, synergies and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of
factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. Any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including unanticipated challenges regarding integration of operations, technologies and new employees; the
existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by the Company prior to closing a transaction; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business;
diverting management’s focus from other business operations; and failing to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such
controls, procedures and policies. The



MOODY’S2015 10K21




anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. As a result, the failure of acquisitions and other
strategic transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition.

The
Company’s Compliance and Risk Management Programs Might Not be Effective and May Result in Outcomes That Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Reputation, Financial Condition and Operating Results.

Moody’s operates in a number of countries, and as a result the Company is required to comply with numerous international and U.S. federal, state and local laws and
regulations. The Company’s ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of compliance, review and reporting systems, as well as its ability to
attract and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. Moody’s policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the Company’s risks may not be fully effective, and Moody’s employees or agents may engage in
misconduct, fraud or other errors. It is not always possible to deter such errors, and the precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. If Moody’s employees violate its policies or if the
Company’s risk management methods are not effective, the Company could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer harm to the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.

Legal Protections for the Company’s Intellectual Property Rights may not be Sufficient or Available to Protect the Company’s Competitive Advantages.

Moody’s considers many aspects of its products and services to be proprietary. Failure to protect the Company’s intellectual property adequately
could harm its reputation and affect the Company’s ability to compete effectively. In addition, the Company’s operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual
property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. On January 6, 2015, a rule with direct relevance to the CRA industry was published in the Official Journal of the European Union regarding the types of information that CRAs are
to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by ESMA (the European Ratings Platform). This rule directly relates to the Company’s intellectual property as it would
require that the Company provide proprietary information at no cost that the Company currently sells, which could result in lost revenue.

Additionally, despite the
Company’s efforts to protect its intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may try to obtain and use technology or other information that the Company regards as proprietary. It is also possible that Moody’s competitors or
other entities could obtain patents related to the types of products and services that Moody’s offers, and attempt to require Moody’s to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to modify or redesign the products or services
to avoid infringing, or to obtain licenses from the holders of the patents in order to continue developing and marketing the products and services. Even if Moody’s attempts to assert or protect its intellectual property rights through
litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that the Company will be successful.

The Company is
Dependent on the Use of Third-Party Software, Data, Hosted Solutions, Data Centers, and Network Infrastructure(Together, “Third Party Technology”), and Any Reduction in Third-Party Product Quality
or Service Offerings, Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations.

Moody’s relies
on Third Party Technology in connection with its product development and offerings. The Company depends on the ability of Third Party Technology providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products
on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. The Third Party Technology Moody’s uses may become obsolete, incompatible with future versions of the Company’s products,
unavailable or fail to operate effectively, and Moody’s business could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to timely or effectively replace such Third Party Technology. The Company also monitors its use of Third Party Technology to
comply with applicable license and other contractual requirements. Despite the Company’s efforts, the Company cannot assure that such third parties will permit Moody’s use in the future, resulting in increased Third Party Technology
acquisition costs and loss of rights. In addition, the Company’s operating costs could increase if license or other usage fees for Third Party Technology increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to Third Party Technology are
substantial. Some of these third-party suppliers are also Moody’s competitors, increasing the risks noted above. If any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or
results of operations.

Changes in tax rates or tax rules could affect future results.

As a global company, Moody’s is subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries and jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine
worldwide tax liabilities. Moody’s future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates or other factors, including by increased earnings in jurisdictions where we face
higher tax rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, policies and
administrative practices, or changes to their interpretation or enforcement, including changes applicable to multinational corporations such as the Base Erosion Profit Shifting project being conducted by the Organization for Economic Co-operation
and Development and the European Union’s



22MOODY’S2015 10K




state aid rulings, could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Moody’s is subject to regular examination of
our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and we have experienced increased scrutiny as business has grown. Moody’s regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from
these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, however, developments in an audit or litigation could materially and adversely affect us. Although we believe our tax estimates and accruals are reasonable, there can be
no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.

The Company’s aggregate cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.2 billion at December 31, 2015 consisted of approximately $1.5 billion
located outside of the U.S. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, Moody’s does not provide for U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed
earnings indefinitely in our foreign operations. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate
could be adversely affected.



