ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The following risk factors and other
information included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or
that the Company’s management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks occur, Moody’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially
adversely affected.

Laws and Regulations Affecting the Credit Rating Industry are Rapidly Evolving and May Negatively Impact the Nature and
Economics of the Company’s Business

Credit rating agencies are regulated in both the U.S. and in other countries (including by state and
local authorities). Over the past few years, many jurisdictions have adopted or proposed new laws and regulations that impact the operation of credit rating agencies and the markets for securities that are rated. Additional laws and regulations have
been proposed or are being considered, and further legislation or regulation may be proposed or implemented in the future. Some of the more prominent developments are discussed below or under the section entitled “Regulation” in Part I,
Item 1 of this Form 10-K. These laws and regulations are intended to cause, or may result in, increased competition in the credit rating business. In addition, these laws or regulations may cause or result in (i) alternatives to credit ratings,
(ii) regulations or restrictions on how information is used in the development or maintenance of credit ratings, (iii) increased regulatory oversight of the credit markets and credit rating agency operation, or (iv) changes in the pricing of
credit ratings. All of these items could result in an increase in costs that Moody’s may not be able to pass through to customers and a decrease in the demand for or changes in the use of credit ratings.

New pleading and liability standards that have been adopted in the U.S. and proposed elsewhere potentially subject credit rating agencies to a greater number of
legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities, could result in such legal proceedings continuing for a greater period of time before being resolved, and could result in increased uncertainty over and
exposure to liability of credit rating agencies. As new laws and regulations applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies rapidly evolve, the costs of compliance is expected to increase, and Moody’s may not be able to pass on these costs
through the pricing of its services. In addition, there may be greater uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of new laws and regulations, which may increase compliance costs and increase the possibility of fines, penalties or
other sanctions (including restrictions on activities) being imposed.

In the U.S., MIS is designated as an NRSRO pursuant to SEC regulations adopted under the Reform Act. One of the central tenets of the Reform Act was to encourage
competition among rating agencies. The Reform Act established standards for the SEC to have direct jurisdiction over credit rating agencies that seek NRSRO status and to inspect their operations.

In the U.S., one of the tenets of the recently enacted Financial Reform Act is that credit rating agencies perform a “gatekeeper” role and should be
subject to enhanced oversight standards that could result in enhanced liability. The Financial Reform Act amends a number of laws and regulations, requires the SEC to adopt a number of rules affecting rating agencies and the use of credit ratings,
especially in structured finance markets, and authorizes a number of studies relating to the operations and legal standards applicable to CRAs. Provisions of the Financial Reform Act and other rules that may be adopted by the SEC in furtherance of
the Financial Reform Act that pose risks to the Company’s business include, among others:



•heightened compliance standards;



•increased disclosure obligations;



•provisions seeking to diminish regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings;



MOODY’S2010 10-K17




•rules potentially mandating disclosure of sensitive issuer information provided to CRAs for the purpose of developing a rating;



•a mandate that the SEC study the feasibility of establishing a system in which a utility or a self-regulatory organization assigns NRSROs to determine the credit
ratings of structured finance products to address so-called “rating-shopping” by issuers and underwriters of structured financial products; and



•changes to the pleading standards and, by repealing Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act, the liability standards under the federal securities laws if a CRA
consents to have a rating included in a registration statement or prospectus.

In addition, in October 2009, the SEC proposed a rule providing that, if credit ratings are used in connection with an offering
of any other type of security that is registered under the Securities Act (which as proposed would include use of a credit rating for certain unregistered securities offerings that are subsequently subject to a registered exchange offer), the
ratings must be included in the registration statement. If adopted, this proposal, coupled with the Financial Reform Act’s rescission of Rule 436(g), would mean that common practices used in the U.S. to market and sell securities in such
offerings would have to be altered unless MIS or other credit rating agencies consented to subject themselves to expert liability provisions of the Securities Act with respect to their credit ratings. Adoption of this or a similar rule could impact
the volume of securities sold in such offerings, demand for MIS’s ratings, the pricing structure for ratings issued by MIS and/or Moody’s exposure to liability and could have other effects that Moody’s is not able to predict, any of
which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.

Both the G-8 and the G-20 have sought to analyze and arrive at a consistent
approach for addressing the various areas of the financial market and have made a variety of recommendations as to regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. Specifically, the G-20 has also agreed to require the registration of
rating agencies in their home jurisdiction. As a result of the internationally coordinated approach, countries other than the U.S. (which as noted above had already adopted a registration regime for NRSROs) have begun the process of implementing
registration regimes for the oversight of CRAs. In particular, the EU adopted a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the EU. The regulation seeks to introduce a common EU regulatory approach to the oversight of CRAs. Its primary
objective is to enhance the integrity, transparency, responsibility, governance and reliability of credit rating activities, by establishing conditions for the issuance of credit ratings and rules on the organization and conduct of credit rating
agencies, including restrictions on certain activities that are deemed to create a conflict of interest and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. The regulation became fully effective on September 6, 2010. MIS
applied for registration in August 2010.

In addition, the European Securities and Market Authority has been formed which is expected to be fully
operational in June 2011 and will have direct supervisory authority for CRAs in the EU.

The European Commission has also published a consultation paper
that discusses:



•the potential for increasing the liability or changing the basis of liability of CRAs for their ratings;



•the issuer-pay CRA business model;



•amending existing regulations to reduce reliance on ratings by governments and regulated industries;



•proposed changes to the business model associated with the rating of sovereigns; and



•increasing competition among CRAs;

The EU
Parliament is working on its own report discussing a number of these issues.



18MOODY’S2010 10-K




The foregoing initiatives, if implemented and depending on their terms, could negatively impact Moody’s
operations or profitability, ability to compete or the markets for its products and services in ways that Moody’s presently is unable to predict. In particular, exposure to increased liability under future EU regulation may further increase
costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely affect Moody’s results of operations.

In addition
to the foregoing, in the wake of the credit crisis, legislative and regulatory bodies in both the U.S. and in other countries have adopted or are studying or pursuing new laws and regulations addressing CRAs and the use of credit ratings,
particularly in the area of structured finance securities, and the role of CRAs leading up to the credit crisis.

Moody’s believes that there is
still the potential for additional rulemaking that can significantly impact Moody’s business. It is likely that other jurisdictions will adopt additional laws or regulations affecting Moody’s operations or the markets for its products and
services. This could include adopting regulations that affect the need for debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings. However, Moody’s cannot predict the
extent of the regulations that may be implemented, or the effect that they may have on Moody’s operations or the potential for increased exposure to liability.

Exposure to Litigation Related to Moody’s Rating Opinions

In addition, as discussed above, the Financial
Reform Act revised pleading and liability standards and other provisions potentially subjecting CRAs to increased liability under securities law claims. The Financial Reform Act and regulations that will be adopted as a result of it may result in a
material increase in the number of legal proceedings, especially as related to future ratings, and, together with judicial decisions under the Financial Reform Act and under pre-existing legal standards, may increase the potential legal exposure of
CRAs. Changes in liability standards applicable in markets outside the U.S. also could create a greater potential for liability from operating in such markets. The Company believes that adoption of these provisions could negatively impact credit
markets, including causing CRAs to cease to issue ratings on certain securities or issuers, increasing the cost of ratings, delaying issuances of ratings and restricting the public availability of ratings, which changes could materially negatively
impact the Company’s business and prospects. It is possible that implementing changes to the Company’s operations to address the changed pleading and liability standards may result in lower revenues and/or increased expenses that the
Company may not be able to recoup or offset, which could be material, and the Company may not be successful in avoiding or mitigating the impact of the heightened or changed pleading and liability standards.

Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global Capital Markets and Changes in Interest Rates and Other Volatility in the Financial
Markets

Approximately 57% of MIS’s revenue for 2010 was transaction-based, compared to 50% of MIS’s revenue in 2009 and 49% of
MIS’s revenue in 2008. Revenue from rating transactions is dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Accordingly, any conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce
issuers’ willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which MIS provides ratings services and thereby have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of
ratings.

A significant disruption in world financial markets, particularly in the credit markets, began in mid-2007, when many credit markets
experienced a severe lack of liquidity. This disruption continues to be felt as the markets gradually recover. Credit market disruptions together with an economic slowdown have negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global
capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. Notwithstanding a strong increase in debt issuances in the corporate, financial institutions and U.S. public finance sectors in 2010, future debt issuances could be negatively affected by a sharp
increase in long-term interest rates or factors which cause instability or volatility in the global capital markets. New debt issuances in the structured finance market are likely to con-



MOODY’S2010 10-K19




tinue to be significantly below peak levels reached in the middle of the past decade. Consequently, the Company has experienced a reduction in the overall demand for rating newly issued debt
securities. Changes in the markets for such securities and in the role and regulation of rating agencies may materially adversely affect the Company even if the volume of securities issuances in all sectors recovers to or exceeds those experienced
prior to 2007.

Furthermore, issuers of debt securities may
elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional credit rating agencies, such as MIS. Changing regulatory considerations and other
market developments could negatively affect the demand for credit ratings even if debt security issuances and activities increase. As such, no assurance can be given as to the amount of revenues that may be derived therefrom.

Legal, Economic and Regulatory Risks of Operating in Foreign Jurisdictions

Moody’s maintains offices outside the U.S. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from sources outside the U.S. In addition to the regulatory risks discussed above, operations in different countries
expose Moody’s to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and currency fluctuations; U.S. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign
export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; political and economic instability; the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; longer payment cycles and possible
problems in collecting receivables; and potentially adverse tax consequences.

In addition to competition from other rating agencies that
operate in a number of international jurisdictions and specialized companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as A.M. Best Company, Inc., with respect to the insurance industry), in many foreign
countries MIS competes with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence and greater familiarity or a longer operating history in those markets. These local providers or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive
support from local governments or other institutions that MIS does not receive, putting MIS at a competitive disadvantage.

Increased Pricing
Pressure from Competitors and/or Customers

In the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition for customers and
market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service, as well as increased competition from non-NRSROs that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. At the same time, bankruptcies and
consolidation of customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of customers. While Moody’s seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its
products and service, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors, Moody’s may lose market share. In addition, one of the central goals of the Reform Act was to encourage competition
among rating agencies. The formation of additional NRSROs may increase pricing, as well as other competitive pressures.



20MOODY’S2010 10-K




Exposure to Reputational and Credibility Concerns

Moody’s reputation is one of the key bases on which the Company competes. To the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or Moody’s, relative to
its competitors, has suffered a loss in credibility in the course of the credit crisis, or, in the future, suffers a loss in credibility, Moody’s business could be adversely affected. Factors that may have already affected credibility and could
potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities by a particular rating agency, the timing and nature of changes
in ratings, adverse publicity as to the ratings process, a major compliance failure, publicity associated with ongoing litigation and new laws and regulations and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies. These
concerns may be disclosed or highlighted in the course of various investigations or lawsuits that have been or may be instituted, through legislative or regulatory hearings or special studies that are mandated by legislation, or through journalists
or others attempting to chronicle or report on the recent credit crisis.

Introduction of Competing Products or Technologies by Other Companies

The markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are highly competitive. The ability to provide innovative products
and technologies that anticipate customers’ changing requirements and to utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. Competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing
credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by Moody’s, or may price or market their products in manners that differ
from those utilized by Moody’s. Customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. Such developments could affect demand for Moody’s products and its growth prospects. In addition, Moody’s
growth prospects also could be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved
by competitors.

Significant Amount of Intangible Assets

Moody’s has a significant amount of intangible assets on its balance sheet consisting of $465.5 million of goodwill and $168.8 million of amortizable intangible assets. Approximately 98% of these intangibles
reside in the MA business and are allocated to the four reporting units within MA: RD&A; RMS; Training, and CSI. Failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in one or all of these reporting units could result in an asset
impairment charge which would reduce net income in the period the impairment is recorded. Impairment of goodwill or intangibles would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. An impairment would be recorded if the fair value of a reporting
unit or asset group which holds goodwill or any intangible assets is less than the carrying amount of its net assets. A significant factor in the determination of the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group is its projected cash flows. Future
cash flows of MA are dependent on a variety of factors such as, but not limited to, general economic growth, capital market activity, product innovation, pricing, market share and competition. Changes in these factors or in the conduct of
Moody’s operations in response to such factors could lead to reduced cash flows resulting in an asset impairment charge.

Possible Loss of Key
Employees and Related Compensation Cost Pressures

Moody’s success depends in part upon recruiting, retaining and motivating highly skilled,
experienced financial analysts and other professionals. Competition for qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and Moody’s ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and
other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. Investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract
analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering higher compensation than Moody’s. Moody’s also may not be able to identify and hire employees in some markets outside the U.S. with the required experience or skills
to perform sophisticated credit analysis.

The Trading Price of Moody’s Stock Could be Affected by Third Party Actions

Ownership of Moody’s stock is highly concentrated with a majority of shares held by a few institutional stockholders. Due to this concentrated stockholder
base, the trading price of Moody’s stock could be affected considerably by actions of significant stockholders to increase or decrease their positions in Moody’s stock.

Moody’s Operations and Infrastructure may Malfunction or Fail

Moody’s ability to conduct
business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which Moody’s is located, including having its headquarters in New York City and offices in major cities worldwide.
This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications or other services used by the Company or third parties with or through whom Moody’s conducts business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss,
telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. Moody’s efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of major operating systems may not be
successful. The Company does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. If a disruption occurs in one of
Moody’s locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, their ability to service and



MOODY’S2010 10-K21




interact with Moody’s clients and customers may suffer. The Company’s operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in
its computer systems and networks. The business relies upon and processes a great deal of data through its systems, the quality of which must be maintained in order for the business units to perform. Protective measures that Moody’s takes may
be circumvented or may not be sufficient to guard its computer systems, software and networks from unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this could
jeopardize Moody’s or its clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, its computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the
Company’s, its clients’, its counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. Moody’s may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities
or other exposures, and the Company may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by Moody’s.



