ITEM 1.BUSINESS

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Zions Bancorporation (“the Parent”) is a financial holding company organized under the laws of the State of Utah
in 1955, and registered under the BHC Act, as amended. The Parent and its subsidiaries (collectively “the Company”) own and operate eight commercial banks with a total of 486 domestic branches at year-end 2011. The Company provides a full
range of banking and related services through its banking and other subsidiaries, primarily in Utah, California, Texas, Arizona, Nevada, Colorado, Idaho, Washington, and Oregon. Full-time equivalent employees totaled 10,606 at year-end 2011. For
further information about the Company’s industry segments, see “Business Segment Results” on page 47 in MD&A and Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For information about the Company’s foreign
operations, see “Foreign Operations” on page 46 in MD&A. The “Executive Summary” on page 23 in MD&A provides further information about the Company.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

The Company focuses on providing community banking
services by continuously strengthening its core business lines of 1) small and medium-sized business and corporate banking; 2) commercial and residential development, construction and term lending; 3) retail banking; 4) treasury cash management and
related products and services; 5) residential mortgage; 6) trust and wealth management; and 7) investment activities. It operates eight different banks in ten Western and Southwestern states with each bank operating under a different name and each
having its own board of directors, chief executive officer, and management team. The banks provide a wide variety of commercial and retail banking and mortgage lending products and services. They also provide a wide range of personal banking
services to individuals, including home mortgages, bankcard, other installment loans, home equity lines of credit, checking accounts, savings accounts, time certificates of deposits of various types and maturities, trust services, safe deposit
facilities, direct deposit, and 24-hour ATM access. In addition, certain banking subsidiaries provide services to key market segments through their Women’s Financial, Private Client Services, and Executive Banking Groups. We also offer wealth
management services through various subsidiaries, including Contango and Western National Trust Company, and online and traditional brokerage services through Zions Direct and Amegy Investments.

In addition to these core businesses, the Company has built specialized lines of business in capital markets and public finance, and is a
leader in SBA lending. Through its eight banking subsidiaries, the Company provides SBA 7(a) loans to small businesses throughout the United States and is also one of the largest providers of SBA 504 financing in the nation. The Company owns an
equity interest in Farmer Mac and is one of the nation’s top originators of secondary market agricultural real estate mortgage loans through Farmer Mac. The Company is a leader in municipal finance advisory and underwriting services.

COMPETITION

The Company operates in a highly competitive environment. The Company’s most direct competition for loans and deposits comes from
other commercial banks, credit unions, and thrifts, including institutions that do not have a physical presence in our market footprint but solicit via the Internet and other means. In addition, the Company competes with finance companies, mutual
funds, brokerage firms, securities dealers, investment banking companies, and a variety of other types of companies. Many of these companies have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures or tax burdens.

The primary factors in competing for business include pricing, convenience of office locations and other delivery methods, range of
products offered, and the level of service delivered. The Company must compete effectively along all of these parameters to remain successful.







SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

The banking and financial services business in which we engage is highly regulated. Such regulation is intended, among other things, to improve the stability of banking and financial companies and to
protect the interests of customers, including depositors. These regulations are not, however, generally intended to protect the interests of our shareholders or creditors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations
applicable to the Company. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulations, and in their
application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of the Company.

The Parent is a bank holding company and a financial holding company as provided by the GLB Act. The BHC Act and other federal statutes, as modified by the GLB Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, provide the
regulatory framework for bank holding companies and financial holding companies which have as their umbrella regulator the FRB. The functional regulation of the separately regulated subsidiaries of a bank holding company is conducted by each
subsidiary’s primary functional regulator and the laws and regulations administered by those regulators. The GLB Act allows our bank subsidiaries to engage in certain financial activities through financial subsidiaries. To qualify for and
maintain status as a financial holding company, or to do business through a financial subsidiary, the Parent and its subsidiary banks must satisfy certain ongoing criteria. The Company currently engages in only limited activities for which financial
holding company status is required.

The Parent’s subsidiary banks and WNTC are subject to the provisions of the National
Bank Act or other statutes governing national banks and the banking laws of their various states, as well as the rules and regulations of the OCC, the FRB and the FDIC. They are also under the supervision of, and are continually subject to periodic
examination and supervision by, the OCC or their respective state banking departments, the FRB, and the FDIC. Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB and other federal and state agencies. These bank regulatory
agencies may exert considerable influence over our activities through their supervisory and examination role. Our brokerage and investment advisory subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, FINRA and/or state securities regulators.

The Dodd-Frank Act

The events of the past few years have led to numerous new laws in the United States and internationally for financial institutions. The
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act” or “Dodd-Frank”), which was enacted in July 2010, is one of the most far reaching legislative actions affecting the financial services industry in
decades and significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United States.

The Dodd-Frank Act broadly
affects the financial services industry by creating new resolution authorities, requiring ongoing stress testing of our capital, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, increasing regulation of executive and incentive-based
compensation, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies, and requiring numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. Among other things affecting capital standards, the
Dodd-Frank Act provides that:



•the requirements applicable to large bank holding companies (those with consolidated assets of greater than $50 billion) be more stringent than those
applicable to other financial companies;



•standards applicable to bank holding companies be no less stringent than those applied to insured depository institutions; and



•bank regulatory agencies implement countercyclical elements in their capital requirements.

These provisions will require us to maintain greater levels of capital and liquid assets and will limit the forms of capital that we will
be able to rely upon for regulatory purposes. For example, provisions of the Dodd-







Frank Act require us to deduct all trust preferred securities from our Tier 1 capital over a three-year phase-in period beginning January 1, 2013. In addition, in their supervisory role with
respect to our stress testing and capital planning, the bank regulatory agencies may effectively regulate certain of our capital-related actions, such as dividends and stock repurchases.

The Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions and related regulations also affect the fees we must pay to regulatory agencies and pricing of
certain products and services, including the following:



•The assessment base for federal deposit insurance was changed to consolidated assets less tangible capital instead of the amount of insured deposits.
This generally increased the insurance fees of larger banks, but had relatively less impact on the Company;



•The federal prohibition on the payment of interest on business transaction accounts was repealed effective December 31, 2010; and



•Effective October 1, 2011, the FRB enacted regulations to limit interchange fees charged for debit card transactions to no more than 21 cents per
transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction, which is slightly less than half the generally prevailing fee prior to the regulation.

The Dodd-Frank Act also created the CFPB, which is responsible for promulgating regulations designed to protect consumers’ financial
interests and examining financial institutions for compliance with, and enforcing, those regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act adds prohibitions on unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and practices to the scope of consumer protection regulations overseen
and enforced by the CFPB. The CFPB was recently established and its impact on our subsidiary banks remains uncertain. The Dodd-Frank Act subjected national banks to further regulation by restricting the preemption of state laws by federal laws,
which enabled national banks and their subsidiaries to comply with federal regulatory requirements without complying with various state laws. In addition, the Act gives greater power to state attorneys general to pursue legal actions against banking
organizations for violations of federal law.

The Dodd-Frank Act contains numerous provisions that limit or place significant
burdens and costs on activities traditionally conducted by banking organizations, such as originating and securitizing mortgage loans and other financial assets, arranging and participating in swap and derivative transactions, proprietary trading
and investing in private equity and other funds. For the affected activities, these provisions may result in increased compliance and other costs, increased legal risk and decreased scope of product offerings.

In October 2011 and January 2012, federal regulators published for comment proposed regulations to implement the so-called “Volcker
Rule” of the Dodd-Frank Act, which would significantly restrict certain activities by covered bank holding companies, including restrictions on proprietary trading and private equity investing. The public comment period on these proposed
regulations has ended, but a final rule has not yet been published.

The Company and other companies subject to the Dodd-Frank
Act is being subjected to a number of requirements regarding the time, manner and form of compensation given to its key executives and other personnel receiving incentive compensation, which are being imposed through the supervisory process as well
as published guidance and proposed rules. These requirements generally implement the compensation restrictions imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act and include documentation and governance, deferral, and claw-back requirements.

As discussed further throughout this section, many aspects of Dodd-Frank are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over
several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company or the industry. More than half of the total regulations to implement the Dodd-Frank Act have not yet been published for comment or adopted in final form.

Individually and collectively, these proposed regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may materially adversely affect
the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.







Capital Standards – Basel Framework

The FRB has established capital guidelines for financial holding companies. The OCC, the FDIC, and the FRB have also issued regulations
establishing capital requirements for banks. These bank regulatory agencies’ risk-based capital guidelines are based upon the 1988 capital accord (“Basel I”) of the BCBS. The BCBS is a committee of central banks and bank
supervisors/regulators from the major industrialized countries that develops broad policy guidelines that each country’s supervisors can use to determine the supervisory policies they apply.

In 2004, the BCBS proposed a new capital accord (“Basel II”) to replace Basel I. Basel II provides two approaches for setting
capital standards for credit risk—an advanced internal ratings-based approach tailored to individual institutions’ circumstances and a standardized approach that bases risk weightings on external credit assessments to a much greater extent
than permitted in existing guidelines. Basel II also sets capital requirements for operational risk and refines the existing capital requirements for market risk exposures.

In December 2007, U.S. banking regulators published the final rule for Basel II implementation, requiring banks with over $250 billion in consolidated total assets or on-balance sheet foreign exposure of
$10 billion (core banks) to adopt the advanced approaches of Basel II while allowing other banks to elect to “opt in.” The Parent is not required to comply with Basel II. In July 2008, the agencies issued a proposed rule that would give
banking organizations that do not use the advanced approaches the option to implement a new risk-based capital framework which would adopt the standardized approach of Basel II for credit risk, the basic indicator approach of Basel II for
operational risk and related disclosure requirements. A definitive rule has not been issued.

In December 2010, the BCBS
released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, now officially identified by the BCBS as “Basel III”. Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies and fully phased-in, will require
bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. The Basel III final capital framework, among other things:



•introduces as a new capital measure, Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1), more commonly known in the United States as “Tier 1 Common,” and defines
CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and expands the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations;



•when fully phased in on January 1, 2019, requires banks to maintain:



•as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation
buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%);



•an additional “SIFI buffer” for those large institutions deemed to be systemically important, ranging from 1.0% to 2.5%, and up to 3.5% under
certain conditions; Zions is not subject to this buffer under Basel III, however, some FRB officials have indicated that when U. S. implementing regulations are proposed, they may include an additional buffer of 0% to 1.0% for financial institutions
defined as systemically important under the Dodd-Frank Act but not so deemed by the BCBS;



•a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1
capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation);



•a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is
added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation); and







•as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus
certain off-balance sheet exposures (as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the quarter); and



•provides for an additional “countercyclical capital buffer”, generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate
credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a CET1 add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented.

The implementation of the Basel III final framework is expected to commence January 1, 2013; however, the FRB has not yet released
proposed regulations to implement the Basel III capital framework in the United States. Such proposed regulations are expected in the first half of 2012.

Stress Testing, Prudential Standards, and Early Remediation

In
November 2011, the Company was given instructions requiring its participation in the FRB’s 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, which implemented the Dodd-Frank Act requirement that all bank holding companies with assets greater than
$50 billion be subject to an annual FRB stress test. The Company timely submitted its Capital Plan, pursuant to this process, on January 9, 2012. In this capital plan, the Company was required to forecast under a variety of economic scenarios
for nine quarters ending the fourth quarter of 2013, its estimated regulatory capital ratios under Basel I rules, its Tier 1 common ratio under Basel I rules, the same ratios under Basel III rules, and its GAAP tangible common equity ratio; as
noted, implementing regulations that define how many of these ratios are to be calculated by U.S. institutions have not been published for comment or adopted. Under the implementing regulations, a bank holding company may generally pay dividends and
repurchase stock only under a capital plan as to which the FRB has not objected.

In December 2011, the FRB published new
proposed regulations entitled “Enhanced Prudential Standards and Early Remediation Requirements for Covered Companies,” which if adopted also would apply to all bank holding companies with assets greater than $50 billion. The comment
period on these proposed regulations expires March 31, 2012. These proposed regulations would implement many of the proposed aspects of the Basel III capital and liquidity regime and the Dodd-Frank Act stress test requirements (including public
disclosure of results), and would specify conditions under which a bank holding company would be placed under enhanced nonpublic or public supervision and restrictions. However, the proposed regulations did not specify how Basel III capital ratio
calculations will be defined in the United States. The proposed regulations would also require each covered institution to establish a risk committee of its board of directors that would include a “risk expert”.

Other Regulation

The Company is subject to a wide range of other requirements and restrictions contained in both the laws of the United States and the
states in which its banks and other subsidiaries operate. These regulations include but are not limited to the following:



•Requirements that the Parent serve as a source of strength for its banking subsidiaries. The FRB has had a policy that a bank holding company is
expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its bank subsidiaries and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. The Dodd-Frank Act codifies this policy as a statutory
requirement. In addition, the OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the capital of one of its national bank subsidiaries were to fall below capital levels required by the regulators.



•Limitations on dividends payable by subsidiaries. A substantial portion of the Parent’s cash, which is used to pay dividends on our common and
preferred stock and to pay principal and interest on our debt obligations, is derived from dividends paid by the Parent’s subsidiary banks. These dividends are subject to various legal and regulatory restrictions. See Note 19 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.







•Limitations on dividends payable to shareholders. The Parent’s ability to pay dividends on both its common and preferred stock may be subject to
regulatory restrictions. See “Liquidity Management Actions” on page 85.



•Cross-guarantee requirements. All of the Parent’s subsidiary banks are insured by the FDIC. Each commonly controlled FDIC-insured bank can be held
liable for any losses incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to another commonly controlled FDIC-insured bank being placed into receivership, and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to another commonly controlled
FDIC-insured bank that is subject to certain conditions indicating that receivership is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.



•Safety and soundness requirements. Federal and state laws require that our banks be operated in a safe and sound manner. We are subject to additional
safety and soundness standards prescribed in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporate Improvement Act of 1991, including standards related to internal controls, information systems, internal audit, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest
rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, as well as other operational and management standards deemed appropriate by the federal banking agencies. The safety and soundness requirements give bank regulatory agencies significant latitude in their
supervisory authority over us.



•Requirements for approval of acquisitions and activities. Prior approval of the FRB is required under the BHC Act for a financial holding company to
acquire or hold more than a 5% voting interest in any bank, to acquire substantially all the assets of a bank or to merge with another financial or bank holding company. The BHC Act also requires approval for certain nonbanking acquisitions and
restricts the Company’s nonbanking activities to those that are permitted for financial holding companies or that have been determined by the FRB to be financial in nature, incidental to financial activities, or complementary to a financial
activity. Laws and regulations governing national and state-chartered banks contain similar provisions concerning acquisitions and activities.



•Limitations on the amount of loans to a borrower and its affiliates.



•Limitations on transactions with affiliates. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expands the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate
transactions within a banking organization.



•Restrictions on the nature and amount of any investments and ability to underwrite certain securities.



•Requirements for opening of branches and the acquisition of other financial entities.



•Fair lending and truth in lending requirements to provide equal access to credit and to protect consumers in credit transactions.



•Broker-dealer and investment advisory regulations. Certain of our subsidiaries are broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other
broker-dealer activities. These companies are registered with the SEC and are members of FINRA. Certain other subsidiaries are registered investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and as such are supervised by the
SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business for
failure to comply with such laws.



•Provisions of the GLB Act and other federal and state laws dealing with privacy for nonpublic personal information of individual customers.



•CRA requirements. The CRA requires banks to help serve the credit needs in their communities, including credit to low and moderate income individuals.
If the Company or its subsidiaries fail to adequately serve their communities, penalties may be imposed including denials of applications to add branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and affiliates, and merge with or purchase other financial
institutions.







•Anti-money laundering regulations. The BSA, Title III of the Uniting and Strengthening of America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept
and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (“USA Patriot Act”), and other federal laws require financial institutions to assist U.S. Government agencies in detecting and preventing money laundering and other illegal acts by maintaining policies,
procedures and controls designed to detect and report money laundering, terrorist financing, and other suspicious activity.

The Parent is subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. As a
company listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the Parent is subject to NASDAQ listing standards for quoted companies.

The Company is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act, and other federal and state laws and regulations which
address, among other issues, corporate governance, auditing and accounting, executive compensation, and enhanced and timely disclosure of corporate information. NASDAQ has also adopted corporate governance rules, which are intended to allow
shareholders and investors to more easily and efficiently monitor the performance of companies and their directors.

The Board
of Directors of the Parent has implemented a comprehensive system of corporate governance practices. This system includes Corporate Governance Guidelines, a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees, a Directors Code of Conduct, a Related
Party Transaction Policy, Stock Ownership and Retention Guidelines, an Excessive and Luxury Expenditure Policy, a Compensation Clawback Policy and charters for the Audit, Risk Oversight, Executive Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committees. More information on the Company’s corporate governance practices is available on the Company’s website atwww.zionsbancorporation.com. (The Company’s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.)

The Company has adopted policies, procedures and controls to address compliance with the requirements of the banking,
securities and other laws and regulations described above or otherwise applicable to the Company. The Company intends to make appropriate revisions to reflect any changes required.

Regulators, Congress, state legislatures and international consultative bodies continue to enact rules, laws, and policies to regulate
the financial services industry and public companies and to protect consumers and investors. The nature of these laws and regulations and the effect of such policies on future business and earnings of the Company cannot be predicted.

GOVERNMENT MONETARY POLICIES

The earnings and business of the Company are affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by policies adopted by various governmental authorities. The Company is particularly affected by the
monetary policies of the FRB, which affect both short-term and long-term interest rates and the national supply of bank credit. The tools available to the FRB which may be used to implement monetary policy include:



•open-market operations in U.S. Government and other securities;



•adjustment of the discount rates or cost of bank borrowings from the FRB;



•imposing or changing reserve requirements against bank deposits;



•term auction facilities collateralized by bank loans; and



•other programs to purchase assets and inject liquidity directly in various segments of the economy.

These methods are used in varying combinations to influence the overall growth or contraction of bank loans, investments and deposits,
and the interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits.







In view of the changing conditions in the economy and the effect of the FRB’s monetary
policies, it is difficult to predict future changes in loan demand, deposit levels and interest rates, or their effect on the business and earnings of the Company. FRB monetary policies have had a significant effect on the operating results of
commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future.



