ITEM 1.BUSINESS

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Zions Bancorporation (“the Parent”) is a financial holding company organized under the laws of the State of Utah
in 1955, and registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). The Parent and its subsidiaries (collectively “the Company”) own and operate eight commercial banks with a total of 495 domestic
branches at year-end 2010. The Company provides a full range of banking and related services through its banking and other subsidiaries, primarily in Utah, California, Texas, Arizona, Nevada, Colorado, Idaho, Washington, and Oregon. Full-time
equivalent employees totaled 10,524 at year-end 2010. For further information about the Company’s industry segments, see “Business Segment Results” on page 46 in MD&A and Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
For information about the Company’s foreign operations, see “Foreign Operations” on page 46 in MD&A. The “Executive Summary” on page 23 in MD&A provides further information about the Company.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

The Company focuses on providing community banking services by continuously strengthening its core business lines of 1) small and
medium-sized business and corporate banking; 2) commercial and residential development, construction and term lending; 3) retail banking; 4) treasury cash management and related products and services; 5) residential mortgage; 6) trust and wealth
management; and 7) investment activities. It operates eight different banks in ten Western and Southwestern states with each bank operating under a different name and each having its own board of directors, chief executive officer, and management
team. The banks provide a wide variety of commercial and retail banking and mortgage lending products and services. They also provide a wide range of personal banking services to individuals, including home mortgages, bankcard, other installment
loans, home equity lines of credit, checking accounts, savings accounts, time certificates of deposits of various types and maturities, trust services, safe deposit facilities, direct deposit, and 24-hour ATM access. In addition, certain banking
subsidiaries provide services to key market segments through their Women’s Financial, Private Client Services, and Executive Banking Groups. We also offer wealth management services through a subsidiary, Contango, and online brokerage services
through Zions Direct.

In addition to these core businesses, the Company has built specialized lines of business in capital
markets and public finance, and is a leader in SBA lending. Through its eight banking subsidiaries, the Company provides SBA 7(a) loans to small businesses throughout the United States and is also one of the largest providers of SBA 504 financing in
the nation. The Company owns an equity interest in the Farmer Mac and is one of the nation’s top originators of secondary market agricultural real estate mortgage loans through Farmer Mac. The Company is a leader in municipal finance advisory
and underwriting services.

COMPETITION

The Company operates in a highly competitive environment. The Company’s most direct competition for loans and deposits comes from other commercial banks, thrifts, and credit unions, including
institutions that do not have a physical presence in our market footprint but solicit via the Internet and other means. In addition, the Company competes with finance companies, mutual funds, brokerage firms, securities dealers, investment banking
companies, and a variety of other types of companies. Many of these companies have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures or tax burdens.

The primary factors in competing for business include pricing, convenience of office locations and other delivery methods, range of products offered, and the level of service delivered. The Company must
compete effectively along all of these parameters to remain successful.







SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

The banking and financial services business in which we engage is highly regulated. Such regulation is intended, among other things, to improve the stability of banking and financial companies and to
protect the interests of customers, including depositors. These regulations are not, however, generally charged with protecting the interests of our shareholders or creditors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and
regulations applicable to the Company. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulations, and in
their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of the Company.

The Parent is a bank holding company and a financial holding company as provided by the GLB. The BHC Act, and other federal statutes as modified by the GLB Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, provide the
regulatory framework for bank holding companies and financial holding companies which have as their umbrella regulator the Federal Reserve Board. The functional regulation of the separately regulated subsidiaries of a bank holding company is
conducted by each subsidiary’s primary functional regulator. To qualify for and maintain status as a financial holding company, the Parent and its subsidiary banks must satisfy certain ongoing criteria. The Company currently engages in only
limited activities for which financial holding company status is required.

The Parent’s subsidiary banks are subject to
the provisions of the National Bank Act or other statutes governing national banks and the banking laws of their various states, as well as the rules and regulations of the OCC, the FRB, and the FDIC. They are also under the supervision of, and are
continually subject to periodic examination by, the OCC or their respective state banking departments, the FRB, and the FDIC. Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB and other applicable federal and state agencies.
Our brokerage and investment advisory subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, FINRA and/or state securities regulators.

The Dodd-Frank
Act

The events of the past few years have led to numerous new laws in the United States and internationally for
financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act” or “Dodd-Frank”), which was enacted in July 2010, is one of the most far reaching legislative actions affecting the
financial services industry in decades and significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United States. Among other major things, it creates a new systemic risk oversight body, the FSOC. The FSOC will oversee and coordinate the
efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies (including the FRB, the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the FDIC) in establishing regulations to address financial stability concerns. The Dodd-Frank Act directs the FSOC to
make recommendations to the FRB as to supervisory requirements and heightened prudential standards applicable to large bank holding companies, such as Zions, including capital, leverage, liquidity and risk-management requirements.

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act broadly affects the financial services industry by creating a resolution authority, mandating higher
capital and liquidity requirements and requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies, and through numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. Among other things affecting
capital standards, the Dodd-Frank Act provides that:



•the requirements applicable to large bank holding companies be more stringent than those applicable to other financial companies;



•standards applicable to bank holding companies be no less stringent than those applied to insured depository institutions; and



•bank regulatory agencies implement countercyclical elements in their capital requirements.

These provisions will require us to maintain greater levels of capital and will limit the forms of capital that we will be able to rely
upon for regulatory purposes. For example, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require us







to deduct, over three years beginning July 21, 2011, all trust preferred securities from our Tier 1 capital. Some of the Act’s provisions affecting the fees we must pay to regulatory
agencies and pricing of our products and services include:



•changes in the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to consolidated assets less tangible capital, the
elimination of the ceiling on the size of the DIF and an increase in the floor of the size of the DIF, which will generally increase the amount of assessments for depository institutions;



•a repeal of federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on business transaction accounts; and



•amendments to the EFTA, giving the FRB the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment
card issuers having assets over $10 billion and to enforce a new statutory standard that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer.

The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new CFPB, which will be responsible for promulgating regulations designed to protect consumers’
financial interests and examining financial institutions for compliance with, and enforcing, those regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act will subject national banks to further regulation by restricting the preemption of state laws by federal laws, which
currently enables national banks and their subsidiaries to comply with federal regulatory requirements without complying with various state laws. In addition, the Act gives greater power to state attorneys general to pursue legal actions against
banking organizations for violations of federal law.

As discussed further throughout this section, many aspects of Dodd-Frank
are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company or across the industry.

Capital Standards – Basel Framework

The FRB has established
capital guidelines for financial holding companies. The OCC, the FDIC, and the FRB have also issued regulations establishing capital requirements for banks. These bank regulatory agencies’ risk-based capital guidelines are based upon the 1988
capital accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “BCBS”). The BCBS is a committee of central banks and bank supervisors/regulators from the major industrialized countries that develops broad policy
guidelines that each country’s supervisors can use to determine the supervisory policies they apply.

In 2004, the BCBS
proposed a new capital accord (“Basel II”) to replace Basel I. Basel II provides two approaches for setting capital standards for credit risk – an advanced internal ratings-based approach tailored to individual institutions’
circumstances and a standardized approach that bases risk weightings on external credit assessments to a much greater extent than permitted in existing guidelines. Basel II also sets capital requirements for operational risk and refines the existing
capital requirements for market risk exposures.

In December 2007, U.S. banking regulators published the final rule for Basel
II implementation, requiring banks with over $250 billion in consolidated total assets or on-balance sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion (core banks) to adopt the advanced approaches of Basel II while allowing other banks to elect to “opt
in.” The Parent is not required to comply with the Basel II. In July 2008, the agencies issued a proposed rule that would give banking organizations that do not use the advanced approaches the option to implement a new risk-based capital
framework which would adopt the standardized approach of Basel II for credit risk, the basic indicator approach of Basel II for operational risk and related disclosure requirements. A definitive rule has not been issued.

In December 2010, the BCBS released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, now officially
identified by the BCBS as “Basel III”. Basel III, when implemented by the







U.S. banking agencies and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. The
Basel III final capital framework, among other things:



•introduces as a new capital measure “Common Equity Tier 1”,or “CET1”, which specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1
and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, defines CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and expands the
scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations;



•when fully phased in on January 1, 2019, requires banks to maintain:



•as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation
buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%);



•a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1
capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation);



•a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is
added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation); and



•as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus
certain off-balance sheet exposures (as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the quarter); and



•provides for a “countercyclical capital buffer”, generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit
growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a CET1 add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between 2.5% and 5%).

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking
institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on
dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the short fall.

The implementation of the Basel III
final framework is expected to commence January 1, 2013. On that date, banking institutions will be required to meet the following minimum capital ratios:



•3.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;



•4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and



•8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.

The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets
dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1.
Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 will begin on January 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a five-year period (20% per year). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016
at 0.625% and will be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).







The U.S. banking agencies have indicated informally that they expect to propose regulations
implementing Basel III in mid-2011 with final adoption of implementing regulations in mid-2012. Given that the Basel III rules are subject to change, and the scope and content of capital regulations that the U.S. banking agencies may adopt under
Dodd-Frank is uncertain, we cannot be certain of the impact new capital regulations will have on our capital ratios.

Other Regulation

The Company is subject to a wide range of other requirements and restrictions contained in both the laws of the United States and the states in which its banks and other subsidiaries operate. These
regulations include but are not limited to the following:



•Laws and regulations regarding the availability, requirements and restrictions of a number of recently enacted governmental programs in which the
Company participates. These programs include, without limitation, the TARP and its associated CPP, as well as certain requirements and limitations imposed by the EESA and ARRA and programs and regulations thereunder, including without limitation,
limitations on dividends on common stock in the CPP, and on executive compensation contained in the EESA, ARRA, and the Dodd-Frank Act. One of these programs, the CPP, contains provisions that allow the U.S. Government to unilaterally modify any
term or provision of contracts executed under the program.



•Requirements for approval of acquisitions and activities. Prior approval is required, in accordance with the BHC Act of the FRB, for a financial
holding company to acquire or hold more than a 5% voting interest in any bank. The BHC Act also requires approval for certain nonbanking acquisitions and restricts the Company’s nonbanking activities to those that are permitted for financial
holding companies or that have been determined by the FRB to be financial in nature, incidental to financial activities, or complementary to a financial activity.



•Requirements that the Parent serve as a source of strength for its banking subsidiaries. The FRB has a policy that a bank holding company is expected
to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its bank subsidiaries and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. The Dodd-Frank Act codifies this policy as a statutory requirement.
In addition, the OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the capital of one of its national bank subsidiaries were to fall below capital levels required by the regulators.



•Limitations on dividends payable by subsidiaries. A substantial portion of the Parent’s cash, which is used to pay dividends on our common and
preferred stock and to pay principal and interest on our debt obligations, is derived from dividends paid by the Parent’s subsidiary banks. These dividends are subject to various legal and regulatory restrictions. See Note 19 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.







•Limitations on dividends payable to shareholders. The Parent’s ability to pay dividends on both its common and preferred stock may be subject to
regulatory restrictions. See discussion under “Liquidity Management Actions” on page 80.



•Cross-guarantee requirements. All of the Parent’s subsidiary banks are insured by the FDIC. Each commonly controlled FDIC-insured bank can be held
liable for any losses incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to another commonly controlled FDIC-insured bank being placed into receivership, and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to another commonly controlled
FDIC-insured bank that is subject to certain conditions indicating that receivership is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.



•Safety and soundness requirements. Federal and state laws require that our banks be operated in a safe and sound manner. We are subject to additional
safety and soundness standards prescribed in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporate Improvement Act of 1991, including standards related to internal controls, information systems, internal audit, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest
rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, as well as other operational and management standards deemed appropriate by the federal banking agencies.



•Limitations on the amount of loans to a borrower and its affiliates.



•Limitations on transactions with affiliates. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expands the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate
transactions within a banking organization.



•Restrictions on the nature and amount of any investments and ability to underwrite certain securities.



•Requirements for opening of branches and the acquisition of other financial entities.



•Fair lending and truth in lending requirements to provide equal access to credit and to protect consumers in credit transactions.



•Broker-dealer regulations. Certain of our subsidiaries are broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities.
These companies are registered with the SEC and are members of FINRA.



•Investment advisory regulations. Certain of our subsidiaries are registered investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended,
and as such are supervised by the SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. Federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or
restrict the carrying on of business for failure to comply with such laws.



•Provisions of the GLB Act and other federal and state laws dealing with privacy for nonpublic personal information of individual customers.



•CRA requirements. The CRA requires banks to help serve the credit needs in their communities, including credit to low and moderate income individuals.
If the Company or its subsidiaries fail to adequately serve their communities, penalties may be imposed including denials of applications to add branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and affiliates, and merge with or purchase other financial
institutions.



•Anti-money laundering regulations. BSA and other federal laws require financial institutions to assist U.S. Government agencies to detect and prevent
money laundering. Specifically, the BSA requires financial institutions to keep records of cash purchases of negotiable instruments, file reports of cash transactions exceeding $10,000 (daily aggregate amount), and to report suspicious activity that
might signify money laundering, tax evasion, or other criminal activities. Title III of the Uniting and Strengthening of America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (“USA Patriot Act”)
substantially broadens the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, defining new crimes and related penalties, and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of
the United







States. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued a number of implementing regulations, which apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions. The Company’s bank
and broker-dealer subsidiaries and private investment companies advised or sponsored by the Company’s subsidiaries must comply with these regulations. These regulations also impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate
policies, procedures and controls designed to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing.

The Parent is subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. As a
company listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the Parent is subject to NASDAQ listing standards for quoted companies.

The Company is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which addresses, among other issues, corporate governance, auditing and
accounting, executive compensation, and enhanced and timely disclosure of corporate information. Nasdaq has also adopted corporate governance rules, which are intended to allow shareholders and investors to more easily and efficiently monitor the
performance of companies and their directors.

The Board of Directors of the Parent has implemented a comprehensive system of
corporate governance practices. This system includes Corporate Governance Guidelines, a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees, a Directors Code of Conduct, and charters for the Audit, Credit Review, Compensation, and Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committees. More information on the Company’s corporate governance practices is available on the Company’s website atwww.zionsbancorporation.com. (The Company’s website is not part of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.)

The Company has adopted policies, procedures and controls to address compliance with the requirements
of the banking, securities and other laws and regulations described above or otherwise applicable to the Company. The Company intends to make appropriate revisions to reflect any changes required.

Regulators, Congress, state legislatures and international consultative bodies continue to enact rules, laws, and policies to regulate
the financial services industry and public companies and to protect consumers and investors. The nature of these laws and regulations and the effect of such policies on future business and earnings of the Company cannot be predicted.

GOVERNMENT MONETARY POLICIES

The earnings and business of the Company are affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by policies adopted by various governmental authorities. The Company is particularly affected by the
monetary policies of the FRB, which affect both short-term and long-term interest rates and the national supply of bank credit. The tools available to the FRB which may be used to implement monetary policy include:



•open-market operations in U.S. Government and other securities;



•adjustment of the discount rates or cost of bank borrowings from the FRB;



•imposing or changing reserve requirements against bank deposits;



•term auction facilities collateralized by bank loans; and



•other programs to purchase assets and inject liquidity directly in various segments of the economy.

These methods are used in varying combinations to influence the overall growth or contraction of bank loans, investments and deposits,
and the interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits.

In view of the changing conditions in the economy and the
effect of the FRB’s monetary policies, it is difficult to predict future changes in loan demand, deposit levels and interest rates, or their effect on the business and earnings of the Company. FRB monetary policies have had a significant effect
on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future.







