ITEM 1.BUSINESS

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Zions Bancorporation (“the Parent”) is a financial holding company organized under the laws of the State of Utah in
1955, and registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). The Parent and its subsidiaries (collectively “the Company”) own and operate eight commercial banks with a total of 491 domestic
branches at year-end 2009. The Company provides a full range of banking and related services through its banking and other subsidiaries, primarily in Utah, California, Texas, Arizona, Nevada, Colorado, Idaho, Washington, and Oregon. Full-time
equivalent employees totaled 10,529 at year-end 2009. For further information about the Company’s industry segments, see “Business Segment Results” on page 64 in Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) and
Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For information about the Company’s foreign operations, see “Foreign Operations” on page 63 in MD&A. The “Executive Summary” on page 20 in MD&A provides
further information about the Company.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

The Company focuses on providing community banking services by continuously strengthening its core business lines of 1) small, medium-sized
business and corporate banking; 2) commercial and residential development, construction and term lending; 3) retail banking; 4) treasury cash management and related products and services; 5) residential mortgage; 6) trust and wealth management; and
7) investment activities. It operates eight different banks in ten Western and Southwestern states with each bank operating under a different name and each having its own board of directors, chief executive officer, and management team. The banks
provide a wide variety of commercial and retail banking and mortgage lending products and services. They also provide a wide range of personal banking services to individuals, including home mortgages, bankcard, other installment loans, home equity
lines of credit, checking accounts, savings accounts, time certificates of various types and maturities, trust services, safe deposit facilities, direct deposit, and 24-hour Automated Teller Machine (“ATM”) access. In addition, certain
banking subsidiaries provide services to key market segments through their Women’s Financial, Private Client Services, and Executive Banking Groups. We also offer wealth management services through a subsidiary, Contango Capital Advisors, Inc.
(“Contango”), and online brokerage services through Zions Direct.

In addition to these core businesses, the Company
has built specialized lines of business in capital markets, public finance, and certain financial technologies, and is also a leader in Small Business Administration (“SBA”) lending. Through its eight banking subsidiaries, the Company
provides SBA 7(a) loans to small businesses throughout the United States and is also one of the largest providers of SBA 504 financing in the nation. The Company owns an equity interest in the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (“Farmer
Mac”) and is one of the nation’s top originators of secondary market agricultural real estate mortgage loans through Farmer Mac. The Company is a leader in municipal finance advisory and underwriting services. The Company also controls
four venture capital funds that provide early-stage capital primarily for start-up companies located in the Western United States. Finally, the Company’s NetDeposit subsidiary is a leader in the provision of check imaging and clearing software.

COMPETITION

The Company operates in a highly competitive environment. The Company’s most direct competition for loans and deposits comes from other commercial banks, thrifts, and credit unions, including institutions that do not have a physical
presence in our market footprint but solicit via the Internet and other means. In addition, the Company competes with finance companies, mutual funds, brokerage firms, securities dealers, investment banking companies, financial technology firms, and
a variety of other types of companies. Many of these companies have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures or tax burdens.

The primary factors in competing for business include pricing, convenience of office locations and other delivery methods, range of products offered, and the level of service delivered. The Company must
compete effectively along all of these parameters to remain successful.







SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

The Parent is a bank holding company that has elected to become a financial holding company as provided by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999
(“the GLB Act”). The BHC Act, and other federal statutes as modified by the GLB Act, provide the regulatory framework for bank holding companies and financial holding companies which have as their umbrella regulator the Federal Reserve
Board. The functional regulation of the separately regulated subsidiaries of a holding company is conducted by each subsidiary’s primary functional regulator. To qualify for and maintain status as a financial holding company, the Parent must
satisfy certain ongoing criteria. The Company currently engages in only limited activities for which financial holding company status is required.

The Parent’s subsidiary banks are subject to the provisions of the National Bank Act or other statutes governing national banks and the banking laws of their various states, as well as the rules and
regulations of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the FRB, and the FDIC. They are also under the supervision of, and are continually subject to periodic examination by, the OCC or their respective state banking
departments, the FRB, and the FDIC. Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB and other applicable federal and state agencies. Our brokerage and investment advisory subsidiaries are regulated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”), Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and/or state securities regulators. Our nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the federal government and/or the various
states in which they conduct business.

The Company is subject to various requirements and restrictions contained in both the
laws of the United States and the states in which its banks and other subsidiaries operate. These regulations include but are not limited to the following:



•Laws and regulations regarding the availability, requirements and restrictions of a number of recently enacted governmental programs in which the
Company participates, including without limitation the TARP and its associated CPP, as well as certain requirements and limitations imposed by the EESA and ARRA and programs and regulations thereunder, including without limitation limitations on
dividends on common stock in the CPP, and on executive compensation contained in the EESA and ARRA. One of these programs, the CPP, contains provisions that allow the U.S. Government to unilaterally modify any term or provision of contracts executed
under the program.



•Requirements for approval of acquisitions and activities. Prior approval is required, in accordance with the BHC Act of the FRB, for a financial
holding company to acquire or hold more than 5% voting interest in any bank. The BHC Act allows, subject to certain limitations, interstate bank acquisitions and interstate branching by acquisition anywhere in the country. The BHC Act also requires
approval for certain nonbanking acquisitions and restricts the Company’s nonbanking activities to those that are permitted for financial holding companies or that have been determined by the FRB to be financial in nature, incidental to
financial activities, or complementary to a financial activity.



•Capital requirements. The FRB has established capital guidelines for financial holding companies. The OCC, the FDIC, and the FRB have also issued
regulations establishing capital requirements for banks. U.S. regulatory bodies are expected to issue new capital guidelines for banking organizations. Numerous “white papers,” speeches, and similar documents have been published by both
U.S. and international regulatory bodies, which consistently point toward unspecified, but increased, levels of bank and holding company capital and liquidity. Accordingly, additional capital requirements could be required by new regulations in the
future and could become required of the Company. In addition, there is a risk that the Company may be pressured by regulators to raise capital to enable it to repay the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under TARP at a time or in amounts
that management would not consider optimal. Failure to meet capital requirements could subject the Parent and its subsidiary banks to a variety of restrictions and enforcement remedies. See Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for information regarding capital requirements.

The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies’ risk-based
capital guidelines are based upon the 1988 capital accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “BCBS”). The BCBS is







a committee of central banks and bank supervisors/regulators from the major industrialized countries that develops broad policy guidelines that each country’s supervisors can use to
determine the supervisory policies they apply. The BCBS has been working for a number of years on revisions to Basel I. In December 2007, U.S. banking regulators published the final rule for Basel II implementation, requiring banks with over $250
billion in consolidated total assets or on-balance sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion (core banks) to adopt the Advanced Approach of Basel II while allowing other banks to elect to “opt in.”

Modifications to the Basel II regime (“Basel III”) continue to be proposed. Additionally, regulators may subjectively require
banking organizations to maintain capital, reserves, or liquidity at levels higher than those codified by regulation or those prior to the recent economic crisis. Adoption of new Basel III requirements and/or regulatory actions may have a
significant impact on bank capital and liquidity levels going forward.



•Requirements that the Parent serve as a source of strength for its banking subsidiaries. The FRB has a policy that a bank holding company is expected
to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its bank subsidiaries and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. In addition, the OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the
capital of one of its national bank subsidiaries were to fall below capital levels required by the regulators.



•Limitations on dividends payable by subsidiaries. A substantial portion of the Parent’s cash, which is used to pay dividends on our common and
preferred stock and to pay principal and interest on our debt obligations, is derived from dividends paid by the Parent’s subsidiary banks. These dividends are subject to various legal and regulatory restrictions. See Note 19 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



•Limitations on dividends payable to shareholders. The Parent’s ability to pay dividends on both its common and preferred stock may be subject to
regulatory restrictions. See discussion under “Liquidity Management Actions” starting on page 123.



•Cross-guarantee requirements. All of the Parent’s subsidiary banks are insured by the FDIC. Each commonly controlled FDIC-insured bank can be held
liable for any losses incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to another commonly controlled FDIC-insured bank being placed into receivership, and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to another commonly controlled
FDIC-insured bank that is subject to certain conditions indicating that receivership is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.



•Safety and soundness requirements. Federal and state laws require that our banks be operated in a safe and sound manner. We are subject to additional
safety and soundness standards prescribed in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporate Improvement Act of 1991, including standards related to internal controls, information systems, internal audit, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest
rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, as well as other operational and management standards deemed appropriate by the federal banking agencies.



•Limitations on the amount of loans to a borrower and its affiliates.



•Limitations on transactions with affiliates.



•Restrictions on the nature and amount of any investments and ability to underwrite certain securities.



•Requirements for opening of branches and the acquisition of other financial entities.



•Fair lending and truth in lending requirements to provide equal access to credit and to protect consumers in credit transactions.



•Provisions of the GLB Act and other federal and state laws dealing with privacy for nonpublic personal information of individual customers.







•Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requirements. The CRA requires banks to help serve the credit needs in their communities, including credit
to low and moderate income individuals. Should the Company or its subsidiaries fail to adequately serve their communities, penalties may be imposed including denials of applications to add branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and affiliates, and
merge with or purchase other financial institutions.



•Anti-money laundering regulations. The Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) and other federal laws require financial institutions to assist U.S.
Government agencies to detect and prevent money laundering. Specifically, the BSA requires financial institutions to keep records of cash purchases of negotiable instruments, file reports of cash transactions exceeding $10,000 (daily aggregate
amount), and to report suspicious activity that might signify money laundering, tax evasion, or other criminal activities. Title III of the Uniting and Strengthening of America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct
Terrorism Act of 2001 (“USA Patriot Act”) substantially broadens the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, defining new crimes and related penalties,
and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued a number of implementing regulations, which apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions. The
Company’s bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries and private investment companies advised or sponsored by the Company’s subsidiaries must comply with these regulations. These regulations also impose new obligations on financial institutions
to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing.

The Parent is subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. As a
company listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“Nasdaq”) Global Select Market, the Parent is subject to Nasdaq listing standards for quoted companies.

The Company is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which addresses, among other issues, corporate governance, auditing and accounting, executive compensation, and enhanced and timely disclosure of
corporate information. Nasdaq has also adopted corporate governance rules, which are intended to allow shareholders and investors to more easily and efficiently monitor the performance of companies and their directors.

The Board of Directors of the Parent has implemented a comprehensive system of corporate governance practices. This system includes
Corporate Governance Guidelines, a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees, a Directors Code of Conduct, and charters for the Audit, Credit Review, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. More information on the
Company’s corporate governance practices is available on the Company’s website atwww.zionsbancorporation.com. (The Company’s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.)

The Company has adopted policies, procedures and controls to address compliance with the requirements of the banking, securities and other
laws and regulations described above or otherwise applicable to the Company. The Company intends to make appropriate revisions to reflect any changes required.

Regulators, Congress, state legislatures and international consultative bodies continue to enact rules, laws, and policies to regulate the financial services industry and public companies and to protect
consumers and investors. The nature of these laws and regulations and the effect of such policies on future business and earnings of the Company cannot be predicted.







GOVERNMENT MONETARY POLICIES

The earnings and business of the Company are affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by policies adopted by various
governmental authorities. The Company is particularly affected by the monetary policies of the FRB, which affect both short-term and long-term interest rates and the national supply of bank credit. The tools available to the FRB which may be used to
implement monetary policy include:



•open-market operations in U.S. Government and other securities;



•adjustment of the discount rates or cost of bank borrowings from the FRB;



•imposing or changing reserve requirements against bank deposits;



•term auction facilities collateralized by bank loans; and



•other programs to purchase assets and inject liquidity directly in various segments of the economy.

These methods are used in varying combinations to influence the overall growth or contraction of bank loans, investments and deposits, and
the interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits.

In view of the changing conditions in the economy and the effect of
the FRB’s monetary policies, it is difficult to predict future changes in loan demand, deposit levels and interest rates, or their effect on the business and earnings of the Company. FRB monetary policies have had a significant effect on the
operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future.







