Item1A.Risk Factors.

Risks Relating to our Business Generally

An economic downturn, as well as unstable economic conditions in the countries and regions in which we operate, could adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition.

The exit of the U.K. from the European Union (Brexit) could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Our operations in the U.K., which contributed approximately 17% of our brokerage segment and approximately 4% of our risk management segment revenues in
2018, expose us to risk in the event of an economic downturn in the U.K. due to Brexit. Such a downturn could adversely affect our U.K. operations through a decline in the insurance coverage and consulting services our clients purchase as they face
reductions in their headcount, payroll, properties or the market value of their assets. In aso-called“hard” or“no-deal”Brexit where the U.K.
leaves the European Union without trade or other deals in place with member countries, our European client base outside the U.K., which is minimal, would need to be serviced from operations in a country in the European Union. While we have a plan in
place to service these clients from one of our existing offices in Sweden, such a transition could be a distraction to both clients and our management. In addition, the uncertainty surrounding Brexit has and may continue to result in substantial
volatility in foreign exchange markets and may lead to a sustained weakness in the British pound’s exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. Any significant weakening of the British pound to the U.S. dollar will have an adverse impact on our
brokerage and risk management segments’ net earnings as reported in U.S. dollars.

Economic conditions that result in financial
difficulties for underwriting enterprises or lead to reduced risk-taking capital capacity could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

We have a significant amount of trade accounts receivable from some of the underwriting enterprises with which we place insurance. If those companies experience liquidity problems or other financial
difficulties, we could encounter delays or defaults in payments owed to us, which could have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The failure of an underwriting enterprise with which we
place business could result in errors and omissions claims against us by our clients, and the failure of errors and omissions underwriting enterprises could make the errors and omissions insurance we rely upon cost prohibitive or unavailable, which
could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if underwriting enterprises merge or if a large underwriting enterprise fails or withdraws from offering certain lines of coverage, overall risk-taking capital
capacity could be negatively affected, which could reduce our ability to place certain lines of coverage and, as a result, reduce our revenues and profitability. Such failures or coverage withdrawals on the part of underwriting enterprises could
occur for any number of reasons, including large unexpected payouts related to climate change or other emerging risk areas.

We have
historically acquired large numbers of insurance brokers, benefit consulting firms and, to a lesser extent, claim and risk management firms. We may not be able to continue such an acquisition strategy in the future and there are risks associated
with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect our growth and results of operations.

Our acquisition program has been an important
part of our historical growth, particularly in our brokerage segment, and we believe that similar acquisition activity will be important to maintaining comparable growth in the future. Failure to successfully identify and complete acquisitions
likely would result in us achieving slower growth. Continuing consolidation in our industry and growing interest in acquiring insurance brokers on the part of private equity firms and private equity-backed consolidators could make it more difficult
for us to identify appropriate targets and could make them more expensive. Even if we are able to identify appropriate acquisition targets, we may not have sufficient capital to fund acquisitions, be able to execute transactions on favorable terms
or integrate targets in a manner that allows us to realize the benefits we have historically experienced from acquisitions. When regulatory approval of acquisitions is required, our ability to complete acquisitions may be limited by an ongoing
regulatory review or other issues with the relevant regulator. Our ability to finance and integrate acquisitions may also decrease if we complete a greater number of large acquisitions than we have historically.







Post-acquisition risks include those relating to retention of personnel, retention of clients, entry into
unfamiliar markets or lines of business, contingencies or liabilities, such as violations of sanctions laws or anti-corruption laws including the FCPA and U.K. Bribery Act, risks relating to ensuring compliance with licensing and regulatory
requirements, tax and accounting issues, the risk that the acquisition distracts management and personnel from our existing business, and integration difficulties relating to accounting, information technology, human resources, employee attrition or
poor organizational culture and fit, some or all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and growth. The failure of acquisition targets to achieve anticipated revenue and earnings levels could also result in goodwill
impairment charges.

We own interests in firms where we do not exercise management control (such as Casanueva Perez S.A.P. de C.V. in Mexico)
and are therefore unable to direct or manage the business to realize the anticipated benefits, including mitigation of risks, that could be achieved through full integration.

We face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses.

The insurance
brokerage and employee benefit consulting businesses are highly competitive and many insurance brokerage and employee benefit consulting organizations actively compete with us in one or more areas of our business around the world. We compete with
three firms in the global risk management and brokerage markets that have revenues significantly larger than ours. In addition, many other smaller firms that operate nationally or that are strong in a particular country, region or locality may have,
in that country, region or locality, an office with revenues as large as or larger than those of our corresponding local office. Our third party claims administration operation also faces significant competition from stand-alone firms as well as
divisions of larger firms.

We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position with other organizations in our industry
are the quality of the services we render, the personalized attention we provide, the individual and corporate expertise of the brokers and consultants providing the actual service to the client and our ability to help our clients manage their
overall insurance costs. Losing business to competitors offering similar products at a lower cost or having other competitive advantages would adversely affect our business.

In addition, any increase in competition due to new legislative or industry developments could adversely affect us. These developments include:



•Increased capital-raising by underwriting enterprises, which could result in new risk-taking capital in the industry, which in turn may lead to lower
insurance premiums and commissions;



•Underwriting enterprises selling insurance directly to insureds without the involvement of a broker or other intermediary;



•Changes in our business compensation model as a result of regulatory developments;



•Federal and state governments establishing programs to provide health insurance or, in certain cases, property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas or
other alternative market types of coverage, that compete with, or completely replace, insurance products currently offered by underwriting enterprises; and



•Increased competition from new market participants such as banks, accounting firms, consulting firms and Internet or other technology firms offering
risk management or insurance brokerage services, or new distribution channels for insurance such as payroll firms.

New
competition as a result of these or other legislative or industry developments could cause the demand for our products and services to decrease, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.







Volatility or declines in premiums or other adverse trends in the insurance industry may seriously
undermine our profitability.

We derive much of our revenue from commissions and fees for our brokerage services. We do not determine the
insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Moreover, insurance premiums are cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market conditions. Because of market cycles for insurance product pricing, which we cannot predict or
control, our brokerage revenues and profitability can be volatile or remain depressed for significant periods of time.

As underwriting
enterprises continue to outsource the production of premium revenue tonon-affiliatedbrokers or agents such as us, those companies may seek to further minimize their expenses by reducing the commission rates
payable to insurance agents or brokers. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly affect our profitability. Because we do not determine the timing or extent of premium
pricing changes, it is difficult to precisely forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. As a result, we may have to adjust our budgets for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, dividend payments, loan
repayments and other expenditures to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may adversely affect the results of our operations.

In addition, there have been and may continue to be various trends in the insurance industry toward alternative insurance markets including, among other things, greater levels of self-insurance, captives,rent-a-captives,risk retention groups andnon-insurancecapital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance. While
historically we have been able to participate in certain of these activities on behalf of our clients and obtain fee revenue for such services, there can be no assurance that we will realize revenues and profitability as favorable as those realized
from our traditional brokerage activities. Our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may also be challenged by the growing desire of some clients to compensate brokers based upon flat fees rather than variable commission rates. This
could negatively impact us because fees are generally not indexed for inflation and do not automatically increase with premiums as commissions do.

Contingent and supplemental revenues we receive from underwriting enterprises are less predictable than standard commission revenues, and any decrease in the amount of these forms of revenue could
adversely affect our results of operations.

A significant portion of our revenues consists of contingent and supplemental revenues from
underwriting enterprises. Contingent revenues are paid after the insurance contract period, generally in the first or second quarter, based on the growth and/or profitability of business we placed with an underwriting enterprise during the prior
year. On the other hand, supplemental revenues are paid up front, on an annual or quarterly basis, generally based on our historical premium volumes with the underwriting enterprise and additional capabilities or services we bring to the engagement.
If, due to the current economic environment or for any other reason, we are unable to meet an underwriting enterprise’s particular profitability, volume or growth thresholds, as the case may be, or such companies increase their estimate of loss
reserves (over which we have no control), actual contingent revenues or supplemental revenues could be less than anticipated, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In the case of contingent revenues, under the new revenue
recognition accounting standard, that was effective January 1, 2018, this could lead to the reversal of revenues in future periods that were recognized in prior periods (See Note 2 to our 2018 consolidated financial statements for more
information).

If we are unable to apply technology effectively in driving value for our clients through technology-based solutions or gain
internal efficiencies and effective internal controls through the application of technology and related tools, our operating results, client relationships, growth and compliance programs could be adversely affected.

start-up

In some cases, we depend on key third-party vendors and partners to provide technology and other support for our strategic initiatives. If these third
parties fail to perform their obligations or cease to work with us, our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives could be adversely affected.







Damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our reputation is one of our key assets. We advise our clients on and provide services related to a wide range of subjects and our ability to attract and
retain clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, ability to protect client information, trustworthiness, business practices, financial condition and other subjective qualities such as culture and values. Our
success is also dependent on maintaining a good reputation with existing and potential employees, investors and regulators. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding the matters noted above, including our association with clients or business
partners who themselves have a damaged reputation, or from actual or alleged conduct by us or our employees, could damage our reputation. Our reputation could also be impacted by negative perceptions or publicity regarding environmental, social and
governance (ESG) issues or cybersecurity and data privacy concerns. Any resulting erosion of trust and confidence could make it difficult for us to attract and retain clients, employees and investors or harm our relationships with regulators, any of
which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our future success depends, in
part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced and qualified talent, including our senior management team.

We depend upon members
of our senior management team, who possess extensive knowledge and a deep understanding of our business and strategy. We could be adversely affected if we fail to plan adequately for the succession of these leaders, including our chief executive
officer. We could also be adversely affected if we fail to attract and retain talent throughout our organization. Competition for talent in rapidly developing fields such as artificial intelligence and data engineering is particularly intense. In
addition, our industry has experienced competition for leading brokers and in the past we have lost key brokers and groups of brokers, along with their clients, business relationships and intellectual property directly to our competition. Our
failure to adequately address any of these issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.

Our substantial operations outside the U.S. expose us to risks different than those we face in the U.S.

In 2018, we generated approximately 30% of our combined brokerage and risk management revenues outside the U.S. The global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. Adverse
geopolitical or economic conditions may temporarily or permanently disrupt our operations outside the U.S. or create difficulties in staffing and managing such operations. For example, we have substantial operations in India that provide important
back-office services for other parts of our global organization. To date, the dispute between India and Pakistan involving the Kashmir region, incidents of terrorism in India and general geopolitical uncertainties have not adversely affected our
operations in India. However, such factors could potentially affect our operations there in the future. Should our access to these services be disrupted, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Operating outside the U.S. may also present other risks that are different from, or greater than, the risks we face doing comparable business
in the U.S. These include, among others, risks relating to:



•Maintaining awareness of and complying with a wide variety of labor practices and foreign laws, including those relating to export and import duties,
environmental policies and privacy issues, as well as laws and regulations applicable to U.S. business operations abroad. These and other international regulatory risks are described below under “Regulatory, Legal and Accounting Risks;”



•The potential costs, difficulties and risks associated with local regulations across the globe, including the risk of personal liability for directors
and officers and “piercing the corporate veil” risks under the corporate law regimes of certain countries;



•Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. For example, we are building our South American operations (which contributed
$32.3 million in revenue from 15 locations in 2018) through acquisitions of local family-owned insurance brokerage firms. If we lose a local leader, recruiting a replacement locally or finding an internal candidate qualified to transfer to such
location could be difficult;



•Less flexible employee relationships, which may limit our ability to prohibit employees from competing with us after they are no longer employed with
us or recovering damages in the event they do so, and may make it more difficult and expensive to terminate their employment;



•Some of our foreign subsidiaries receive revenues or incur obligations in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. We must also
translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Although we have used foreign currency hedging strategies in the past and currently have some in place, such risks cannot be eliminated entirely, and significant changes
in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations;



•Conflicting regulations in the countries in which we do business;



•Political and economic instability (including risks relating to undeveloped or evolving legal systems, unstable governments, acts of terrorism and
outbreaks of war);







•Coordinating our communications and logistics across geographic distances, multiple time zones and in different languages, including during times of
crisis management;



•Adverse trade policies, and adverse changes to any of the policies of the U.S. or any of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate;



•The transition away from LIBOR to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as a benchmark reference for short-term interest rates;



•Unfavorable audits and exposure to additional liabilities relating to variousnon-incometaxes (such as
payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes) in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, discriminatory or confiscatory taxation,
changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation and the financial results of our international subsidiaries. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development issued reports and
recommendations as part of its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project (which we refer to as BEPS), and in response many countries in which we do business are expected to adopt rules which may change various aspects of the existing framework under
which our tax obligations are determined. For example, in response to BEPS, the U.K., Australia and New Zealand adopted rules that affect the deductibility of interest paid on intercompany debt, and other jurisdictions where we operate may do so as
well in the near future;



•Legal or political constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices;



•Cash balances held in foreign banks and institutions where governments have not specifically enacted formal guarantee programs;



•Lost business or other financial harm due to governmental actions affecting the flow of goods, services and currency, including protectionist policies
that discriminate in favor of local competitors; and



•Governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds to us from our operations outside the U.S.

The trade policies of the current U.S. presidential administration could develop in ways that exacerbate the risks described above, or introduce new
risks for our international operations. If any of these risks materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

We face a variety of risks in our risk management third-party claims administration operations that are distinct from those we face in our insurance brokerage and benefit consulting operations.

Our third party claims administration operations face a variety of risks distinct from those faced by our brokerage operations, including
the risks that:



•The favorable trend among both underwriting enterprises and self-insured entities toward outsourcing various types of claims administration and risk
management services will reverse or slow, causing our revenues or revenue growth to decline;



•Concentration of large amounts of revenue with certain clients results in greater exposure to the potential negative effects of lost business due to
changes in management at such clients or changes in state government policies, in the case of our government-entity clients, or for other reasons;



•Contracting terms will become less favorable or the margins on our services will decrease due to increased competition, regulatory constraints or other
developments;



•We will not be able to satisfy regulatory requirements related to third party administrators or regulatory developments (including those relating to
security and data privacy outside the U.S.) will impose additional burdens, costs or business restrictions that make our business less profitable;



•Our revenue is impacted by case volumes, which are dependent upon a number of factors and difficult to forecast accurately;



•Economic weakness or a slow-down in economic activity could lead to a reduction in the number of claims we process;



•If we do not control our labor and technology costs, we may be unable to remain competitive in the marketplace and profitably fulfill our existing
contracts (other than those that provide cost-plus or other margin protection);



•We may be unable to develop further efficiencies in our claims-handling business and may be unable to obtain or retain certain clients if we fail to
make adequate improvements in technology or operations; and



•Underwriting enterprises or certain large self-insured entities may createin-houseservicing capabilities that
compete with our third party administration and other administration, servicing and risk management products.

If any of
these risks materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.







Sustained increases in the cost of employee benefits could reduce our profitability.

The cost of current employees’ medical and other benefits, as well as pension retirement benefits and postretirement medical benefits under our
legacy defined benefit plans, substantially affects our profitability. In the past, we have occasionally experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors beyond our control, including increases in health care
costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and changes in discount rates and actuarial assumptions used to calculate pension and related liabilities. A significant decrease in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets,
changes to actuarial assumptions used to determine pension plan liabilities, or decreases in the interest rates used to discount the pension plans’ liabilities could cause an increase in pension plan costs in future years. Although we have
actively sought to control increases in these costs, we can make no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce our profitability.

Business disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operations, damage our reputation and impact client relationships.

Our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business. Such a disruption could be
caused by human error, capacity constraints, hardware failure or defect, natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures,break-ins,sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism,
political unrest, or war. Our disaster recovery procedures may not be effective and insurance may not continue to be available at reasonable prices and may not address all such losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients or increase in
claims and lawsuits directed against us.

For example, our third party claims administration operation is highly
dependent on the continued and efficient functioning of RISX-FACS®, our proprietary risk management information
system, to provide clients with insurance claim settlement and administration services. A disruption affecting
RISX-FACS®or any other infrastructure supporting our business could have a material adverse effect on our
operations, cause reputational harm and damage our client relationships.

Regulatory, Legal and Accounting Risks

A cybersecurity attack could adversely affect our business, financial condition and reputation.

denial-of-service

We have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives, policies and
resources and employee training. The cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further system protections measures could increase significantly as cybersecurity threats increase. As these threats evolve,
cybersecurity incidents will be more difficult to detect, defend against and remediate. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation.

Improper disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary information could result in regulatory scrutiny, legal liability or reputational harm,
and could have an adverse effect on our business or operations.

We maintain confidential, personal and proprietary information relating to
our company, our employees and our clients. This information includes personally identifiable information, protected health information, financial information and intellectual property. If our information systems or infrastructure or those of our
third party vendors experience a significant disruption or breach, such information could be compromised. A party that obtains this information may use it to steal funds, for ransom, to facilitate a fraud, or for other illicit purposes. Such a
disruption or breach could also result in unauthorized access to our proprietary information, intellectual property and business secrets.

We
maintain policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of confidential, personal and proprietary information. Nonetheless, we cannot eliminate the risk of human error or malfeasance. It is possible that
our security controls and employee training may not be effective. This could harm our reputation, create legal exposure, or subject us to legal liability. Significant costs are involved with maintaining system safeguards for our technology
infrastructure. If we are unable to effectively maintain and upgrade our system safeguards, including in connection with the integration of acquisitions, we may incur unexpected costs and certain of our systems may become more vulnerable to
unauthorized access.







With respect to our commercial arrangements with third party vendors, we have processes designed to require
third party IT outsourcing, offsite storage and other vendors to agree to maintain certain standards with respect to the storage, protection and transfer of confidential, personal and proprietary information. However, we remain at risk of a data
breach due to the intentional or unintentionalnon-complianceby a vendor’s employee or agent, the breakdown of a vendor’s data protection processes, or a cyber attack on a vendor’s information
systems.

Changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations, or any failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could
adversely affect our business and financial results.

These and similar initiatives around the world could increase the cost of developing, implementing or securing our servers and require us to allocate
more resources to improved technologies, adding to our IT and compliance costs. In addition, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. The
enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, regulations, or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant
legal liability.

We are subject to regulation worldwide. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if regulations change in a
way that adversely affects our operations, we may not be able to conduct our business, or we may be less profitable.

wage-and-hour

The global nature of our operations increases the complexity and cost of compliance with laws and regulations, including increased staffing needs, the development of new policies, procedures and internal
controls and providing training to employees in multiple locations, adding to our cost of doing business. Many of these laws and regulations may have differing or conflicting legal standards across jurisdictions, increasing further the complexity
and cost of compliance. In emerging markets and other jurisdictions with less developed legal systems, local laws and regulations may not be established with sufficiently clear and reliable guidance to provide us with adequate assurance that we are
aware of all necessary licenses to operate our business, that we are operating our business in a compliant manner, or that our rights are otherwise protected. In addition, major political and legal developments in jurisdictions in which we do
business may lead to new regulatory costs and challenges. See “The exit of the U.K. from the European Union (Brexit) could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.”







Changes in legislation or regulations and actions by regulators, including changes in administration and
enforcement policies, could from time to time require operational changes that could result in lost revenues or higher costs or hinder our ability to operate our business.

For example, the method by which insurance brokers are compensated has received substantial scrutiny in the past because of the potential for conflicts of interest. The potential for conflicts of interest
arises when a broker is compensated by two parties in connection with the same or similar transactions. The vast majority of the compensation we receive for our work as insurance brokers is in the form of retail commissions and fees. We receive
additional revenue from underwriting enterprises, separate from retail commissions and fees, including, among other things, contingent and supplemental revenues and payments for consulting and analytics services we provide them. Future changes in
the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect these amounts. Adverse regulatory, legal or other developments regarding these revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition,
expose us to negative publicity and reputational damage and harm our relationships with clients, underwriting enterprises or other business partners.

In addition, we have made significant investments in product and knowledge development to assist clients as they navigate the complex regulatory requirements relating to employer sponsored healthcare.
Depending on future changes to health legislation, these investments may not yield returns. If we are unable to adapt our services to future changes in the legal and regulatory landscape around employer sponsored healthcare, our ability to grow our
business or provide effective services, particularly in our employee benefits consulting business, will be negatively impacted. If our clients reduce the role or extent of employer sponsored healthcare in response to any future law or regulation,
our results of operations could be adversely impacted.

We could be adversely affected by violations or alleged violations of laws that
impose requirements for the conduct of our overseas operations, including the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-corruption laws, sanctioned parties restrictions, and FATCA.

In foreign countries where we operate, a risk exists that our employees, third party partners or agents could engage in business practices prohibited by applicable laws and regulations, such as the FCPA
and the U.K. Bribery Act. Such anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies from making improper payments to foreign officials and require companies to keep accurate books and records and maintain appropriate internal controls. Our policies
mandate strict compliance with such laws and we devote substantial resources to programs to ensure compliance. However, we operate in some parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption, and, in certain circumstances, local customs
and practice might not be consistent with the requirements of anti-corruption laws. In addition, in recent years, two of the five publicly traded insurance brokerage firms were investigated in the U.S. and the U.K. for improper payments to foreign
officials. These firms undertook internal investigations and paid significant settlements.

We remain subject to the risk that our employees,
third party partners or agents will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies and violate such laws and regulations. Violations by us or a third party acting on our behalf could result in significant internal investigation
costs and legal fees, civil and criminal penalties, including prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and reputational harm.

We may also
be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we violate U.S. trade sanctions administered by OFAC, the European Union and the United Nations, and trade sanction laws such as the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012.

In addition, FATCA requires certain of our subsidiaries, affiliates and other entities to obtain valid FATCA documentation from payees prior
to remitting certain payments to such payees. In the event we do not obtain valid FATCA documents, we may be obliged to withhold a portion of such payments. This obligation is shared with our clients who may fail to comply, in whole or in part. In
such circumstances, we may incur FATCA compliance costs including withholding taxes, interest and penalties. Recent regulatory developments related to FATCA could also cause short-term increases in our costs related to systems and process updates
needed for us to be able to take advantage of such changes. In addition, the impact of Brexit on FATCA reporting for EU placements may further increase our compliance burden and cost of operations and could adversely affect the market for our
services as intermediaries, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may
have an adverse effect on us, and such effect may be material.

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted tax legislation commonly
referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act), which significantly revised the U.S. tax code by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%; limiting the deductibility of interest expense; implementing a
territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Some aspects of the Tax Act are still unclear and will continue to be clarified over time. While we have updated estimates of the tax
impacts based on guidance released to date or interpretations under such guidance, other guidance could be issued in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.







We are subject to a number of contingencies and legal proceedings which, if determined unfavorably to us,
would adversely affect our financial results.

sub-agents

sub-agents

non-compete

Chem-Mod LLC

Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and operating results.

Risks Relating to our Investments, Debt and Common Stock

Our clean energy investments are subject to various risks and uncertainties.

Our ability to generate returns and avoid write-offs in connection with our IRC Section 45 and IRC Section 29 investments is subject to various
risks and uncertainties including those set forth below.



•Environmental concerns regarding coal. Environmental concerns about greenhouse gases, toxic wastewater discharges and the potential hazardous
nature of coal combustion waste could lead to public pressure to reduce or regulations that discourage the burning of coal, even refined coal treated by technologies such as
The Chem-







Mod™ Solution. Negative publicity regarding our IRC Section 45 investments or clean coal generally could exacerbate this risk and increase the risk that Congress might limit the
availability of the tax credits or fail to extend them. Additionally, regulations could mandate that electric power generating companies purchase a minimum amount of power from energy sources such as wind, hydroelectric, solar, nuclear and
geothermal. If utilities burned less coal as a result of any such regulation, our ability to generate tax credits would be reduced.



•Demand for commercial refined coal plants.Changes in circumstances may cause a commercial refined coal plant to be moved to a different
power generation facility, which could require us to invest additional capital. The implementation of environmental regulations regarding certain pollution control and permitting requirements has been delayed from time to time due to various
lawsuits and changes in presidential administrations. The uncertainty created by litigation and reconsiderations of rule-making by the Environmental Protection Agency could negatively impact power generational facilities’ demand for commercial
refined coal plants, should we need to move them. Sustained low natural gas prices could cause utilities to phase out or close existing coal-fired power plants. In addition, certain financing sources and insurance companies have taken action to
limit available financing and insurance coverage for the development of new coal-fueled power plants, which could also limit the demand for refined coal facilities at power plants should we need to move one of our existing facilities.



•Market demand for coal.When the price of natural gas and/or oil declines relative to that of coal, some utilities may choose to burn natural
gas or oil instead of coal. Market demand for coal may also decline as a result of an increase in the use of wind generated power, an economic slowdown or mild weather and a corresponding decline in the use of electricity. If utilities burn less
coal or eliminate coal in the production of electricity, the availability of the tax credits would also be reduced.





•



Intellectual property and litigation risks.

Chem-Mod™

Chem-Mod™

Chem-Mod

The Chem-Mod™ Solution.

Chem-Mod LLC

Chem-Mod LLC

The Chem-Mod™ Solution

Chem-Mod LLC

Chem-Mod LLC

Chem-Mod LLC



•Co-investortax credit risks.We haveco-investorsin several of
the operations currently producing refined coal. If in the future any one of ourco-investorsleaves a project, we could have difficulty finding replacements in a timely manner. On June 15, 2017, one of
the refined coal partnerships in which we are an investor, received a notice from the IRS disallowing ourco-investorsfrom claiming tax credits. The position taken by the IRS has the potential to affect, and
the IRS has opened audits of, other partnerships in which theseco-investorsare invested. However, the IRS notice does not challenge the validity of the tax credits themselves, or our ability to utilize
tax credits. The partnership affected by the June 15, 2017 notice is defending its position in tax court. However, litigation is inherently uncertain and it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of this proceeding. An adverse ruling
would likely make it more difficult for us to reach satisfactory arrangements with newco-investorsand we may also be subject to claims against us from theco-investorsaffected by this IRS notice.





•



Operational risks.Chem-Mod’smulti-pollutant reduction technologies (TheChem-Mod

TM

Solution)
require chemicals that may not be readily available in the marketplace at reasonable costs. Utilities that use the technologies could be idled for various reasons, including operational or environmental problems at the plants or in the boilers,
disruptions in the supply or transportation of coal, revocation of theirChem-Modtechnologies environmental permits, labor strikes, force majeure events such as hurricanes, or terrorist attacks, any of which
could halt or impede the operations. Long-term operations usingChem-Mod’smulti-pollutant reduction technologies could also lead to unforeseen technical or other problems not evident in the short- or
medium-term. A serious injury or death of a worker connected with the production of refined coal usingChem-Mod’stechnologies could expose the operations to material liabilities, jeopardizing our
investment, and could lead to reputational harm. In the event of any such operational problems, we may not be able to take full advantage of the tax credits. We could also be exposed to risk due to our lack of control over the operations if future
developments, for example a regulatory change affecting public and private companies differently, causes our interests and those of ourco-investorsto diverge. Finally, our vendors responsible for operation
and management could fail to run the operations in compliance with IRC Section 45. If any of these developments occur, our investment returns may be negatively impacted.







•Incompatible coal.If utilities purchase coal of a quality or type incompatible with their boilers and operations, treating such coal through a
commercial refined coal plant could magnify the negative impacts of burning such coal. As a result, refined coal plants at such utilities may be removed from production until the incompatible coal has all been burned, which could cause us to be
unable to take full advantage of the tax credits.



•Strategic alternatives risk.While we currently expect to continue to hold at least a portion of our IRC Section 45 investments, if for any
reason in the future we decide to sell more of our interests, the discount rate on future cash flows could be excessive, and could result in an impairment of our investment.

“placed-in-service”

IRC Section 29-related limited

While none of our prior IRC Section 29 operations are currently under audit, many of the IRC
Section 45 operations in which we are invested are under audit by the IRS. The IRS could place the remaining IRC Section 45 operations and any of the prior IRC Section 29 operations under audit. An adverse outcome with respect to
our ability to claim tax credits under any such audit would likely cause a material loss or cause us to be subject to liability under indemnification obligations related to prior sales of partnership interests in IRC Section 29 tax credits.

The IRC Section 45 operations in which we have invested and theby-productsfrom such
operations may result in environmental and product liability claims and environmental compliance costs.

Chem-Mod™

Chem-Mod™

Chem-Mod™

Chem-Mod™







We have debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility and subjects us to
restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business.

We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other
distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries.

We are organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from
our operating subsidiaries. As a holding company without significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding
debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders, repurchasing our common stock and for corporate expenses. In the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and other payments to us, we may not be able to service
our debt, pay our obligations, pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock.

Further, we derive a significant portion of our revenue and
operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the U.S. Since the majority of financing obligations as well as dividends to stockholders are paid from the U.S., it is important to be able to access the cash generated by our operating
subsidiaries located outside the U.S. in the event we are unable to meet these U.S. based cash requirements.

Funds from our operating
subsidiaries outside the U.S. may be repatriated to the U.S. via stockholder distributions and intercompany financings, where necessary. A number of factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or make repatriation cost
prohibitive, including, but not limited to the imposition of currency controls and other government restrictions on repatriation in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the imposition of
withholding and other taxes on such payments and our ability to repatriate earnings in atax-efficientmanner.

In the event we are unable to generate or repatriate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate and our ability to finance our
obligations, including to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, could be adversely affected.







Future sales or other dilution of our equity could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

We grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate
activities is through the issuance of additional equity securities. The issuance of any additional shares of common or of preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Moreover, to the
extent that we issue restricted stock units, performance stock units, options or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock in the future and those options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units or performance stock units
vest, our stockholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or
offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of our common stock or the perception that such sales could occur.

The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at
times or at prices you find attractive.

The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors,
including the risk factors described above, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These
broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:



•General economic and political conditions such as recessions, economic downturns and acts of war or terrorism;



•Quarterly variations in our operating results;



•Seasonality of our business cycle;



•Changes in the market’s expectations about our operating results;



•Our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;



•Changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us or the insurance brokerage or financial services industries in
general;



•Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;



•News reports relating to trends in our markets, including any expectations regarding an upcoming “hard” or “soft” market;



•Cyber attacks and other cybersecurity incidents;



•Changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;



•Material announcements by us or our competitors;



•The impact or perceived impact of developments relating to our investments, including the possible perception by securities analysts or investors that
such investments divert management attention from our core operations;



•Market volatility;



•A negative market reaction to announced acquisitions;



•Competitive pressures in each of our segments;



•General conditions in the insurance brokerage and insurance industries;



•Legal proceedings or regulatory investigations;



•Regulatory requirements, including international sanctions and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 or other
anti-corruption laws;



•Quarter-to-quartervolatility in the earnings impact of IRC
Section 45 tax credits from our clean energy investments, due to the application of accounting standards applicable to the recognition of tax credits; and



•Sales of substantial amounts of common shares by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could
occur.

Stockholder class action lawsuits may be instituted against us following a period of volatility in our stock price.
Any such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management’s attention and resources.

