10-K


d314580d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

☒

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016

☐

Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number 1-09761

ARTHUR J. GALLAGHER & CO.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code (630) 773-3800

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which registered

Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes  ☒    No  ☐.

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes  ☐    No  ☒

.

Note:

Checking the box above
will not relieve any registrant required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act from their obligations under those Sections.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  ☒    No  ☐.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes  ☒    No  ☐.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of “large accelerated
filer,” “accelerated filer,” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule

12b-2

of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

☒

Accelerated filer

☐

Non-accelerated filer

☐

Smaller reporting company

☐

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
    Yes  ☐    No  ☒.

The aggregate market value of the voting common
equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the last reported price at which the registrant’s common equity was sold on June 30, 2016 (the last day of the registrant’s most recently completed second
quarter) was $7,533,668,000.

The number of outstanding shares of the registrant’s Common Stock, $1.00 par value, as of January 31,
2017 was 178,617,000.

Documents incorporated by reference:

Portions of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.’s definitive 2017 Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into this

Form 10-K

in response to Part III
to the extent described herein.


Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Annual Report on Form

10-K

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2016

Index



Part I

Item 1. Business.

Overview

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to
herein as we, our, us or Gallagher, are engaged in providing insurance brokerage and consulting services and third party claims settlement and administration services to both domestic and international entities. We believe that our major strength is
our ability to deliver comprehensively structured insurance, risk management and consulting services to our clients. Our brokers, agents and administrators act as intermediaries between insurers and their customers.

Since our founding in 1927, we have grown from a

one-person

agency to the world’s fourth largest insurance
broker based on revenues, according to

Business Insurance

magazine’s July 18, 2016 edition, and one of the world’s largest property/casualty third party claims administrators, according to

Business Insurance

magazine’s March 24, 2016 edition. We have three reportable segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate, which contributed approximately 63%, 13% and 24%, respectively, to 2016 revenues. We generate approximately 69% of our revenues
from the combined brokerage and risk management segments domestically, with the remaining 31% derived internationally, primarily in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the United Kingdom (U.K.). Substantially all of the
revenues of the corporate segment are generated in the United States (U.S.).

Shares of our common stock are traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol AJG, and we had a market capitalization at December 31, 2016 of approximately $9.3 billion. Information in this report is as of December 31, 2016 unless otherwise noted. We were reincorporated as a Delaware
corporation in 1972. Our executive offices are located at Two Pierce Place, Itasca, Illinois

60143-3141,

and our telephone number is

(630) 773-3800.

Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

This report contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future, which are forward-looking statements as that term is
defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events. Such statements use words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,”
“expect,” “contemplate,” “forecast,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “potential,” and other similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like “could,”
“may,” “might,” “see,” “should,” “will” and “would.” You can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. For
example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; acquisition strategy; the expected impact of acquisitions and dispositions; the development and
performance of our services and products; changes in the composition or level of our revenues or earnings; our cost structure and the outcome of cost-saving or restructuring initiatives; future capital expenditures; future debt levels; future debt
to earnings ratios; the outcome of contingencies; dividend policy; pension obligations; cash flow and liquidity; capital structure and financial losses; future actions by regulators; the outcome of existing regulatory actions, investigations,
reviews or litigation; the impact of changes in accounting rules; financial markets; interest rates; foreign exchange rates; matters relating to our operations; income taxes; expectations regarding our investments, including our clean energy
investments; the financial impact of retention agreements in our international brokerage operations; and integrating recent acquisitions. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results
to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors.

Potential factors that could impact
results include:

•

Failure to successfully and cost-effectively integrate recently acquired businesses and their operations or fully realize synergies from such
acquisitions in the expected time frame;

•

Volatility or declines in premiums or other adverse trends in the insurance industry;

•

An economic downturn;

•

Competitive pressures in each of our businesses;

•

Risks that could negatively affect the success of our acquisition strategy, including continuing consolidation in our industry and growing interest in
acquiring insurance brokers on the part of private equity firms, which could make it more difficult to identify targets and could make them more expensive; the risk that we may not receive timely regulatory approval of desired transactions;
execution risks; integration risks; the risk of post-acquisition deterioration leading to intangible asset impairment charges; and the risk we could incur or assume unanticipated regulatory liabilities such as those relating to violations of
anti-corruption and sanctions laws;

•

Our failure to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel;



•

Risks arising from our growing international operations, including the risks posed by political and economic uncertainty in certain countries (such as
the risks posed by protectionist local governments and underdeveloped or evolving legal systems), risks related to maintaining regulatory and legal compliance across multiple jurisdictions (such as those relating to violations of anti-corruption,
sanctions and privacy laws), and risks arising from the complexity of managing businesses across different time zones, geographies, cultures and legal regimes;

•

Risks particular to our risk management segment, including any slowing of the trend toward outsourcing claims administration, and of the concentration
of large amounts of revenue with certain clients;

•

The lower level of predictability inherent in contingent and supplemental commissions versus standard commissions;

•

Sustained increases in the cost of employee benefits;

•

Our failure to apply technology effectively in driving value for our clients through technology-based solutions, or failure to gain internal
efficiencies and effective internal controls through the application of technology and related tools;

•

Our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster, cybersecurity attack or other significant disruption to business continuity;

•

Damage to our reputation;

•

Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including those related to governance and control requirements in particular jurisdictions,
international sanctions, or a change in regulations or enforcement policies that adversely affects our operations (for example, relating to insurance broker compensation methods or the failure of state and local governments to follow through on
agreed-upon income tax credits or other related incentives relating to our planned new corporate headquarters);

•

Violations or alleged violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 or other anti-corruption laws and the
Foreign Account Tax Compliance provisions of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act, (which we refer to as FATCA);

•

The outcome of any existing or future investigation, review, regulatory action or litigation;

•

Our failure to adapt our services to changes resulting from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education
Affordability Reconciliation Act;

•

Unfavorable determinations related to contingencies and legal proceedings;

•

Improper disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary data;

•

Significant changes in foreign exchange rates;

•

Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions (including as a result of the new revenue recognition standard);

•

Risks related to our clean energy investments, including the risk of intellectual property claims, utilities switching from coal to natural gas,
environmental and product liability claims, and environmental compliance costs;

•

Disallowance of Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (which we refer to as IRC) Section 29 or IRC Section 45 tax credits;

•

The risk that our outstanding debt adversely affects our financial flexibility and restrictions and limitations in the agreements and instruments
governing our debt;

•

The risk we may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions from subsidiaries;

•

The risk of share ownership dilution when we issue common stock as consideration for acquisitions and for other reasons;

•

Volatility of the price of our common stock;

•

Risks related to the outcome of the U.S. congressional elections and the new administration; and

•

Risks related to the vote in the U.K. to leave the European Union.

Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of, and are based on information available to us on, the date of the applicable document. All subsequent
written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. We do not undertake any obligation to
update any such statements or release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risk factors
referred to above. Our future performance and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further
information about factors that could materially affect us, including our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in the “Risk Factors” section in Part I, Item 1A of this report.



Operating Segments

We report our results in three segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate. The major sources of our operating revenues are commissions, fees and supplemental and contingent commissions from
brokerage operations, and fees from risk management operations. Information with respect to all sources of revenue, by segment, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016, is as follows (in millions):

See Note 20 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information, including earnings
before income taxes and identifiable assets by segment for 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Our business, particularly our brokerage business, is subject
to seasonal fluctuations. Commission and fee revenues, and the related brokerage and marketing expenses, can vary from quarter to quarter as a result of the timing of policy inception dates and the timing of receipt of information from insurance
carriers. On the other hand, salaries and employee benefits, rent, depreciation and amortization expenses generally tend to be more uniform throughout the year. The timing of acquisitions, recognition of books of business gains and losses and the
variability in the recognition of IRC Section 45 tax credits also impact the trends in our quarterly operating results. See Note 19 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for unaudited quarterly operating results for 2016 and 2015.

Brokerage Segment

The
brokerage segment accounted for 63% of our revenues in 2016. Our brokerage segment is primarily comprised of retail and wholesale insurance brokerage operations. Our retail brokerage operations negotiate and place property/casualty,
employer-provided health and welfare insurance, and healthcare exchange and retirement solutions principally for middle-market commercial, industrial, public entity, religious and

not-for-profit

entities. Many of our retail brokerage customers choose to place their insurance with insurance underwriters, while others choose to use alternative
vehicles such as self-insurance pools, risk retention groups or captive insurance companies. Our wholesale brokerage operations assist our brokers and other unaffiliated brokers and agents in the placement of specialized, unique and

hard-to-place

insurance programs.

Our primary sources of
compensation for our retail brokerage services are commissions paid by insurance companies, which are usually based upon either a percentage of the premium paid by insureds, or brokerage and advisory fees paid directly by our clients. For wholesale
brokerage services, we generally receive a share of the commission paid to the retail broker from the insurer. Commission rates are dependent on a number of factors, including the type of insurance, the particular insurance company underwriting the
policy and whether we act as a retail or wholesale broker. Advisory fees are dependent on the extent and value of the services we provide. In addition, under certain circumstances, both retail brokerage and wholesale brokerage services receive
supplemental and contingent commissions. A supplemental commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier that is above the base commission paid, is determined by the insurance carrier and is established annually in advance of the contractual
period based on historical performance criteria. A contingent commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier based on the overall profit and/or the overall volume of business placed with that insurance carrier during a particular calendar
year and is determined after the contractual period.



We operate our brokerage operations through a network of more than 600 sales and service offices located
throughout the U.S. and in 32 other countries. Most of these offices are fully staffed with sales and service personnel. We offer

client-service

capabilities in more than 150 countries around the world through
a network of correspondent brokers and consultants.

Retail Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our retail insurance brokerage operations accounted for 83% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2016. Our retail brokerage operations place nearly all
lines of commercial property/casualty and health and welfare insurance coverage. Significant lines of insurance coverage and consultant capabilities are as follows:

Our retail brokerage operations are organized into more than 520 office locations primarily located in the U.S.,
Australia, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the U.K., and operate within certain key niche/practice groups, which account for approximately 73% of our retail brokerage revenues. These specialized teams target areas of business and/or
industries in which we have developed a depth of expertise and a large client base. Significant niche/practice groups we serve are as follows:

Our specialized focus on these niche/practice groups allows for highly-focused marketing efforts and facilitates the
development of value-added products and services specific to those industries or business segments. We believe that our detailed understanding and broad client contacts within these niche/practice groups provide us with a competitive advantage.

We anticipate that our retail brokerage operations’ greatest revenue growth over the next several years will continue to come from:

•

Mergers and acquisitions;

•

Our niche/practice groups and middle-market accounts;

•

Cross-selling other brokerage products to existing customers; and

•

Developing and managing alternative market mechanisms such as captives,

rent-a-captives

and deductible

plans/self-insurance.

Wholesale Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our wholesale insurance brokerage operations
accounted for 17% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2016. Our wholesale brokers assist our retail brokers and other

non-affiliated

brokers in the placement of specialized and

hard-to-place

insurance. These brokers operate through more than 80 office locations primarily located across the U.S., Bermuda and through our approved Lloyd’s of
London brokerage operation. In certain cases we act as a brokerage wholesaler and in other cases we act as a managing general agent or managing general underwriter distributing specialized insurance coverages for insurance carriers. Managing general
agents and managing general underwriters are agents authorized by an insurance company to manage all or a part of the insurer’s business in a specific geographic territory. Activities they perform on behalf of the insurer may include marketing,
underwriting (although we do not assume any underwriting risk), issuing policies, collecting premiums, appointing and supervising other agents, paying claims and negotiating reinsurance.

More than 75% of our wholesale brokerage revenues come from

non-affiliated

brokerage customers. Based on revenues, our domestic wholesale brokerage operation ranked
as one of the largest domestic managing general agents/underwriting managers/wholesale brokers/Lloyds coverholders according to

Business Insurance

magazine’s October 24, 2016 edition.



We anticipate growing our wholesale brokerage operations by increasing the number of broker-clients,
developing new managing general agency and underwriter programs, and through mergers and acquisitions.

Risk Management Segment

Our risk management segment accounted for 13% of our revenues in 2016. Our risk management segment provides contract claim settlement and
administration services for enterprises that choose to self-insure some or all of their property/casualty coverages and for insurance companies that choose to outsource some or all of their property/casualty claims departments. Approximately 68% of
our risk management segment’s revenues are from workers’ compensation-related claims, 28% are from general and commercial auto liability-related claims and 4% are from property-related claims. In addition, we generate revenues from
integrated disability management (employee absence management) programs, information services, risk control consulting (loss control) services and appraisal services, either individually or in combination with arising claims. Revenues for risk
management services are comprised of fees generally negotiated in advance on a

per-claim

or

per-service

basis, depending upon the type and estimated volume of the
services to be performed.

Risk management services are primarily marketed directly to Fortune 1000 companies, larger middle-market companies,

not-for-profit

organizations and public entities on an independent basis from our brokerage operations. We manage our third party claims adjusting operations through a
network of more than 110 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Most of these offices are fully staffed with claims adjusters and other service personnel. Our adjusters and service personnel act solely on
behalf and under the instruction of our clients and customers.

While this segment complements our insurance brokerage offerings, more than
90% of our risk management segment’s revenues come from customers not affiliated with our brokerage operations, such as insurance companies and clients of other insurance brokers. Based on revenues, our risk management operation ranked as one
of the world’s largest property/casualty

third-party

claims administrators according to

Business Insurance

magazine’s

March 24, 2016 edition.

We expect that the risk management segment’s most significant growth prospects through the next several years will come from:

•

Increased levels of business with Fortune 1000 companies;

•

Larger middle-market companies, captives;

•

Program business and the outsourcing of insurance company claims departments; and

•

Mergers and acquisitions.

Corporate Segment

The corporate segment
accounted for 24% of our revenues in 2016. The corporate segment reports the financial information related to our debt, clean energy investments, external acquisition-related expenses and other corporate costs. The revenues reported by this segment
in 2016 resulted almost solely from our consolidation of refined fuel operations, of which we control and own more than 50% of those operations. At December 31, 2016, significant investments managed by this segment include:

Clean Coal-Related Ventures

We have a
46.5% interest in

Chem-Mod

LLC

(Chem-Mod),

a privately-held enterprise that has commercialized multi-pollutant reduction technologies to reduce mercury, sulfur dioxide
and other emissions at coal-fired power plants. We also have a 12.0% interest in a privately-held

start-up

enterprise,

C-Quest

Technology LLC, which owns technologies
that reduce carbon dioxide emissions created by burning fossil fuels.

Tax-Advantaged

Investments

In 2009 and 2011, we built a total of 29 commercial clean coal production plants to produce refined coal using

Chem-Mod’s

proprietary technologies and in 2013, we purchased a 99% interest in a limited liability company that has ownership interests in four limited liability companies that own five commercial clean coal
production plants. We believe these operations produce refined coal that qualifies for tax credits under IRC Section 45. The law that provides for IRC Section 45 tax credits substantially expires in December 2019 for the fourteen plants we
built and placed in service in 2009 (2009 Era Plants) and in December 2021 for the fifteen plants we built and placed in service in 2011, plus the five plants we purchased interests in that were placed in service in 2011 (2011 Era Plants).



International Operations

Our total revenues by geographic area for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 were as follows (in millions):

Total revenues generated by our U.K. and Australian based operations decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 due to
unfavorable foreign currency translation. See Notes 6, 17 and 20 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information related to our foreign operations, including goodwill allocation, earnings before income taxes
and identifiable assets, by segment, for 2016, 2015 and 2014.

International and Other Brokerage Related Operations

The majority of our international brokerage operations are in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the U.K., targeting small to
medium enterprise risks.

We operate primarily as a retail commercial property and casualty broker throughout more than 35 locations in
Australia, 35 locations in Canada and 25 locations in New Zealand. In the U.K., we operate as a retail broker from approximately 100 locations. We also have an underwriting operation for clients to access Lloyd’s of London and other
international insurance markets, and a program operation offering customized risk management products and services to U.K. public entities.

In Bermuda, we act principally as a wholesaler for clients looking to access the Bermuda insurance markets and also provide services relating to the
formation and management of offshore captive insurance companies.

We also have strategic brokerage alliances with a variety of independent
brokers in countries where we do not have a local office presence. Through this global network of correspondent insurance brokers and consultants, we are able to fully serve our clients’ coverage and service needs in more than 150 countries
around the world.

Captive insurance companies

- We have ownership interests in several insurance and reinsurance companies based in
the U.S., Bermuda, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Malta that primarily operate segregated account

“rent-a-captive”

facilities. These

“rent-a-captive”

facilities enable our clients to receive the benefits of owning a captive insurance company without incurring certain disadvantages of ownership.
Captive insurance companies, or

“rent-a-captive”

facilities, are created for clients to insure their risks and capture any underwriting profit and investment
income, which would then be available for use by the insureds, generally to reduce future costs of their insurance programs. In general, these companies are set up as protected cell companies that are comprised of separate cell business units (which
we refer to as Captive Cells) and the core regulated company (which we refer to as the Core Company). The Core Company is owned and operated by us and no insurance policies are assumed by the Core Company. All insurance is assumed or written within
individual Captive Cells. Only the activity of the supporting Core Company of the

rent-a-captive

facility is recorded in our consolidated financial statements, including
cash and stockholder’s equity of the legal entity and any expenses incurred to operate the

rent-a-captive

facility. Most Captive Cells reinsure individual lines of
insurance coverage from external insurance companies. In addition, some Captive Cells offer individual lines of insurance coverage from one of our insurance company subsidiaries. The different types of insurance coverage include special property,
general liability, products liability, medical professional liability, other liability and medical stop loss. The policies are generally claims-made. Insurance policies are written by an insurance company and the risk is assumed by each of the
Captive Cells. In general, we structure these operations to have no underwriting risk on a net written basis. In situations where we have assumed underwriting risk on a net written basis, we have managed that exposure by obtaining full collateral
for the underwriting risk we have assumed from our clients. We typically require pledged assets including cash and/or investment accounts or letters of credit to limit our risk.



We have a wholly owned insurance company subsidiary based in the U.S. that cedes all of its insurance risk
to reinsurers or captives under facultative and quota-share treaty reinsurance agreements. These reinsurance arrangements diversify our business and minimize our exposure to losses or hazards of an unusual nature. The ceding of insurance does not
discharge us of our primary liability to the policyholder. In the event that all or any of the reinsuring companies are unable to meet their obligations, we would be liable for such defaulted amounts. Therefore, we are subject to credit risk with
respect to the obligations of our reinsurers or captives. In order to minimize our exposure to losses from reinsurer credit risk and insolvencies, we have managed that exposure by obtaining full collateral for which we typically require pledged
assets, including cash and/or investment accounts or letters of credit, to fully offset the risk. See Note 16 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information related to the insurance activity of our wholly
owned insurance company subsidiary for 2016, 2015 and 2014.

International Risk Management Operations

Our international risk management operations are principally in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Services are similar to those provided in the
U.S. and are provided primarily on behalf of commercial and public entity clients.

See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for information
regarding risks attendant to these foreign operations.

Markets and Marketing

We manage our brokerage operations through a network of more than 600 sales and service offices located throughout the U.S. and in 32 other countries. We manage our third party claims adjusting operations
through a network of more than 110 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Our customer base is highly diversified and includes commercial, industrial, public entity, religious and

not-for-profit

entities. No material part of our business depends upon a single customer or on a few customers. The loss of any one customer would not have a material adverse
effect on our operations. In 2016, our largest single customer accounted for approximately 1% of our revenues from the combined brokerage and risk management segments and our ten largest customers represented 3% of our revenues from the
combined brokerage and risk management segments in the aggregate. Our revenues are geographically diversified, with both domestic and international operations.

Each of our retail and wholesale brokerage operations has a small market-share position and, as a result, we believe has substantial organic growth potential. In addition, each of our retail and wholesale
brokerage operations has the ability to grow through the acquisition of small- to

medium-sized

independent brokerages. See “Business Combinations” below.

While historically we have generally grown our risk management segment organically, and we expect to continue to do so, from time to time we consider
acquisitions for this segment.

We require our employees serving in sales or marketing capacities, plus all of our executive officers, to
enter into agreements with us restricting disclosure of confidential information and solicitation of our clients and prospects upon their termination of employment. The confidentiality and

non-solicitation

provisions of such agreements terminate in the event of a hostile change in control, as defined in the agreements.

Competition

Brokerage Segment

According to

Business Insurance

magazine’s July 18, 2016 edition, we were the world’s fourth largest insurance broker based on
revenues. The insurance brokerage and service business is highly competitive and there are many insurance brokerage and service organizations and individuals throughout the world who actively compete with us in every area of our business.

Our retail and wholesale brokerage operations compete globally with Aon plc, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and Willis Towers
Watson Public Limited Company, each of which has greater worldwide revenues than us. In addition, various other competing firms, such as Jardine Lloyd Thomson Group plc, Wells Fargo Insurance Services, Inc., Brown & Brown Inc., Hub
International Ltd., Lockton Companies, Inc. and USI Holdings Corporation, operate globally or nationally or are strong in a particular region or locality and may have, in that region or locality, an office with revenues as large as or larger than
those of our corresponding local office. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position with other organizations in our industry are the quality of the services we render and the overall costs to our clients. In addition,
for health/welfare products and benefit consultant services, we compete with larger firms such as Aon Hewitt, Mercer (a subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.), Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company;

mid-market

firms such as Lockton, USI Holdings, and Wells Fargo and the benefits consulting divisions of the national public accounting firms, as well as a vast number of local and regional brokerages and agencies.

Our wholesale brokerage and binding operations compete with large wholesalers such as CRC Insurance Services, Inc., RT Specialty, AmWINS
Group, Inc., as well as a vast number of local and regional wholesalers.

We also compete with certain insurance companies that write
insurance directly for their customers. Government benefits relating to health, disability, and retirement are also alternatives to private insurance and indirectly compete with us.



Risk Management Segment

Our risk management operation currently ranks as one of the world’s largest property/casualty third party claims administrators based on revenues, according to

Business Insurance

magazine’s March 24, 2016 edition. While many global and regional claims administrators operate within this space, we compete directly with Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc., Broadspire Services, Inc. (a subsidiary of
Crawford & Company), ESIS (a subsidiary of Chubb Limited) and CorVel. Several large insurance companies, such as Travelers and Liberty Mutual, also maintain their own claims administration units, which can be strong competitors. In
addition, we compete with various smaller third party claims administrators on a regional level. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position are reputation for outstanding service and the ability to resolve
customers’ losses in the most cost-efficient manner possible.

Regulation

We are required to be licensed or receive regulatory approval in nearly every state and foreign jurisdiction in which we do business. In addition, most jurisdictions require individuals who engage in
brokerage, claim adjusting and certain other insurance service activities to be personally licensed. These licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In most jurisdictions, licensing laws and regulations generally grant
broad discretion to supervisory authorities to adopt and amend regulations and to supervise regulated activities.

Business Combinations

We completed and integrated 420 acquisitions from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2016, almost exclusively within our
brokerage segment. The majority of these acquisitions have been smaller regional or local property/casualty retail or wholesale operations with a strong middle-market client focus or significant expertise in one of our niche/practice groups. Over
the last decade, we have also increased our acquisition activity in the retail employee benefits brokerage and wholesale brokerage areas. The total purchase price for individual acquisitions has typically ranged from $1.0 million to
$50.0 million, although in 2014 we completed three large acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price consideration in excess of $1.7 billion.

Through acquisitions, we seek to expand our talent pool, enhance our geographic presence and service capabilities, and/or broaden and further diversify our business mix. We also focus on identifying:

•

A corporate culture that matches our sales-oriented culture;

•

A profitable, growing business whose ability to compete would be enhanced by gaining access to our greater resources; and

•

Clearly defined financial criteria.

See Note 3 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for a summary of our 2016 acquisitions, the amount and form of the consideration paid and the dates of acquisition.

Employees

As of December 31, 2016,
we had approximately 24,800 employees. We continuously review benefits and other matters of interest to our employees and consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form

10-K,

quarterly reports on Form

10-Q,

current reports on Form

8-K,

and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website at

www.ajg.com

as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such
reports may also be read and copied at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the
Securities and Exchange Commission at

(800) SEC-0330.

The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements and other information.



Disclosure pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act

In our Quarterly Reports on Form

10-Q

for the first, second and third quarters of 2016, we disclosed certain
activities required to be reported under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, and such disclosures are incorporated herein by reference. In the fourth quarter of 2016, our U.K. domiciled subsidiary, Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Limited (AJGUK), acted
as insurance broker and advised clients in obtaining insurance coverage for activities related to Iran’s oil, gas and petroleum industries. AJGUK assisted clients in obtaining insurance, reinsurance and retrocession coverage for a variety of
activities in Iran, including insurance coverage for:

•

The supply of crude oil to and from Iran;

•

The transport and storage of oil from Iran;

•

The shipment of heavy fuel oil to and from Iran;

•

The docking and loading of oil shipments in Iran;

•

The operation of vessels providing support services to offshore oil platforms that supply oil to Iran; and

•

Other closely related activities pertaining to the supply and transportation of oil to and from Iran.

On January 16, 2016, the U.S. lifted the nuclear-related “secondary sanctions” imposed against Iran. In connection with this event, the
U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) issued General License H, which authorizes U.S.-owned or U.S.-controlled foreign entities to engage in certain transactions involving Iran that would otherwise be prohibited by
section 560.215 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations.

The activities described above were conducted in full compliance with
General License H. AJGUK generated total gross revenue of approximately $1,718 (in actual dollars) and net profit of approximately $309 (in actual dollars) from these activities.

AJGUK intends to continue acting as an insurance broker in connection with insurance coverages authorized by General License H.

Item

1A

.

Risk Factors.

Risks
Relating to our Business Generally

An overall economic downturn, as well as unstable economic conditions in the countries and regions
in which we operate, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

An overall decline in economic activity
could adversely impact us in future years as a result of reductions in the overall amount of insurance coverage that our clients purchase due to reductions in their headcount, payroll, properties, and the market values of assets, among other
factors. Such reductions could also adversely impact future commission revenues when the carriers perform exposure audits if they lead to subsequent downward premium adjustments. We record the income effects of subsequent premium adjustments when
the adjustments become known and, as a result, any improvement in our results of operations and financial condition may lag an improvement in the economy. In addition, some of our clients may experience liquidity problems or other financial
difficulties in the event of a prolonged deterioration in the economy, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our clients become financially less stable, enter bankruptcy, liquidate their
operations or consolidate, our revenues and collectability of receivables could be adversely affected. Our growing operations in countries and regions undergoing economic downturns, particularly in the U.K., Australia and certain emerging markets,
expose us to risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some of our clients may experience liquidity problems or other financial difficulties in the event of a
prolonged deterioration in the economy, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, approximately 20% of our brokerage segment and approximately 3% of our risk management segment revenues
came from the U.K. in 2016. In a referendum held on June 23, 2016, a majority of voters in the U.K. voted in favor of the U.K. leaving the European Union. This vote to leave has created significant uncertainty regarding the U.K. economic
outlook, and could lead to a decline in economic activity, a recession, or reduced future growth prospects in the U.K., any of which could damage our clients’ confidence and materially and adversely affect our business.

Economic conditions that result in financial difficulties for insurance companies or reduced insurer capacity could adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition.

We have a significant amount of trade accounts receivable from some of the insurance companies with
which we place insurance. If those insurance companies experience liquidity problems or other financial difficulties, we could encounter delays or defaults in payments owed to us, which could have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated
financial condition and results of operations. The failure of an insurer with whom we place business could result in errors and omissions claims against us by our clients, and the failure of errors and omissions insurance carriers could make the
errors and omissions insurance we rely upon cost prohibitive or unavailable, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if carriers merge or if a large carrier fails or withdraws from offering
certain lines of coverage, overall underwriting capacity could be negatively affected, which could reduce our ability to place certain lines of coverage and, as a result, reduce our revenues and profitability.



Volatility or declines in premiums or other adverse trends in the insurance industry may seriously
undermine our profitability.

We derive much of our revenue from commissions and fees for our brokerage services. We do not determine the
insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Moreover, insurance premiums are cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market conditions. Because of market cycles for insurance product pricing, which we cannot predict or
control, our brokerage revenues and profitability can be volatile or remain depressed for significant periods of time.

As traditional
risk-bearing insurance companies continue to outsource the production of premium revenue to

non-affiliated

brokers or agents such as us, those insurance companies may seek to further minimize their expenses by
reducing the commission rates payable to insurance agents or brokers. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly affect our profitability. Because we do not determine the
timing or extent of premium pricing changes, it is difficult to precisely forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. As a result, we may have to adjust our budgets for future acquisitions, capital
expenditures, dividend payments, loan repayments and other expenditures to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may adversely affect the results of our operations.

In addition, there have been and may continue to be various trends in the insurance industry toward alternative insurance markets including, among other
things, greater levels of self-insurance, captives,

rent-a-captives,

risk retention groups and

non-insurance

capital
markets-based solutions to traditional insurance. While, historically, we have been able to participate in certain of these activities on behalf of our customers and obtain fee revenue for such services, there can be no assurance that we will
realize revenues and profitability as favorable as those realized from our traditional brokerage activities. Our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may also be challenged by the growing desire of some clients to compensate brokers
based upon flat fees rather than variable commission rates. This could negatively impact us because fees are generally not indexed for inflation and do not automatically increase with premium as does commission-based compensation.

Contingent and supplemental commissions we receive from insurance companies are less predictable than standard commissions, and any decrease in the
amount of these kinds of commissions we receive could adversely affect our results of operations.

A portion of our revenues consists of
contingent and supplemental commissions we receive from insurance companies. Contingent commissions are paid by insurance companies based upon the profitability, volume and/or growth of the business placed with such companies during the prior year.
Supplemental commissions are commissions paid by insurance companies that are established annually in advance based on historical performance criteria. If, due to the current economic environment or for any other reason, we are unable to meet
insurance companies’ profitability, volume or growth thresholds, or insurance companies increase their estimate of loss reserves (over which we have no control), actual contingent commissions or supplemental commissions we receive could be less
than anticipated, which could adversely affect our results of operations.

We face significant competitive pressures in each of our
businesses.

The insurance brokerage and service business is highly competitive and many insurance brokerage and service organizations
actively compete with us in one or more areas of our business around the world. We compete with three firms in the global risk management and brokerage markets, which have revenues significantly larger than ours. In addition, various other competing
firms that operate nationally or that are strong in a particular country, region or locality may have, in that country, region or locality, an office with revenues as large as or larger than those of our corresponding local office. Our third party
claims administration operation also faces significant competition from stand-alone firms as well as divisions of larger firms.

The primary
factors in determining our competitive position with other organizations in our industry are the quality of the services rendered and the overall costs to our clients. Losing business to competitors offering similar products at lower prices or
having other competitive advantages would adversely affect our business.

In addition, any increase in competition due to new legislative or
industry developments could adversely affect us. These developments include:

•

Increased capital-raising by insurance underwriting companies, which could result in new capital in the industry, which in turn may lead to lower
insurance premiums and commissions;

•

Insurance companies selling insurance directly to insureds without the involvement of a broker or other intermediary;

•

Changes in our business compensation model as a result of regulatory developments;

•

Federal and state governments establishing programs to provide health insurance or, in certain cases, property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas or
other alternative market types of coverage, that compete with, or completely replace, insurance products offered by insurance carriers; and



•

Increased competition from new market participants such as banks, accounting firms, consulting firms and Internet or other technology firms offering
risk management or insurance brokerage services, or new distribution channels for insurance such as payroll firms.

New
competition as a result of these or other competitive or industry developments could cause the demand for our products and services to decrease, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

If we are unable to apply technology effectively in driving value for our clients through technology-based solutions or gain internal efficiencies and
effective internal controls through the application of technology and related tools, our operating results, client relationships, growth and compliance programs could be adversely affected.

Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technology change.
We must also develop and implement technology solutions and technical expertise among our employees that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards, client preferences and internal control standards.
We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely and cost-effective basis and our ideas may not be accepted in the marketplace. Additionally, the effort to gain technological expertise and develop new
technologies in our business requires us to incur significant expenses. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors, or if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies or product offerings, we could experience a
material adverse effect on our operating results, client relationships, growth and compliance programs.

In some cases, we depend on key
vendors and partners to provide technology and other support for our strategic initiatives. If these third parties fail to perform their obligations or cease to work with us, our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives could be adversely
affected.

Damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our reputation is one of our key assets. We advise our clients on and provide services related to a wide range of subjects and our ability to attract and
retain clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business practices, financial condition and other subjective qualities. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these or other matters,
including our association with clients or business partners who themselves have a damaged reputation, or from actual or alleged conduct by us or our employees, could damage our reputation. Any resulting erosion of trust and confidence among existing
and potential clients, regulators, stockholders and other parties important to the success of our business could make it difficult for us to attract new clients and maintain existing ones, which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

We have historically acquired large numbers of insurance brokers, benefits consulting firms
and risk management firms. We may not be able to continue such an acquisition strategy in the future and there are risks associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect our growth and results of operations.

Our acquisition program has been an important part of our historical growth, particularly in our brokerage segment, and we believe that similar
acquisition activity will be important to maintaining comparable growth in the future. Failure to successfully identify and complete acquisitions likely would result in us achieving slower growth. Continuing consolidation in our industry and growing
interest in acquiring insurance brokers on the part of private equity firms and private equity-backed consolidators could make it more difficult for us to identify appropriate targets and could make them more expensive. Even if we are able to
identify appropriate acquisition targets, we may not have sufficient capital to fund acquisitions, be able to execute transactions on favorable terms or integrate targets in a manner that allows us to realize the benefits we have historically
experienced from acquisitions. When regulatory approval of acquisitions is required, our ability to complete acquisitions may be limited by an ongoing regulatory review or other issues with the relevant regulator. Our ability to finance and
integrate acquisitions may also decrease if we complete a greater number of large acquisitions than we have historically.

Post-acquisition
risks include those relating to retention of personnel, retention of clients, entry into unfamiliar markets or lines of business, contingencies or liabilities, such as violations of sanctions laws or anti-corruption laws including the FCPA and U.K.
Bribery Act, risks relating to ensuring compliance with licensing and regulatory requirements, tax and accounting issues, the risk that the acquisition distracts management and personnel from our existing business, and integration difficulties
relating to accounting, information technology, human resources, or organizational culture and fit, some or all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and growth. The failure of acquisition targets to achieve anticipated
revenue and earnings levels could also result in goodwill impairment charges.

We own interests in firms where we do not exercise management
control (such as Jiang Tai Re, our joint venture with Jiang Tai Insurance Brokers in China, or Casanueva Perez S.A.P. de C.V. (Grupo CP) in Mexico) and are therefore unable to direct or manage the business to realize the anticipated benefits,
including mitigation of risks, that could be achieved through full integration.



Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced and qualified
personnel.

Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain both new talent and experienced personnel, including
our senior management, brokers and other key personnel. In addition, we could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of members of our senior management team. The insurance brokerage industry has experienced intense
competition for the services of leading brokers, and in the past we have lost key brokers and groups of brokers, along with their client and business relationships, to competitors. Such departures could lead to the loss of clients and intellectual
property. The loss of our chief executive officer or any of our other senior managers, brokers or other key personnel (including the key personnel that manage our interests in our IRC Section 45 investments), or our inability to identify,
recruit and retain highly skilled personnel, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.

Our substantial operations outside the U.S. expose us to risks different than those we face in the U.S.

In 2016, we generated approximately 31% of our revenues outside the U.S., including in countries where the risk of political and economic uncertainty is
relatively greater than that present in the U.S. and more stable countries. The global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. Adverse geopolitical or economic conditions may temporarily or permanently disrupt our operations
in these countries or create difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. For example, we have substantial operations in India to provide certain back-office services. To date, the dispute between India and Pakistan involving the
Kashmir region, incidents of terrorism in India and general geopolitical uncertainties have not adversely affected our operations in India. However, such factors could potentially affect our operations there in the future. Should our access to these
services be disrupted, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Operating outside the U.S. may
also present other risks that are different from, or greater than, the risks we face doing comparable business in the U.S. These include, among others, risks relating to:

•

Maintaining awareness of and complying with a wide variety of labor practices and foreign laws, including those relating to export and import duties,
environmental policies and privacy issues, as well as laws and regulations applicable to U.S. business operations abroad. These and other international regulatory risks are described below under “Regulatory, Legal and Accounting Risks;”

•

The potential costs, difficulties and risks associated with local regulations across the globe, including the risk of personal liability for directors
and officers and “piercing the corporate veil” risks under the corporate law regimes of certain countries;

•

Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;

•

Less flexible employee relationships, which may limit our ability to prohibit employees from competing with us after they are no longer employed with
us or recovering damages in the event they do so, and may make it more difficult and expensive to terminate their employment;

•

Political and economic instability, including in the U.K., the Eurozone, Australia and certain emerging markets (including risks relating to
undeveloped or evolving legal systems, unstable governments, acts of terrorism and outbreaks of war);

•

Coordinating our communications and logistics across geographic distances and multiple time zones, including during times of crisis management;

•

Adverse trade policies, and adverse changes to any of the policies of the U.S. or any of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate;

•

Unfavorable audits and exposure to additional liabilities relating to various

non-income

taxes (such as
payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes) in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, discriminatory or confiscatory taxation,
changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation and the financial results of our international subsidiaries. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development issued reports and
recommendations as part of its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project (BEPS), and in response many countries in which we do business are expected to adopt rules which may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax
obligations are determined. For example, in response to BEPS, the U.K. adopted rules in 2016 that will affect the deductibility of interest paid on intercompany debt, and other jurisdictions where we operate, including Australia and New Zealand, may
do so as well in the near future;

•

Legal or political constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices;

•

Cash balances held in foreign banks and institutions where governments have not specifically enacted formal guarantee programs;

•

Lost business or other financial harm due to governmental actions affecting the flow of goods, services and currency, including protectionist policies
that discriminate in favor of local competitors; and

•

Governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds to us from our operations outside the U.S.



Following the recent presidential election in the U.S., the foreign and international trade policies of the
U.S. could change in ways that exacerbate the risks described above, or introduce new risks for our international operations. If any of these risks materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Significant changes in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.

A large and growing portion of our business is located outside the U.S. Some of our foreign subsidiaries receive revenues or incur obligations in
currencies that differ from their functional currencies. We must also translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Although we have used foreign currency hedging strategies in the past and currently have some in
place, such risks cannot be eliminated entirely, and significant changes in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. In the U.K., the vote to leave the European Union may result in substantial volatility in foreign exchange
markets and may lead to a sustained weakness in the British pound’s exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. Any significant weakening of the British pound to the U.S. dollar will have an adverse impact on our brokerage and risk management
segment revenues and earnings as reported in U.S. dollars.

We face a variety of risks in our third party claims administration operations
that are distinct from those we face in our brokerage operations.

Our third party claims administration operations face a variety of risks
distinct from those faced by our brokerage operations, including the risks that:

•

The favorable trend among both insurers and insureds toward outsourcing various types of claims administration and risk management services will
reverse or slow, causing our revenues or revenue growth to decline;

•

Concentration of large amounts of revenue with certain clients results in greater exposure to the potential negative effects of lost business due to
changes in management at such clients or changes in state government policies, in the case of our government-entity clients, or for other reasons;

•

Contracting terms will become less favorable or that the margins on our services will decrease due to increased competition, regulatory constraints or
other developments;

•

We will not be able to satisfy regulatory requirements related to third party administrators or that regulatory developments (including unanticipated
regulatory developments relating to security and data privacy outside the U.S.) will impose additional burdens, costs or business restrictions that make our business less profitable;

•

Economic weakness or a slow-down in economic activity could lead to a reduction in the number of claims we process;

•

If we do not control our labor and technology costs, we may be unable to remain competitive in the marketplace and profitably fulfill our existing
contracts (other than those that provide cost-plus or other margin protection);

•

We may be unable to develop further efficiencies in our claims-handling business and may be unable to obtain or retain certain clients if we fail to
make adequate improvements in technology or operations; and

•

Insurance companies or certain insurance consumers may create

in-house

servicing capabilities that compete with
our third party administration and other administration, servicing and risk management products.

If any of these risks
materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Sustained increases in the cost of employee
benefits could reduce our profitability.

The cost of current employees’ medical and other benefits, as well as pension retirement
benefits and postretirement medical benefits under our legacy defined benefit plans, substantially affects our profitability. In the past, we have occasionally experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors
beyond our control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. A significant decrease in the value of our defined
benefit pension plan assets or decreases in the interest rates used to discount the pension plans’ liabilities could cause an increase in pension plan costs in future years. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs,
we can make no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce our profitability.

Our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster, cybersecurity attack or other disruption to business continuity could have a material adverse effect on our operations, damage our
reputation and impact client relationships.

Our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected, even in the
short-term, by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. For example, our third party claims administration operation is highly dependent on the continued and efficient functioning of
RISX-FACS

®

, our proprietary risk management information system, to provide clients with insurance claim
settlement and administration services.



Disruptions could be caused by, among other things, restricted physical site access, terrorist activities,
disease pandemics, cybersecurity attacks, or outages to electrical, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. We have disaster recovery procedures in place and insurance to protect against
such contingencies. However, such procedures may not be effective and any insurance or recovery procedures may not continue to be available at reasonable prices and may not address all such losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients or
increase in claims and lawsuits directed against us because of any period during which we are unable to provide services. We anticipate moving our corporate headquarters during the first quarter of 2017. Any major disruption in the move, or our
inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other disruption to business continuity could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The occurrence of such events could also cause reputational harm and damage our
client relationships.

Regulatory, Legal and Accounting Risks

Improper disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary data, whether due to human error, misuse of information by employees or vendors, or as a result of cyberattacks, could result in regulatory
scrutiny, legal liability or reputational harm, and could have an adverse effect on our business or operations.

We maintain confidential,
personal and proprietary information relating to our company, our employees and our clients. This information includes personally identifiable information, protected health information and financial information. In many jurisdictions, particularly
in the U.S. and the European Union, we are subject to laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of this information. These laws apply to transfers of information among our affiliates, as well as to
transactions we enter into with third party vendors.

We have from time to time experienced cybersecurity breaches, such as computer viruses,
unauthorized parties gaining access to our information technology systems and similar incidents, which to date have not had a material impact on our business. In the future, these types of incidents could disrupt the security of our internal systems
and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our clients and protect the privacy of their data, compromise confidential business information, result in intellectual property or other confidential information being lost or
stolen, including client, employee or company data, which could harm our competitive position or otherwise adversely affect our business. Cyber threats are constantly evolving, which makes it more difficult to detect cybersecurity incidents, assess
their severity or impact in a timely manner, and successfully defend against them.

We maintain policies, procedures and technical safeguards
designed to protect the security and privacy of confidential, personal and proprietary information. Nonetheless, we cannot eliminate the risk of human error or inadequate safeguards against employee or vendor malfeasance. It is possible that the
steps we follow, including our security controls over personal data and training of employees on data security, may not prevent improper access to, disclosure of, or misuse of confidential, personal or proprietary information. This could cause harm
to our reputation, create legal exposure, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.

Significant costs are involved with maintaining system safeguards for our technology infrastructure. If we are unable to effectively maintain and upgrade our system safeguards, including in connection
with the integration of acquisitions, we may incur unexpected costs and certain of our systems may become more vulnerable to unauthorized access.

With respect to our commercial arrangements with third party vendors, we have processes designed to require third party IT outsourcing, offsite storage and other vendors to agree to maintain certain
standards with respect to the storage, protection and transfer of confidential, personal and proprietary information. However, we remain at risk of a data breach due to the intentional or unintentional

non-compliance

by a vendor’s employee or agent, the breakdown of a vendor’s data protection processes, or a cyber attack on a vendor’s information systems.

Data privacy is subject to frequently changing laws, rules and regulations in the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate. For example,
in 2015, the European Court of Justice invalidated a key safe harbor relied upon by many businesses to transfer personal data legally from the European Union to the U.S. There is a growing body of international data protection law, which, in part,
includes security breach notification obligations, more stringent operational requirements and significant penalties for

non-compliance.

In addition, legislators in the U.S. are proposing new and more robust
cybersecurity legislation in light of the recent broad-based cyberattacks at a number of companies. These and similar initiatives around the world could increase the cost of developing, implementing or securing our servers and require us to allocate
more resources to improved technologies, adding to our IT and compliance costs. Our failure to adhere to, or successfully implement processes in response to, changing legal or regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or
damage to our reputation in the marketplace.



We are subject to regulation worldwide. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if
regulations change in a way that adversely affects our operations, we may not be able to conduct our business, or we may be less profitable.

Many of our activities throughout the world are subject to regulatory supervision and regulations promulgated by bodies such as the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC), the Department of Justice (DOJ), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) in the U.S., the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the U.K., the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission in Australia and insurance regulators in nearly every jurisdiction in which we operate. Our activities are also subject to a variety of other laws, rules and regulations addressing licensing, data privacy,

wage-and-hour

standards, employment and labor relations, anti-competition, anti-corruption, currency, reserves and the amount of local investment with respect to our
operations in certain countries. This regulatory supervision could reduce our profitability or growth by increasing the costs of compliance, restricting the products or services we sell, the markets we enter, the methods by which we sell our
products and services, or the prices we can charge for our services and the form of compensation we can accept from our clients, carriers and third parties. As our operations grow around the world, it is increasingly difficult to monitor and enforce
regulatory compliance across the organization. A compliance failure by even one of our smallest branches could lead to litigation and/or disciplinary actions that may include compensating clients for loss, the imposition of penalties and the
revocation of our authorization to operate. In all such cases, we would also likely incur significant internal investigation costs and legal fees.

The global nature of our operations increases the complexity and cost of compliance with laws and regulations, including increased staffing needs, the development of new policies, procedures and internal
controls and providing training to employees in multiple locations, adding to our cost of doing business. Many of these laws and regulations may have differing or conflicting legal standards across jurisdictions, increasing further the complexity
and cost of compliance. In emerging markets and other jurisdictions with less developed legal systems, local laws and regulations may not be established with sufficiently clear and reliable guidance to provide us with adequate assurance that we are
aware of all necessary licenses to operate our business, that we are operating our business in a compliant manner, or that our rights are otherwise protected. In addition, in light of recent events associated with the planned exit of the U.K. from
the European Union, we will likely face new regulatory costs and challenges. For example, our U.K. operations could lose their European Union financial services passport which provides them the license to operate across borders within the single
European Union market without obtaining local regulatory approval.

Changes in legislation or regulations and actions by regulators, including
changes in administration and enforcement policies, could from time to time require operational changes that could result in lost revenues or higher costs or hinder our ability to operate our business.

For example, the method by which insurance brokers are compensated has received substantial scrutiny in the past because of the potential for conflicts
of interest. The potential for conflicts of interest arises when a broker is compensated by two parties in connection with the same or similar transactions. The vast majority of the compensation we receive for our work as insurance brokers is in the
form of retail commissions and fees. We receive additional revenue from insurance companies, separate from retail commissions and fees, including, among other things, contingent and supplemental commissions and payments for consulting and analytics
services provided to insurance carriers. Future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect these additional revenue streams. Adverse regulatory, legal or other developments regarding these revenues could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, expose us to negative publicity and reputational damage and harm our client, insurer or other relationships.

We could be adversely affected by violations or alleged violations of laws that impose requirements for the conduct of our overseas operations, including the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other
anti-corruption laws, sanctioned parties restrictions, and FATCA.

In foreign countries where we operate, a risk exists that our employees,
third party partners or agents could engage in business practices prohibited by applicable laws and regulations, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act. Such anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies from making improper payments to
foreign officials and require companies to keep accurate books and records and maintain appropriate internal controls. Our policies mandate strict compliance with such laws and we devote substantial resources to programs to ensure compliance.
However, we operate in some parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption, and, in certain circumstances, local customs and practice might not be consistent with the requirements of anti-corruption laws. In addition, in recent
years, two of the five publicly traded insurance brokerage firms were investigated in the U.S. and the U.K. for improper payments to foreign officials. These firms undertook internal investigations and paid significant settlements.

We remain subject to the risk that our employees, third party partners or agents will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies
and violate such laws and regulations. Violations by us or a third party acting on our behalf could result in significant internal investigation costs and legal fees, civil and criminal penalties, including prohibitions on the conduct of our
business, and reputational harm.

We may also be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we violate U.S. trade sanctions
administered by OFAC, the European Union and the United Nations, and trade sanction laws such as the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012.



In addition, FATCA requires certain of our subsidiaries, affiliates and other entities to obtain valid FATCA
documentation from payees prior to remitting certain payments to such payees. In the event we do not obtain valid FATCA documents, we may be obliged to withhold a portion of such payments. This obligation is shared with our customers and clients who
may fail to comply, in whole or in part. In such circumstances, we may incur FATCA compliance costs including withholding taxes, interest and penalties. In addition, regulatory initiatives and changes in the regulations and guidance promulgated
under FATCA may increase our costs of operations, and could adversely affect the market for our services as intermediaries, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Our business could be negatively impacted if we are unable to adapt our services to changes resulting from the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation.

The 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation, among other things, increases the level of regulatory complexity for companies that offer health
and welfare benefits to their employees, and continues to be amended through regulations issued by various government agencies. Initiatives by the incoming presidential administration to change certain aspects of this legislation may increase such
complexity. Many clients of our brokerage segment purchase health and welfare products for their employees and, therefore, are impacted by the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation. We have made significant investments in product and knowledge
development to assist clients as they navigate the complex requirements of this legislation. Depending on future changes to health legislation, these investments may not yield returns. In addition, if we are unable to adapt our services to changes
resulting from this law and any subsequent regulations, our ability to grow our business or to provide effective services, particularly in our employee benefits consulting business, will be negatively impacted. In addition, if our clients reduce the
role or extent of employer sponsored health care in response to this or any other law, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.

We are subject to a number of contingencies and legal proceedings which, if determined unfavorably to us, would adversely affect our financial
results.

We are subject to numerous claims, tax assessments, lawsuits and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Such
claims, lawsuits and other proceedings could, for example, include claims for damages based on allegations that our employees or

sub-agents

improperly failed to procure coverage, report claims on behalf of
clients, provide insurance companies with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured, or provide clients with appropriate consulting, advisory and claims handling services. There is the risk that our employees or

sub-agents

may fail to appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients on a fiduciary basis. Certain of our benefits and retirement consultants provide investment advice or decision-making services to
clients. If these clients experience investment losses, our reputation could be damaged and our financial results could be negatively affected as a result of claims asserted against us and lost business. We have established provisions against these
potential matters that we believe are adequate in light of current information and legal advice, and we adjust such provisions from time to time based on current material developments. The damages claimed in such matters are or may be substantial,
including, in many instances, claims for punitive, treble or other extraordinary damages. It is possible that, if the outcomes of these contingencies and legal proceedings were not favorable to us, it could materially adversely affect our future
financial results. In addition, our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely affected if, in the future, our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or we experience an increase in liabilities for
which we self-insure. We have purchased errors and omissions insurance and other insurance to provide protection against losses that arise in such matters. Accruals for these items, net of insurance receivables, when applicable, have been provided
to the extent that losses are deemed probable and are reasonably estimable. These accruals and receivables are adjusted from time to time as current developments warrant.

As more fully described in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements, we are a defendant in various legal actions incidental to our business, including but not limited to matters related to
employment practices, alleged breaches of

non-compete

or other restrictive covenants, theft of trade secrets, breaches of fiduciary duties, intellectual property infringement and related causes of action. We
are also periodically the subject of inquiries and investigations by regulatory and taxing authorities into various matters related to our business. For example, our micro-captive advisory services are currently the subject of an investigation by
the IRS. In addition, we were named in a lawsuit asserting that we, our subsidiary, Gallagher Clean Energy, LLC, and

Chem-Mod

LLC are liable for infringement of a patent held by Nalco Company. An adverse
outcome in connection with one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any given quarterly or annual period, or on an ongoing basis. In addition, regardless of
any eventual monetary costs, any such matter could expose us to negative publicity, reputational damage, harm to our client or employee relationships, or diversion of personnel and management resources, which could adversely affect our ability to
recruit quality brokers and other significant employees to our business, and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations.



Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and
operating results.

We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (which we refer to
as GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our consolidated financial
statements. We are also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those relating to the valuation of
goodwill and other intangible assets, investments (including our IRC Section 45 investments), income taxes, stock-based compensation, claims handling obligations, retirement plans, litigation and contingencies. We base our estimates on
historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on specific circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Additionally, changes in accounting standards (such as new standards relating to
revenue recognition and leases) could increase costs to the organization and could have an adverse impact on our future financial position and results of operations. See Note 2 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for information with
respect to the potential impacts the new standards relating to revenue recognition and leases could have on our future financial position and operating results.

Risks Relating to our Investments, Debt and Common Stock

Our clean energy investments
are subject to various risks and uncertainties.

We have invested in clean energy operations capable of producing refined coal that we
believe qualify for tax credits under IRC Section 45.

See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of
these investments. Our ability to generate returns and avoid write-offs in connection with these investments is subject to various risks and uncertainties.

These include, but are not limited to, the risks and uncertainties set forth below.

•

Availability of the tax credits under IRC Section

45.

Our ability to claim tax credits under IRC Section 45 depends upon
the operations in which we have invested satisfying certain ongoing conditions set forth in IRC Section 45. These include, among others, the emissions reduction, “qualifying technology”,

“placed-in-service”

and coal sales to unrelated parties requirements of IRC Section 45, as well as the requirement that at least one of the operations’ owners qualifies as a
“producer” of refined coal. While we have received some degree of confirmation from the IRS relating to our ability to claim these tax credits, the IRS could ultimately determine that the operations have not satisfied, or have not
continued to satisfy, the conditions set forth in IRC Section 45.

•

Value of the tax credits.

The value of the tax credits could be impacted by changes in the tax code as a result of the recent presidential and
congressional elections in the U.S. Congress could modify or repeal IRC Section 45 and remove the tax credits (either prospectively or through the elimination of the carryover of the credits), which might adversely affect the value of our
investment. Also, if Congress reduces tax rates as proposed, although we would pay less in taxes overall, it would reduce the tax benefit of operating costs associated with the production of refined coal.

•

Co-investor tax credit risks.

We have co-investors in several of the operations currently producing refined coal, and are working to negotiate
arrangements with potential co-investors for the purchase of equity stakes in other operations. If no satisfactory arrangements can be reached with these potential co-investors, or if in the future any one of our co-investors leaves a project, we
could have difficulty finding replacements in a timely manner. On February 10, 2017, one of the refined coal partnerships in which we are an investor received a notice from the IRS setting forth its view that certain of our

co-investors

are unable to claim tax credits based on the structure of their partnership interests. The IRS notice does not challenge the validity of the tax credits or our ability to utilize tax credits. Our
co-investors have the right to appeal and defend their position in tax court. While it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any such appeal, an adverse ruling would likely make it more difficult for us to reach satisfactory
arrangements with new co-investors. We could also be subject to claims against us from the

co-investors

affected by this IRS notice.

•

Operational risks.

Chem-Mod’s multi-pollutant reduction technologies (The
Chem-Mod

TM

Solution) require chemicals that may not be
readily available in the marketplace at reasonable costs. Utilities that use the technologies could be idled for various reasons, including operational or environmental problems at the plants or in the boilers, disruptions in the supply or
transportation of coal, revocation of their Chem-Mod technologies environmental permits, labor strikes, force majeure events such as hurricanes, or terrorist attacks, any of which could halt or impede the operations. Long-term operations using
Chem-Mod’s multi-pollutant reduction technologies could also lead to unforeseen technical or other problems not evident in the short- or medium-term. A serious injury or death of a worker connected with the production of refined coal using

Chem-Mod’s

technologies could expose the operations to material liabilities, jeopardizing our investment, and could lead to reputational harm. In the event of any such operational problems, we may not be able
to take full advantage of the tax credits. We could also be exposed to risk due to our lack of control over the operations if future developments, for example a regulatory change affecting public and private companies differently, causes our
interests and those of our co-investors to diverge. Finally, our partners responsible for operation and management could fail to run the operations in compliance with IRC Section 45. If any of these developments occur, our investment returns
may be negatively impacted.



•

Market demand for coal

. When the price of natural gas and/or oil declines relative to that of coal, some utilities may choose to burn natural
gas or oil instead of coal. Market demand for coal may also decline as a result of an economic slowdown or mild weather and a corresponding decline in the use of electricity. Sustained low natural gas prices may also cause utilities to phase out or
close existing coal-fired power plants. If utilities burn less coal or eliminate coal in the production of electricity, the availability of the tax credits would also be reduced.

•

Environmental concerns regarding coal.

Environmental concerns about greenhouse gases, toxic wastewater discharges and the potential hazardous
nature of coal combustion waste could lead to public pressure to reduce, or regulations that discourage, the burning of coal. For example, regulations could mandate that electric power generating companies purchase a minimum amount of power from
renewable energy sources such as wind, hydroelectric, solar and geothermal.

•

Demand for commercial refined coal plants.

The implementation of environmental regulations regarding certain pollution control and permitting
requirements has been delayed from time to time due to various lawsuits. The uncertainty created by litigation and reconsiderations of rule-making by the Environmental Protection Agency could negatively impact power generational facilities’
demand for commercial refined coal plants, should we need to move them as described below.

•

Incompatible coal.

If utilities purchase coal of a quality or type incompatible with their boilers and operations, treating such coal through a
commercial refined coal plant could magnify the negative impacts of burning such coal. As a result, refined coal plants at such utilities may be removed from production until the incompatible coal has all been burned, which could cause us to be
unable to take full advantage of the tax credits.

•

Moving a commercial refined coal plant.

Changes in circumstances, such as those described above, may cause a commercial refined coal plant to be
moved to a different power generation facility, which could require us to invest additional capital. Three plants do not currently have long-term production contracts, and may have to be moved once negotiations for such contracts are finalized. In
addition, if for any reason one or more of these operations are unable to satisfy regulatory permitting requirements and the utilities at which they are installed are unable to timely obtain long-term permits, we may not be able to generate
additional earnings from these operations.

•

Intellectual property risks.

There is a risk that foreign laws will not protect the intellectual property associated with The

Chem-Mod™

Solution to the same extent as U.S. laws, leaving us vulnerable to companies outside the U.S. who may attempt to copy such intellectual property. In addition, other companies may make claims of
intellectual property infringement with respect to The

Chem-Mod™

Solution. Such intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could require that

Chem-Mod

(or
us and our investment and operational partners) obtain a license to use the intellectual property, which might not be obtainable on favorable terms, if at all. In July 2014, we were named in a lawsuit asserting that we and other defendants are
liable for infringement of a patent held by Nalco Company. In response, we filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on behalf of all defendants, alleging no infringement of Nalco’s intellectual property. This motion and similar motions attacking
amended complaints filed by Nalco, were granted. On April 20, 2016 the court dismissed Nalco’s complaint and disallowed any further opportunity to amend or refile. Although Nalco has appealed this ruling, we believe that the probability of
a material loss is remote. However, litigation is inherently uncertain and it is not possible to predict the ultimate disposition of this proceeding. If

Chem-Mod

(or we and our investment and operational
partners) cannot defeat or defend this or other such claims or obtain necessary licenses on reasonable terms, the operations may be precluded from using The

Chem-Mod™

Solution.

•

Strategic alternatives risk.

While we currently expect to continue to hold at least a portion of these refined coal investments, if for any
reason in the future we decide to sell more of our interests, the discount rate on future cash flows could be excessive, and could result in an impairment on our investment.

•

IRC Section

45 phase out provisions

. IRC Section 45 contains phase out provisions based upon the market price of coal,
such that, if the price of coal rises to specified levels, we could lose some or all of the tax credits we expect to receive from these investments.



The IRC Section 45 operations in which we have invested and the

by-products

from such operations may result in environmental and product liability claims and environmental compliance costs.

The construction and operation of the IRC Section 45 operations are subject to Federal, state and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or
preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. Such laws and regulations generally require the operations and/or the utilities at which the operations are located to obtain and comply with various environmental
registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. There are costs associated with ensuring compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and failure to fully comply with all applicable laws and regulations could lead to the
imposition of penalties or other liability. Failure of The

Chem-Mod™

Solution utilized at coal-fired generation facilities, for example, could result in violations of air emissions permits, which could
lead to the imposition of penalties or other liability. Additionally, some environmental laws, without regard to fault or the legality of a party’s conduct, on certain entities that are considered to have contributed to, or are otherwise
responsible for, the release or threatened release of hazardous substances into the environment. One party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its share or the entire share of investigation and cleanup costs at a site if
payments or participation cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. By using The

Chem-Mod™

Solution at locations owned and operated by others, we and our partners may be exposed to the risk of
being held liable for environmental damage from releases of hazardous substances we may have had little, if any, involvement in creating. Such risk remains even after production ceases at an operation to the extent the environmental damage can be
traced to the types of chemicals or compounds used or operations conducted in connection with The

Chem-Mod™

Solution. In addition, we and our partners could face the risk of environmental and product
liability claims related to concrete incorporating fly ash produced using The

Chem-Mod™

Solution. No assurances can be given that contractual arrangements and precautions taken to ensure assumption of
these risks by facility owners or operators, or other end users, will result in that facility owner or operator, or other end user, accepting full responsibility for any environmental or product liability claim. Nor can we or our partners be certain
that facility owners or operators, or other end users, will fully comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and this could result in environmental or product liability claims. It is also not uncommon for private claims by third parties
alleging contamination to also include claims for personal injury, property damage, nuisance, diminution of property value, or similar claims. Furthermore, many environmental, health and safety laws authorize citizen suits, permitting third parties
to make claims for violations of laws or permits. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risk and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event of an environmental or product liability claim, and defense of such claims can be
costly, even when such defense prevails. If significant uninsured losses arise from environmental or product liability claims, or if the costs of environmental compliance increase for any reason, our results of operations and financial condition
could be adversely affected.

We have historically benefited from IRC Section 29 tax credits and that law expired on
December 31, 2007. The disallowance of IRC Section 29 tax credits would likely cause a material loss.

The law permitting us to
claim IRC Section 29 tax credits related to our synthetic coal operations expired on December 31, 2007. We believe our claim for IRC Section 29 tax credits in 2007 and prior years is in accordance with IRC Section 29 and four
private letter rulings previously obtained by IRC

Section 29-related

limited liability companies in which we had an interest. We understand these private letter rulings are consistent with those issued to
other taxpayers and have received no indication from the IRS that it will seek to revoke or modify them. However, while our synthetic coal operations are not currently under audit, the IRS could place those operations under audit and an adverse
outcome may cause a material loss or cause us to be subject to liability under indemnification obligations related to prior sales of partnership interests in partnerships claiming IRC Section 29 tax credits. For additional information about the
potential negative effects of adverse tax audits and related indemnification contingencies, see the discussion on IRC Section 29 tax credits included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”

We have debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility and subjects us to restrictions and
limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business.

As of December 31, 2016, we had total consolidated
debt outstanding of approximately $2.7 billion. The level of debt outstanding each period could adversely affect our financial flexibility. We also bear risk at the time debt matures. Our ability to make interest and principal payments, to
refinance our debt obligations and to fund our acquisition program and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive,
legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, such as an environment of rising interest rates. It will also reduce the ability to use that cash for other purposes, including working capital, dividends to stockholders,
acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases, and general corporate purposes. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures,
strategic acquisitions, and investments, any of which could impede the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such
actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.



The agreements governing our debt contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to
dispose of assets, incur additional debt, engage in certain asset sales, mergers, acquisitions or similar transactions, create liens on assets, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, change our business or make investments, and require us
to comply with certain financial covenants. The restrictions in the agreements governing our debt may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and our stockholders and may make it difficult for us
to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional or more restrictive covenants that could affect our
financial and operational flexibility, including our ability to pay dividends. We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. A failure to comply with the
restrictions under the agreements governing our debt could result in a default under the financing obligations or could require us to obtain waivers from our lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions. The occurrence of a default that
remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could cause our obligations with respect to our debt to be accelerated and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries.

We are organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. As a holding company without
significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders,
repurchasing our common stock and for corporate expenses. In the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and other payments to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations, pay dividends on or
repurchase our common stock.

Further, we derive a significant portion of our revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located
outside the U.S. Since the majority of financing obligations as well as dividends to stockholders are paid from the U.S., it is important to be able to access the cash generated by our operating subsidiaries located outside the U.S in the event we
are unable to meet these U.S. based cash requirements.

Funds from our operating subsidiaries outside the U.S. may be repatriated to the U.S.
via stockholder distributions and intercompany financings, where necessary. A number of factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or make repatriation cost prohibitive, including, but not limited to the imposition of
currency controls and other government restrictions on repatriation in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the imposition of withholding and other taxes on such payments and our ability to
repatriate earnings in a

tax-efficient

manner.

In the event we are unable to generate or repatriate
cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate and our ability to finance our obligations, including to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, could be adversely
affected.

Future sales or other dilution of our equity could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

We grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is
through the issuance of additional equity securities. The issuance of any additional shares of common or of preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Moreover, to the extent that we
issue restricted stock units, performance stock units, options or warrants to purchase our shares of our common stock in the future and those options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units or performance stock units vest, our
stockholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could
result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of our common stock or the perception that such sales could occur.

The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at
times or at prices you find attractive.

The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors,
including the risk factors described above, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These
broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:

•

General economic and political conditions such as recessions, economic downturns and acts of war or terrorism;

•

Quarterly variations in our operating results;

•

Seasonality of our business cycle;



•

Changes in the market’s expectations about our operating results;

•

Our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;

•

Changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us or the insurance brokerage or financial services industries in
general;

•

Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;

•

News reports relating to trends in our markets, including any expectations regarding an upcoming “hard” or “soft” market;

•

Changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;

•

Material announcements by us or our competitors;

•

The impact or perceived impact of developments relating to our investments, including the possible perception by securities analysts or investors that
such investments divert management attention from our core operations;

•

Market volatility;

•

A negative market reaction to announced acquisitions;

•

Competitive pressures in each of our segments;

•

General conditions in the insurance brokerage and insurance industries;

•

Legal proceedings or regulatory investigations;

•

Regulatory requirements, including international sanctions and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 or other
anti-corruption laws;

•

Quarter-to-quarter

volatility in the earnings impact of IRC
Section 45 tax credits from our clean energy investments, due to the application of accounting standards applicable to the recognition of tax credits; and

•

Sales of substantial amounts of common shares by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could
occur.

Stockholder class action lawsuits may be instituted against us following a period of volatility in our stock price.
Any such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management’s attention and resources.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

Not applicable.

Item 2. Properties.

The executive offices of our corporate segment and certain subsidiary and branch facilities of our brokerage and risk management segments are located at
Two Pierce Place, Itasca, Illinois, where we lease approximately 306,000 square feet of space, or approximately 60% of the building. The lease commitment on this property expires on February 28, 2018. We plan to relocate our headquarters to the
city of Rolling Meadows, Illinois (a suburb of Chicago approximately 4 miles from our current location) during early 2017.

Elsewhere, we
generally operate in leased premises related to the facilities of our brokerage and risk management operations. We prefer to lease office space rather than own real estate related to the branch facilities of our brokerage and risk management
segments. Certain of our office space leases have options permitting renewals for additional periods. In addition to minimum fixed rentals, a number of our leases contain annual escalation clauses generally related to increases in an inflation
index. See Note 15 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for information with respect to our lease commitments as of December 31, 2016.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

Not applicable.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.

Not applicable.



Executive Officers

Our executive officers are as follows:

*

Mr. Ziebell was designated as an executive officer in January 2017.

We have employed each such person principally in management capacities for more than the past five years. All executive officers are appointed annually and serve at the pleasure of our board of directors.

Part II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, trading under the symbol “AJG.” The following table sets forth information as to the
price range of our common stock for the

two-year

period from January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2016 and the dividends declared per common share for such period. The table reflects the range of
high and low sales prices per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite listing.

As of January 31, 2017, there were approximately 1,000 holders of record of our common stock.



(c) Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following table shows the purchases of our common stock made by or on behalf of Gallagher or any “affiliated purchaser” (as such term is defined in Rule

10b-18(a)(3)

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of Gallagher for each fiscal month in the three-month period ended December 31, 2016:

(1)

Amounts in this column represent shares of our common stock purchased by the trustees of rabbi trusts established under our Deferred Equity Participation Plan (which we
refer to as the DEPP), our Deferred Cash Participation Plan (which we refer to as the DCPP) and our Supplemental Savings and Thrift Plan (which we refer to as the Supplemental Plan), respectively. The DEPP is a

non-qualified

deferred compensation plan that generally provides for distributions to certain of our key executives when they reach age 62 (or the

one-year

anniversary
of the date of the grant for participants over the age of 61 as of the grant date) or upon or after their actual retirement. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in this report for more information regarding the DEPP. The DCPP is a

non-qualified

deferred compensation plan for certain key employees, other than executive officers, that generally provides for vesting and/or distributions no sooner than five years from the date of awards. Under
the terms of the DEPP and the DCPP, we may contribute cash to the rabbi trust and instruct the trustee to acquire a specified number of shares of our common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions based on participant
elections. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we instructed the rabbi trustee for the DEPP and the DCPP to reinvest dividends paid into the plans in our common stock and to purchase our common stock using the cash that was funded into these plans
related to the 2016 awards. The Supplemental Plan is an unfunded,

non-qualified

deferred compensation plan that allows certain highly compensated employees to defer amounts, including company match amounts, on
a

before-tax

basis or

after-tax

basis. Under the terms of the Supplemental Plan, all cash deferrals and company match amounts may be deemed invested, at the
employee’s election, in a number of investment options that include various mutual funds, an annuity product and a fund representing our common stock. When an employee elects to deem his or her amounts under the Supplemental Plan invested in
the fund representing our common stock, the trustee of the rabbi trust purchases the number of shares of our common stock equivalent to the amount deemed invested in the fund representing our common stock. We established the rabbi trusts for the
DEPP, the DCPP and the Supplemental Plan to assist us in discharging our deferred compensation obligations under these plans. All assets of the rabbi trusts, including any shares of our common stock purchased by the trustees, remain, at all times,
assets of the Company, subject to the claims of our creditors. The terms of the DEPP, the DCPP and the Supplemental Plan do not provide for a specified limit on the number of shares of common stock that may be purchased by the respective trustees of
the rabbi trusts.

(2)

The average price paid per share is calculated on a settlement basis and does not include commissions.

(3)

We have a common stock repurchase plan that the board of directors adopted on May 10, 1988 and has periodically amended since that date to authorize additional
shares for repurchase (the last amendment was on January 24, 2008). We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock under the repurchase plan during the fourth quarter of 2016. The repurchase plan has no expiration date and we are under no
commitment or obligation to repurchase any particular amount of our common stock under the plan. At our discretion, we may suspend the repurchase plan at any time.



Item 6. Selected Financial Data.

The following selected consolidated financial data for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2016 have been derived from our
consolidated financial statements. Such data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 of this annual report.

(1)

Based on the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the year.

(2)

Based on the total dividends declared on a share of common stock outstanding during the entire year.

(3)

Represents net earnings divided by total stockholders’ equity, as of the beginning of the year.

(4)

Prior to September 1, 2016, most of Gallagher’s India-based workforce was provided by a third-party on a cost-pass-through basis. During the third quarter of
2016, Gallagher consummated a transaction whereby it now directly employees those associates, thereby adding approximately 2,700 employees to our global workforce counts shown above. We revised the workforce number as of December 31, 2015,
2014, 2013 and 2012 to conform to the current period presentation.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.

Introduction

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of this annual report. In addition, please see
“Information Regarding

Non-GAAP

Measures and Other” beginning on page 31 for a reconciliation of the

non-GAAP

measures for adjusted total revenues,
organic commission, fee and supplemental commission revenues and adjusted EBITDAC to the comparable GAAP measures, as well as other important information regarding these measures.

We are engaged in providing insurance brokerage and third party property/casualty claims settlement and administration services to entities in the U.S. and abroad. We believe that one of our major
strengths is our ability to deliver comprehensively structured insurance and risk management services to our clients. Our brokers, agents and administrators act as intermediaries between insurers and our customers and we do not assume net
underwriting risks. We are headquartered in Itasca, Illinois, have operations in 33 other countries and offer client-service capabilities in more than 150 countries globally through a network of correspondent brokers and consultants. In 2016, we
expanded, and expect to continue to expand, our international operations through both acquisitions and organic growth. We generate approximately 69% of our revenues for the combined brokerage and risk management segments domestically, with the
remaining 31% derived internationally, primarily in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the U.K. (based on 2016 revenues). We expect that our international revenue as a percentage of our total revenues in 2017 will be
comparable to 2016. We have three reportable segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate, which contributed approximately 63%, 13% and 24%, respectively, to 2016 revenues. Our major sources of operating revenues are commissions, fees and
supplemental and contingent commissions from brokerage operations and fees from risk management operations. Investment income is generated from invested cash and fiduciary funds, clean energy and other investments, and interest income from premium
financing.

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains certain statements
relating to future results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please see “Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” in Part I of this annual
report, for certain cautionary information regarding forward-looking statements and a list of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements.

Summary of Financial Results – Year Ended December 31,

See the reconciliations of

non-GAAP

measures on pages 27 and 28.



In our corporate segment, net after tax earnings from our clean energy investments was $114.4 million
in 2016. We anticipate our clean energy investments to generate between $117.0 million and $133.0 million in net after tax earnings in 2017. We expect to use these additional earnings to continue our mergers and acquisition strategy in our
core brokerage and risk management operations.

The following provides information that management believes is helpful when comparing
revenues, net earnings, EBITDAC and diluted net earnings per share for 2016 and 2015. In addition, these tables provide reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures for adjusted revenues, adjusted EBITDAC

(non-GAAP

measure) and adjusted diluted net earnings per share. Reconciliations of EBITDAC for the brokerage and risk management segments are provided on pages 35 and 42 of this filing.

*

For 2016, the pretax impact of the brokerage segment adjustments totals $80.5 million, with a corresponding adjustment to the provision for income taxes of
$23.9 million relating to these items. The pretax impact of the risk management segment adjustments totals $2.2 million, with a corresponding adjustment to the provision for income taxes of $0.7 million relating to these items. The
pretax impact of the corporate segment adjustments totals $20.2 million, with a corresponding adjustment to the provision for income taxes of $4.1 million relating to these items. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the pretax
impact of the brokerage segment adjustments totals $155.2 million, with a corresponding adjustment to the provision for income taxes of $51.5 million relating to these items. The pretax impact of the risk management segment adjustments
totals $5.6 million, with a corresponding adjustment to the provision for income taxes of $1.3 million relating to these items. The pretax impact of the corporate segment adjustments totals ($16.2) million, with a corresponding adjustment
to the provision for income taxes of $1.5 million relating to these items.



Reconciliation of

Non-GAAP

Measures -

Pre-tax

Earnings and Diluted Net Earnings per Share

(In millions except share and per share data)

Insurance Market Overview

Fluctuations in premiums charged by property/casualty insurance carriers have a direct and potentially material impact on the insurance brokerage
industry. Commission revenues are generally based on a percentage of the premiums paid by insureds and normally follow premium levels. Insurance premiums are cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market conditions. Various factors,
including competition for market share among insurance carriers, increased underwriting capacity and improved economies of scale following consolidations, can result in flat or reduced property/casualty premium rates (a “soft” market).
A soft market tends to put downward pressure on commission revenues. Various countervailing factors, such as greater than anticipated loss experience and capital shortages, can result in increasing property/casualty premium rates (a
“hard” market). A hard market tends to favorably impact commission revenues. Hard and soft markets may be broad-based or more narrowly focused across individual product lines or geographic areas. As markets harden, certain insureds,
who are the buyers of insurance



(our brokerage clients), have historically resisted paying increased premiums and the higher commissions these premiums generate. Such resistance often causes some buyers to raise their
deductibles and/or reduce the overall amount of insurance coverage they purchase. As the market softens, or costs decrease, these trends have historically reversed. During a hard market, buyers may switch to negotiated fee in lieu of commission
arrangements to compensate us for placing their risks, or may consider the alternative insurance market, which includes self-insurance, captives,

rent-a-captives,

risk
retention groups and capital market solutions to transfer risk. According to industry estimates, these mechanisms now account for 50% of the total U.S. commercial property/casualty market. Our brokerage units are very active in these markets as
well. While increased use by insureds of these alternative markets historically has reduced commission revenue to us, such trends generally have been accompanied by new sales and renewal increases in the areas of risk management, claims management,
captive insurance and self-insurance services and related growth in fee revenue. Inflation tends to increase the levels of insured values and risk exposures, resulting in higher overall premiums and higher commissions. However, the impact of hard
and soft market fluctuations has historically had a greater impact on changes in premium rates, and therefore on our revenues, than inflationary pressures.

The Council of Insurance Agents & Brokers (which we refer to as the CIAB) 2016 quarterly surveys indicated that U.S. commercial property/casualty rates decreased by 3.7%, 3.9%, 3.2% and 3.3% on
average across all lines, for the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2016, respectively. The fourth quarter 2016 CIAB survey indicated that rates declined for the eighth straight quarter. CIAB survey respondents noted that the decrease in
rates during the fourth quarter of 2016 were fairly consistent with the third quarter of 2016, signaling some stability in the market. In 2017, while we see retail property/casualty rates as a headwind, we do see property/casualty exposure growth
offsetting this partially. We also see employment growth and complexity surrounding the Affordable Care Act as tailwinds for our employee benefit units. In addition, our history of strong new business generation, solid retentions and enhanced
value-added services for our carrier partners should all result in further organic growth opportunities around the world. We believe similar conditions exist as we start the January 1, 2017 renewal season. Internationally, we see a similar
market in U.K. retail Canada, Australia and New Zealand, but more softening in London Specialty. Overall, we believe a modestly-down rate environment can be partially mitigated through exposure unit growth in certain lines and by our professionals
demonstrating our expertise and high quality value added capabilities by strengthening our clients’ insurance portfolio in these times. Based on our experience, insurance carriers appear to be making rational pricing decisions. In lines and
accounts where rate increases or decreases are warranted, the underwriters are pricing accordingly. As carriers reach their profitability targets in lines, rates may start to flatten. In summary, in this environment, rates decreased at a moderate
pace, clients can still obtain coverage, businesses continue to stay in standard-line markets and there is adequate capacity in the insurance market. It is not clear whether the rate retraction will continue due to the uncertainty of the current
economic environment. The CIAB represents the leading domestic and international insurance brokers, who write approximately 85% of the commercial property/casualty premiums in the U.S.

Clean energy investments

- In 2009 and 2011, we built a total of 29 commercial clean coal production plants to produce refined coal using

Chem-Mod’s

(see below) proprietary technologies. On September 1, 2013, we purchased a 99% interest in a limited liability company that has ownership interests in four limited liability companies that own five clean coal production plants. On March 1,
2014, we purchased an additional ownership interest in seven of the 2009 Era Plants and five of the 2011 Era Plants from a

co-investor.

For all seven of the 2009 Era Plants, our ownership increased from 49.5%
to 100.0%. For the 2011 Era Plants, our ownership increased from 48.8% to 90.0% for one of the plants, from 49.0% to 100.0% for three of the plants and from 98.0% to 100.0% for one of the plants. We believe these operations produce refined coal that
qualifies for tax credits under IRC Section 45. The law that provides for IRC Section 45 tax credits expires in December 2019 for the fourteen plants we built and placed in service in 2009 (2009 Era Plants) and in December 2021 for the
fifteen plants we built and placed in service in 2011, plus the five plants we purchased interests in that were placed in service in 2011 (2011 Era Plants).

Thirty-one

plants are under long-term production contracts with several utilities. The remaining three plants are in early stages of seeking and negotiating
long-term production contracts.

We also own a 46.5% controlling interest in

Chem-Mod,

which has been
marketing The

Chem-Mod™

Solution proprietary technologies principally to refined fuel plants that sell refined fuel to coal-fired power plants owned by utility companies, including those plants in which
we hold interests. Based on current production estimates provided by licensees,

Chem-Mod

could generate for us approximately $4.0 million to $5.0 million of net

after-tax

earnings per quarter.

Our current estimate of the 2017 annual net after tax earnings that
could be generated from all of our clean energy investments in 2017 is between $117.0 million to $133.0 million.

All estimates set
forth above regarding the future results of our clean energy investments are subject to significant risks, including those set forth in the risk factors regarding our IRC Section 45 investments under Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”



Critical Accounting Policies

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (which we refer to as GAAP), which require management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We believe the following significant accounting policies may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. See Note 1 to our consolidated
financial statements for other significant accounting policies.

Revenue Recognition

- See Revenue Recognition in Note 1 to our
consolidated financial statements. See Note 2 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for information with respect to the potential impacts a new accounting standard relating to revenue recognition could have on our future financial
position and operating results.

Income Taxes

- See Income Taxes in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.

Uncertain tax positions are measured based upon the facts and circumstances that exist at each reporting period and involve significant management
judgment. Subsequent changes in judgment based upon new information may lead to changes in recognition, derecognition and measurement. Adjustments may result, for example, upon resolution of an issue with the taxing authorities, or expiration of a
statute of limitations barring an assessment for an issue. We recognize interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in our provision for income taxes. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for a
discussion regarding the possibility that our gross unrecognized tax benefits balance may change within the next twelve months.

Tax law
requires certain items to be included in our tax returns at different times than such items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the annual tax expense reflected in our consolidated statements of earnings is different than that
reported in the tax returns. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the returns, and some differences are temporary and reverse over time, such as depreciation expense and amortization expense deductible
for income tax purposes. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which a tax payment has been deferred, or expense which
has been deducted in the tax return but has not yet been recognized in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in tax returns in future years for which a benefit has
already been recorded in the financial statements.

We establish or adjust valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when we estimate that
it is more likely than not that future taxable income will be insufficient to fully use a deduction or credit in a specific jurisdiction. In assessing the need for the recognition of a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, we consider whether
it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjust the valuation allowance accordingly. We evaluate all significant available positive and negative evidence as part of our analysis.
Negative evidence includes the existence of losses in recent years. Positive evidence includes the forecast of future taxable income by jurisdiction,

tax-planning

strategies that would result in the
realization of deferred tax assets and the presence of taxable income in prior carryback years. The underlying assumptions we use in forecasting future taxable income require significant judgment and take into account our recent performance. The
ultimate realization of deferred tax assets depends on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which temporary differences are deductible or creditable.

Intangible Assets/Earnout Obligations

- See Intangible Assets in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.

Current accounting guidance related to business combinations requires us to estimate and recognize the fair value of liabilities related to potential earnout obligations as of the acquisition dates for
all of our acquisitions subject to earnout provisions. The maximum potential earnout payables disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements represent the maximum amount of additional consideration that could be paid pursuant to the
terms of the purchase agreement for the applicable acquisition. The amounts recorded as earnout payables, which are primarily based upon the estimated future operating results of the acquired entities over a

two-

to three-year period subsequent to the acquisition date, are measured at fair value as of the acquisition date and are included on that basis in the recorded purchase price consideration. We will record
subsequent changes in these estimated earnout obligations, including the accretion of discount, in our consolidated statement of earnings when incurred.

The fair value of these earnout obligations is based on the present value of the expected future payments to be made to the sellers of the acquired entities in accordance with the provisions outlined in
the respective purchase agreements. In determining fair value, we estimate the acquired entity’s future performance using financial projections that are developed by management for the acquired entity and market participant assumptions that are
derived for revenue growth and/or profitability. We estimate future payments using the earnout formula and performance targets specified in each purchase agreement and these financial projections. We then discount these payments to present value
using a risk-adjusted rate that takes into consideration market-based rates of return that reflect the ability of the acquired entity to achieve the targets. Changes in financial projections, market participant assumptions for revenue growth and/or
profitability, or the risk-adjusted discount rate, would result in a change in the fair value of recorded earnout obligations. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion on our 2016 business combinations.



Business Combinations and Dispositions

See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our 2016 business combinations. We did not have any material dispositions in 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Results of Operations

Information
Regarding

Non-GAAP

Measures and Other

In the discussion and analysis of our results of operations
that follows, in addition to reporting financial results in accordance with GAAP, we provide information regarding EBITDAC, EBITDAC margin, adjusted EBITDAC, adjusted EBITDAC margin, diluted net earnings per share, as adjusted (adjusted EPS) for the
brokerage and risk management segments, adjusted revenues, adjusted compensation and operating expenses, adjusted compensation expense ratio, adjusted operating expense ratio and organic revenue measures for each operating segment. These
measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, the GAAP information provided in this report. We believe that these presentations provide useful information to management, analysts and investors regarding financial and business trends
relating to our results of operations and financial condition. Our industry peers may provide similar supplemental

non-GAAP

information with respect to one or more of these measures, although they may not
use the same or comparable terminology and may not make identical adjustments. The

non-GAAP

information we provide should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the GAAP information
provided. As disclosed in our most recent Proxy Statement, we do not make determinations regarding executive officer incentive compensation on the basis of “adjusted” measures such as those described below in “Adjusted revenues
and expenses” or “Adjusted EBITDAC”. Instead, incentive compensation determinations for executive officers are made on the basis of revenue and EBITAC (defined as earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and change in estimated
earnout payables) for the combined brokerage and risk management segments. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior-year amounts reported in this report in order to conform them to the current year presentation.

Adjusted

Non-GAAP

presentation

- We believe that the adjusted

Non-GAAP

presentation of our 2016, 2015 and 2014 information, presented on the following pages, provides stockholders and other interested persons with useful information regarding certain financial metrics
that may assist such persons in analyzing our operating results as they develop a future earnings outlook for us. The

after-tax

amounts related to the adjustments were computed using the normalized effective
tax rate for each respective period.

•

Adjusted revenues and expenses

- We define these measures as revenues, compensation expense and operating expense, respectively, each adjusted
to exclude the following:

•

Net gains realized from sales of books of business, which are primarily net proceeds received related to sales of books of business and other
divestiture transactions.

•

Acquisition integration costs, which include costs related to certain of our large acquisitions, outside the scope of our usual

tuck-in

strategy, not expected to occur on an ongoing basis in the future once we fully assimilate the applicable acquisition. These costs are typically associated with redundant workforce, extra lease space,
duplicate services and external costs incurred to assimilate the acquisition with our IT related systems.

•

Claim portfolio transfer ramp up fees/costs and client

run-off/bankruptcy

costs.

•

Workforce related charges, which primarily include severance costs related to employee terminations and other costs associated with redundant
workforce.

•

Lease termination related charges, which primarily include costs related to terminations of real estate leases and abandonment of leased space.

•

Acquisition related adjustments, which include change in estimated acquisition earnout payables adjustments, impacts of acquisition valuation

true-ups,

impairment charges and acquisition related compensation charges.

•

The impact of foreign currency translation, as applicable. The amounts excluded with respect to foreign currency translation are calculated by applying
current year foreign exchange rates to the same periods in the prior year.

•

Adjusted ratios

- Adjusted compensation expense ratio and adjusted operating expense ratio, respectively, each divided by adjusted revenues.



Non-GAAP

Earnings Measures

•

EBITDAC

and EBITDAC Margin

- EBITDAC is net earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and the change in
estimated acquisition earnout payables and EBITDAC margin is EBITDAC divided by total revenues. These measures for the brokerage and risk management segments provide a meaningful representation of our operating performance and, for the overall
business, provide a meaningful way to measure its financial performance on an ongoing basis.

•

Adjusted EBITDAC

and Adjusted EBITDAC Margin

- Adjusted EBITDAC is EBITDAC adjusted to exclude gains realized from sales of books of
business, acquisition integration costs, workforce related charges, lease termination related charges, claim portfolio transfer ramp up fees/costs, client

run-off/bankruptcy

costs, acquisition related
adjustments, and the period-over-period impact of foreign currency translation, as applicable and Adjusted EBITDAC margin is Adjusted EBITDAC divided by total adjusted revenues (defined above). These measures for the brokerage and risk management
segments provide a meaningful representation of our operating performance, and are also presented to improve the comparability of our results between periods by eliminating the impact of the items that have a high degree of variability.

•

Adjusted EPS for the Brokerage and Risk Management segments

- We define this measure as net earnings adjusted to exclude the

after-tax

impact of gains realized from sales of books of business, acquisition integration costs, claim portfolio transfer ramp up fees/costs, client

run-off/bankruptcy

costs, workforce related charges, lease termination related charges and acquisition related adjustments, the period-over-period impact of foreign currency translation, as applicable, divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding. This
measure provides a meaningful representation of our operating performance (and as such should not be used as a measure of our liquidity), and is also presented to improve the comparability of our results between periods by eliminating the impact of
the items that have a high degree of variability.

Organic Revenues (a

non-GAAP

Measure)

- For the brokerage segment, organic change in base commission and fee revenues excludes the first twelve months of net commission and fee revenues generated from acquisitions and the net commission and fee revenues related to
operations disposed of in each year presented. These commissions and fees are excluded from organic revenues in order to help interested persons analyze the revenue growth associated with the operations that were a part of our business in
both the current and prior year. In addition, change in base commission and fee revenue organic growth excludes the period-over-period impact of foreign currency translation. For the risk management segment, organic change in fee revenues
excludes the first twelve months of fee revenues generated from acquisitions and the fee revenues related to operations disposed of in each year presented. In addition, change in organic growth excludes the impact of claim portfolio transfer ramp up
fees, client

run-off

bankruptcy costs, and the period-over-period impact of foreign currency translation to improve the comparability of our results between periods by eliminating the impact of the items that
have a high degree of variability or due to the limited-time nature of these revenue sources.

These revenue items are excluded from organic
revenues in order to determine a comparable, but

non-GAAP,

measurement of revenue growth that is associated with the revenue sources that are expected to continue in 2017 and beyond. We have historically
viewed organic revenue growth as an important indicator when assessing and evaluating the performance of our brokerage and risk management segments. We also believe that using this

non-GAAP

measure allows
readers of our financial statements to measure, analyze and compare the growth from our brokerage and risk management segments in a meaningful and consistent manner.

Reconciliation of

Non-GAAP

Information Presented to GAAP Measures

- This report includes tabular reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures for
adjusted revenues, adjusted compensation expense and adjusted operating expense, EBITDAC, EBITDAC margin, adjusted EBITDAC, adjusted EBITDAC margin, diluted net earnings per share (as adjusted) and organic revenue measures.



Brokerage Segment

The brokerage segment accounted for 63% of our revenue in 2016. Our brokerage segment is primarily comprised of retail and wholesale brokerage operations. Our retail brokerage operations negotiate and
place property/casualty, employer-provided health and welfare insurance and retirement solutions, principally for middle-market commercial, industrial, public entity, religious and

not-for-profit

entities. Many of our retail brokerage customers choose to place their insurance with insurance underwriters, while others choose to use alternative
vehicles such as self-insurance pools, risk retention groups or captive insurance companies. Our wholesale brokerage operations assist our brokers and other unaffiliated brokers and agents in the placement of specialized, unique and

hard-to-place

insurance programs.

Our primary sources of
compensation for our retail brokerage services are commissions paid by insurance companies, which are usually based upon a percentage of the premium paid by insureds, and brokerage and advisory fees paid directly by our clients. For wholesale
brokerage services, we generally receive a share of the commission paid to the retail broker from the insurer. Commission rates are dependent on a number of factors, including the type of insurance, the particular insurance company underwriting the
policy and whether we act as a retail or wholesale broker. Advisory fees are dependent on the extent and value of services we provide. In addition, under certain circumstances, both retail brokerage and wholesale brokerage services receive
supplemental and contingent commissions. A supplemental commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier that is above the base commission paid, is determined by the insurance carrier and is established annually in advance of the contractual
period based on historical performance criteria. A contingent commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier based on the overall profit and/or volume of the business placed with that insurance carrier during a particular calendar year and
is determined after the contractual period.

Litigation and Regulatory Matters

- A portion of our brokerage business includes the
development and management of “micro-captives,” through operations we acquired in 2010 in our acquisition of the assets of Tribeca Strategic Advisors (Tribeca). A “captive” is an insurance company that insures the risks of its
owner, affiliates or a group of companies. Micro-captives are captive insurance companies that are subject to taxation only on net investment income under IRC Section 831(b). Our micro-captive advisory services are under investigation by the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Additionally, the IRS has initiated audits for the 2012 tax year of over 100 of the micro-captive insurance companies organized and/or managed by us. Among other matters, the IRS is investigating whether we have been
acting as a tax shelter promoter in connection with these operations. While the IRS has not made specific allegations relating to our operations or the

pre-acquisition

activities of Tribeca, if the IRS were to
successfully assert that the micro-captives organized and/or managed by us do not meet the requirements of IRC Section 831(b), we could be subject to monetary claims by the IRS and/or our micro-captive clients, and our future earnings from our
micro-captive operations could be materially adversely affected, any of which event could negatively impact the overall captive business and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We may also experience lost
earnings due to the negative effect of an extended IRS investigation on our clients’ and potential clients’ businesses. Annual renewals for micro-captive clients generally occur during the fourth quarter. Therefore, any negative impact
from this investigation would likely have a disproportionate impact on fourth-quarter results. In 2016, 2015 and 2014, our micro-captive operations contributed less than $3.5 million of net earnings and less than $5.0 million of EBITDAC to
our consolidated results in any one year. Due to the fact that the IRS has not made any allegation against us or completed all of its audits of our clients, we are not able to reasonably estimate the amount of any potential loss in connection with
this investigation.



Financial information relating to our brokerage segment results for 2016, 2015 and, 2014 (in millions,
except per share, percentages and workforce data):

*

Prior to September 1, 2016, most of our India-based workforce was provided by a third party on a cost-pass-through basis. During 2016, we consummated a
transaction whereby we now directly employ those associates thereby adding approximately 2,700 employees to our global workforce counts, of which approximately 2,200 employees were included in the 2016 number above. We revised the workforce number
as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 to conform to the current period presentation.



The following provides information that management believes is helpful when comparing EBITDAC and adjusted
EBITDAC for 2016, 2015 and 2014 (in millions):

Acquisition integration costs include costs related to our July 2, 2014 acquisition of Noraxis Capital Corporation
(which we refer to as Noraxis), our June 16, 2014 acquisition of Crombie/OAMPS (which we refer to as Crombie/OAMPS), our April 1, 2014 acquisition of Oval Group of Companies (which we refer to as Oval), our November 14, 2013
acquisition of Giles Group of Companies (which we refer to as Giles) and our August 1, 2015 acquisition of William Gallagher Associates Insurance Brokers (which we refer to WGA) that are not expected to occur on an ongoing basis in the future
once we fully assimilate these acquisitions. These costs relate to

on-boarding

of employees, communication system conversion costs, related performance compensation, redundant workforce, extra lease space,
duplicate services and external costs incurred to assimilate the acquired businesses with our IT related systems. The WGA integration costs in 2016 totaled $5.0 million and were primarily related to retention and incentive compensation. The
Noraxis integration costs in 2016 totaled $1.9 million and were primarily related to the consolidation of offices, technology costs and incentive compensation. The Crombie/OAMPS integration costs in 2016 totaled $3.2 million, and were
primarily related to technology costs and incentive compensation. The Giles and Oval integration costs in 2016 totaled $35.6 million and were primarily related to the consolidation of offices in the U.K., technology costs, branding and
incentive compensation. The Noraxis integration costs in 2015 totaled $7.4 million and were primarily related to the consolidation of offices, technology costs and incentive compensation. The Crombie/OAMPS integration costs in 2015 totaled
$23.4 million, and were primarily related to technology costs and incentive compensation. The Giles and Oval integration costs in 2015 totaled $69.0 million and were primarily related to the consolidation of offices in the U.K., technology
costs, branding and incentive compensation. Integration costs related to these acquisitions for the full year in 2017 are estimated to be less than a third of what they were in 2016.

Commissions and fees

- The aggregate increase in commissions and fees for 2016 was principally due to revenues associated with acquisitions that were made during 2016 ($173.2 million).
Commissions and fees in 2016 included new business production of $359.7 million, which was offset by lost business and renewal rate decreases of $362.6 million. The aggregate increase in commissions and fees for 2015 was principally due to
revenues associated with acquisitions that were made during 2015 ($390.6 million). Commissions and fees in 2015 included new business production of $345.2 million, which was offset by lost business and renewal rate decreases of
$287.3 million. Commission revenues increased 4% and fee revenues increased 10% in 2016 compared to 2015, respectively. Commission revenues increased 12% and fee revenues increased 22% in 2015 compared to 2014, respectively. The organic change
in base commission and fee revenues was 3% in 2016, 3% in 2015 and 4% in 2014.



Items excluded from organic revenue computations yet impacting revenue comparisons for 2016, 2015 and 2014
include the following (in millions):



Acquisition Activity




Number of acquisitions closed *




Estimated annualized revenues acquired (in millions)

$

137.9

$

223.2

$

761.2

*

For 2016 we issued 1,998,000 shares in connection with

tax-free

exchange acquisitions and repurchased 2,265,000 shares to fully
offset the impact of the issued shares.

Through January 26, 2017, we closed an additional 5 acquisitions
with estimated annualized revenues of approximately $32.2 million. No shares were issued related to these acquisitions.

Supplemental
and contingent commissions -

Reported supplemental and contingent commission revenues recognized in 2016, 2015 and 2014 by quarter are as follows (in millions):



Investment income

and gains realized on books of business sales

- This primarily represents interest income
earned on cash, cash equivalents and restricted funds, interest income from premium financing and

one-time

gains related to sales of books of business, which were $6.6 million, $6.7 million and
$7.3 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Investment income in 2016 decreased compared to 2015 primarily due to decreases in interest income from our premium financing business and in interest income earned on client held funds, both
of which were related to a decline in interest rates in Australia and New Zealand. Investment income in 2015 increased compared to 2014 primarily due to the interest income from premium financing generated by our Australia and New Zealand operations
which were acquired on June 16, 2014.

Compensation expense

- The following provides

non-GAAP

information that management believes is helpful when comparing 2016 and 2015 compensation expense and 2015 and 2014 compensation expense (in millions):

The increase in compensation expense in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to an increase in the average number of
employees, salary increases,

one-time

compensation payments and increases in incentive compensation linked to our overall operating results ($81.1 million in the aggregate), increases in employee benefits
expense ($15.7 million), stock compensation expense ($4.7 million), deferred compensation ($3.5 million) and temporary staffing ($0.5 million), offset by decreases in severance related costs ($2.5 million) and earnout
related compensation expense ($0.9 million). The increase in employee headcount in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily relates to the addition of employees associated with the acquisitions that we completed in 2016 and new production hires.

The increase in compensation expense in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to an increase in the average number of employees, salary
increases,

one-time

compensation payments and increases in incentive compensation linked to our overall operating results ($195.6 million in the aggregate), increases in employee benefits expense
($27.2 million), severance related costs ($12.8 million), stock compensation expense ($4.4 million), and temporary staffing ($0.6 million), offset by a decrease in deferred compensation ($4.0 million). The increase in
employee headcount in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily relates to the addition of employees associated with the acquisitions that we completed in 2015 and new production hires.



Operating expense

- The following provides

non-GAAP

information that management believes is helpful when comparing 2016 and 2015 operating expense and 2015 and 2014 operating expense (in millions):

The decrease in operating expense in 2016 compared to 2015 was due primarily to favorable foreign currency translation
($3.2 million), decreases in business insurance ($15.3 million), technology expenses ($11.4 million), professional and banking fees ($5.6 million), licenses and fees ($3.7 million), other expense ($3.4 million), bad
debt expense ($2.4 million), employee expense ($1.0 million), premium financing interest expense ($0.7 million), real estate expenses ($0.3 million), slightly offset by increases in meeting and client entertainment expenses
($4.2 million), outside consulting fees ($2.9 million), office supplies ($1.3 million) and lease termination charges ($0.2 million). Also contributing to the increase in operating expense in 2016 were increased expenses
associated with the acquisitions completed in 2016.

The increase in operating expense in 2015 compared to 2014 was due primarily to
increases in technology expenses ($30.5 million), outside consulting fees ($16.3 million), business insurance ($12.9 million), real estate expenses ($11.4 million), meeting and client entertainment expenses ($10.0 million),
professional and banking fees ($7.7 million), bad debt expense ($6.4 million), licenses and fees ($4.8 million), employee expense ($2.4 million), lease termination charges ($2.4 million), other expense ($2.3 million),
outside services expense ($0.6 million), premium financing interest expense ($0.4 million), interest expense ($0.1 million) and unfavorable foreign currency translation ($1.3 million), slightly offset by a decrease in office
supplies ($1.4 million). Also contributing to the increase in operating expense in 2015 were increased expenses associated with the acquisitions completed in 2015.

Depreciation

- The increases in depreciation expense in 2016 compared to 2015 and in 2015 compared to 2014 were due primarily to the purchases of furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements
related to office expansions and moves, and expenditures related to upgrading computer systems. Also contributing to the increases in depreciation expense in 2016, 2015 and 2014 were the depreciation expenses associated with acquisitions completed
during these years.

Amortization

- The increases in amortization in 2016 compared to 2015 and in 2015 compared to 2014 were due
primarily to amortization expense of intangible assets associated with acquisitions completed during these years. Expiration lists,

non-compete

agreements and trade names are amortized using the straight-line
method over their estimated useful lives (three to fifteen years for expiration lists, three to five years for

non-compete

agreements and five to ten years for trade names). Based on the
results of impairment reviews in 2016, 2015 and 2014, we wrote off $1.8 million, $11.5 million and $1.8 million of amortizable intangible assets related to the brokerage segment acquisitions.

Change in estimated acquisition earnout payables

- The change in the expense from the change in estimated acquisition earnout payables in 2016
compared to 2015 and 2015 compared to 2014 was due primarily to adjustments made to the estimated fair value of earnout obligations related to revised projections of future performance. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recognized $16.9 million,
$16.2 million and $14.5 million, respectively, of expense related to the accretion of the discount recorded for earnout obligations in connection with our 2016, 2015 and 2014 acquisitions. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recognized
$15.2 million, $24.9 million and $3.1 million of expense, respectively, related to net adjustments in the estimated fair market values of earnout obligations in connection with revised projections of future performance for 101, 103
and 67 acquisitions, respectively.



The amounts initially recorded as earnout payables for our 2012 to 2016 acquisitions were measured at fair
value as of the acquisition date and are primarily based upon the estimated future operating results of the acquired entities over a

two-

to

three-year

period subsequent
to the acquisition date. The fair value of these earnout obligations is based on the present value of the expected future payments to be made to the sellers of the acquired entities in accordance with the provisions outlined in the respective
purchase agreements. In determining fair value, we estimate the acquired entity’s future performance using financial projections developed by management for the acquired entity and market participant assumptions that were derived for revenue
growth and/or profitability. We estimate future earnout payments using the earnout formula and performance targets specified in each purchase agreement and these financial projections. Subsequent changes in the underlying financial projections or
assumptions will cause the estimated earnout obligations to change and such adjustments are recorded in our consolidated statement of earnings when incurred. Increases in the earnout payable obligations will result in the recognition of expense and
decreases in the earnout payable obligations will result in the recognition of income.

Provision for income taxes

- We allocate the
provision for income taxes to the brokerage segment using local statutory rates. The brokerage segment’s effective tax rate in 2016, 2015 and 2014 was 35.2% (35.4% on a controlling basis), 35.1% and 36.4%, respectively. We anticipate reporting
an effective tax rate on adjusted results of approximately 34.0% to 36.0% in our brokerage segment for the foreseeable future. In third quarter 2016, new tax legislation was enacted in the U.K., which will decrease the U.K. corporation tax rate from
the current 18% to 17% effective April 1, 2020. Accordingly, we adjusted our deferred tax asset and liability balances in 2016 to reflect these rate changes, which decreased the provision for income taxes in the brokerage segment by
$1.5 million, or $0.01 per share. In fourth quarter 2015, new tax legislation was enacted in the U.K., which will decrease the U.K. corporation tax rate from the current 20% to 19% effective April 1, 2017 and from 19% to 18% effective
April 1, 2020. Accordingly, we adjusted our deferred tax asset and liability balances in 2015 to reflect these rate changes, which decreased the provision for income taxes in the brokerage segment by $4.2 million, or $0.02 per share.

Net earnings (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests

- The amounts reported in this line for 2016, 2015 and 2014 include

non-controlling

interest earnings of $3.6 million, $1.7 million and $0.9 million, respectively, primarily related to our investment in Capsicum Reinsurance Brokers LLP (which we refer to as Capsicum).
We are partners in this venture with Grahame Chilton, the CEO of our International Brokerage Division. We are the controlling partner, participating in 33% of Capsicum’s net operating results and Mr. Chilton owns approximately 50% of
Capsicum.



Risk Management Segment

The risk management segment accounted for 13% of our revenue in 2016. The risk management segment provides contract claim settlement and administration services for enterprises that choose to self-insure
some or all of their property/casualty coverages and for insurance companies that choose to outsource some or all of their property/casualty claims departments. In addition, this segment generates revenues from integrated disability management
programs, information services, risk control consulting (loss control) services and appraisal services, either individually or in combination with arising claims. Revenues for risk management services are substantially in the form of fees that are
generally negotiated in advance on a

per-claim

or

per-service

basis, depending upon the type and estimated volume of the services to be performed.

Financial information relating to our risk management segment results for 2016, 2015 and 2014 (in millions, except per share, percentages and
workforce data):

*

Prior to September 1, 2016, most of our India-based workforce was provided by a third party on a cost-pass-through basis. During 2016, we consummated a
transaction whereby we now directly employ those associates thereby adding approximately 2,700 employees to our global workforce counts, of which approximately 300 employees were included in the 2016 number above. We revised the workforce number as
of December 31, 2015 and 2014 to conform to the current period presentation.



On November 18, 2014, we announced that a contract for the administration of workers’ compensation
claims with the New South Wales Workers Compensation Scheme in Australia would be moved to

run-off

status on December 31, 2014. Our net earnings from this contract were approximately $3.5 million in
2014. We took a $12.9 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2014 primarily relating to a

non-cash

impairment of capitalized software and personnel costs dedicated to servicing the New South Wales

run-off

contract, and in 2015 during we broke even on this contract in the

run-off

period.

The following provides

non-GAAP

information that management believes is helpful when comparing 2016 and 2015 EBITDAC and adjusted EBITAC and 2015 and 2014 EBITDAC
and adjusted EBITDAC (in millions):

Fees -

The decrease in fees for 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to lost business of $68.2 million,
which was offset by new business and the impact of increased claim counts (total of $58.8 million), in 2016. The increase in fees for 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to new business and the impact of increased claim counts (total of
$75.3 million), which were partially offset by lost business of $30.1 million in 2015. Organic change in fee revenues was 1% in 2016, 11% in 2015 and 10% in 2014.

Items excluded from organic fee computations yet impacting revenue comparisons in 2016, 2015 and 2014 include the following (in millions):



Investment income -

Investment income primarily represents interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents.
Investment income in 2016 increased compared to 2015 primarily due to higher levels of invested assets in 2016. Investment income in 2015 decreased compared to 2014 primarily due to lower levels of invested assets in 2015.

Compensation expense

-

The following provides

non-GAAP

information that management believes is
helpful when comparing 2016 and 2015 compensation expense and 2015 and 2014 compensation expense (in millions):

The decrease in compensation expense in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation
($2.6 million) and decreases in salaries ($0.4 million in the aggregate), temporary-staffing expense ($2.2 million) and severance related costs ($0.3 million), offset by increased headcount, increases in employee benefits
($1.6 million), stock compensation expense ($0.9 million) and deferred compensation ($0.3 million).

The increase in
compensation expense in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to increased headcount and increases in salaries ($27.9 million in the aggregate), employee benefits ($1.8 million), severance related costs ($1.4 million), offset by
favorable foreign currency translation ($12.6 million), decreases in claim portfolio transfer ramp up costs ($3.6 million), temporary-staffing expense ($1.3 million) and deferred compensation ($0.6 million).



Operating expense -

The following provides

non-GAAP

information that management believes is helpful when comparing 2016 and 2015 operating expense and 2015 and 2014 operating expense (in millions):

The decrease in operating expense in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to decreases in business insurance
($5.7 million), other expense ($2.7 million), real estate expenses ($2.3 million), bad debt expense ($1.8 million), licenses and fees ($1.4 million), meeting and client entertainment expense ($0.9 million), employee
expense ($0.9 million), technology expenses ($0.4 million), office supplies ($0.4 million), lease termination related charges ($0.4 million), offset by increases in professional and banking fees ($4.4 million), outside
consulting fees ($2.8 million) and outside services ($0.3 million).

The increase in operating expense in 2015 compared to 2014 was
primarily due to increases in professional and banking fees ($6.3 million), outside consulting fees ($5.2 million), technology expenses ($4.3 million), business insurance ($2.5 million), licenses and fees ($1.1 million),
meeting and client entertainment expense ($0.7 million), bad debt expense ($0.5 million), lease termination related charges ($0.5 million) and outside services ($0.4 million), offset by decreases in other expense
($10.6 million), claim portfolio transfer ramp up costs ($2.8 million), office supplies ($2.0 million), real estate expenses ($1.1 million) and employee expense ($0.3 million).

Depreciation -

Depreciation expense increased in 2016 compared to 2015 and 2015 compared to 2014, which reflects the impact of purchases of
furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements related to office expansions and moves and expenditures related to upgrading computer systems.

Amortization -

Amortization expense decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 and 2015 compared to 2014. Historically, the risk management segment has
made few acquisitions. We made no material acquisitions in this segment in 2016, 2015 or 2014. No indicators of impairment were noted in 2016, 2015 or 2014.

Change in estimated acquisition earnout payables

- The increase in income from the change in estimated acquisition earnout payables in 2016 compared to 2015 and the decrease in income from the
change in estimated acquisition earnout payable 2015 compared to 2014 was due primarily to adjustments made in 2015 to the estimated fair value of an earnout obligation related to a revised projections of future performance for two acquisitions.
During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recognized zero, $0.5 million and $0.1 million, respectively, of income related to net adjustments in the estimated fair value of earnout obligations related to revised projections of future performance for
two acquisitions.

Provision for income taxes -

We allocate the provision for income taxes to the risk management segment using local
statutory rates. The risk management segment’s effective tax rate in 2016, 2015 and 2014 was 38.2%, 38.0% and 37.5%, respectively. We anticipate reporting an effective tax rate on adjusted results of approximately 36.0% to 38.0% in our risk
management segment for the foreseeable future.



Corporate Segment

The corporate segment reports the financial information related to our clean energy and other investments, our debt, and certain corporate and acquisition-related activities. See Note 13 to our
consolidated financial statements for a summary of our investments at December 31, 2016 and 2015 and a detailed discussion of the nature of these investments. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our
debt at December 31, 2016 and 2015.

Financial information relating to our corporate segment results for 2016, 2015 and 2014
(in millions, except per share and percentages):

Revenues -

Revenues in the corporate segment consist of the following:

•

Revenues from consolidated clean coal production plants represents revenues from the consolidated IRC Section 45 facilities that we operate and
control under lease arrangements, and the investments in which we have a majority ownership position and maintain control over the operations of the related plants, including those that are currently not operating. When we relinquish control in
connection with the sale of majority ownership interests in our investments, we deconsolidate these operations.

The increases in 2016 and 2015 are due to increased production of clean coal.



•

Royalty income from clean coal licenses represents revenues related to

Chem-Mod

LLC. We held a 46.5%
controlling interest in

Chem-Mod.

As

Chem-Mod’s

manager, we are required to consolidate its operations.

The decrease in royalty income in 2016 compared to 2015 was due to reductions in production of refined coal by

Chem-Mod’s

licenses. The increase in royalty income in 2015 compared to 2014 was due to increased production of refined coal by

Chem-Mod’s

licensees.

Expenses related to royalty income of

Chem-Mod

were $2.4 million, $3.0 million and
$3.1 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These expenses are included in the operating expenses discussed below.

•

Loss from unconsolidated clean coal production plants represents our equity portion of the pretax operating results from the unconsolidated clean coal
production plants. The production of refined coal generates pretax operating losses.

The losses in 2016,
2015 and 2014 were low because the vast majority of our operations are now consolidated.

•

Other net revenues include the following: In 2016, we recorded $0.8 million of rental income related to our new headquarters facility. We also
recognized $0.8 million of equity basis accounting losses related to our legacy investments. In addition, we recognized a $1.3 million impairment loss related to clean coal production plants including engineering costs of $0.7 million
incurred for two locations that will not be used.

In 2015, we settled litigation against certain former U.K.
executives and their advisors for a pretax $31.0 million gain ($22.3 million net of costs and taxes). Incremental expenses that arose in connection with this matter will result in

after-tax

charges
of approximately $4.5 million per quarter through June 30, 2017, which will also be presented as an adjustment to the corporate segment. Also in 2015 we recognized $0.7 million of equity basis accounting losses related to our legacy
investments and $0.2 million of rental income related to our new headquarters facility.

In 2014, other net revenues
primarily included a pretax gains of $25.6 million, related to the 2014 acquisition of an additional ownership interest in seven 2009 Era Plants and five 2011 Era Plants from a

co-investor.

We have
consolidated the operations of the limited liability companies that own these plants effective as of the acquisition dates. In addition, in 2014 we also recognized a $1.8 million gain adjustment related to the 2013 acquisition of additional
ownership interests in twelve 2009 Era Plants, a $2.0 million impairment loss, under equity method accounting, of an additional 4% investment in the global operations of

C-Quest

Technologies LLC and

C-Quest

Technologies International LLC, a $0.5 million loss related to two legacy investments and a $10.9 million impairment loss related to two of our clean coal production plants which permanently
stopped operations. We also realized a $1.9 million hedge gain related to the funding of the Crombie/OAMPS acquisition and earned $2.5 million of interest on cash deposited in Australia to fund the Crombie/OAMPS
acquisition.

Cost of revenues -

Cost of revenues from consolidated clean coal production plants in 2016, 2015
and 2014 consists of the cost of coal, labor, equipment maintenance, chemicals, supplies, management fees and depreciation incurred by the clean coal production plants to generate the consolidated revenues discussed above, including the costs to run
the leased facilities.

Compensation expense -

Compensation expense for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, was $72.6 million,
$62.0 million and $50.3 million.

The $10.6 million increase in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to an increase in
retention agreement compensation related to the litigation settlement, an increase in incentive compensation due to clean energy performance and an increase in benefits expense.

The $11.7 million increase in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to retention agreement compensation related to the litigation settlement, compensation for corporate staff working outside the
U.S., an increase in incentive compensation due to clean energy performance, offset by the reduction in expense related to the 2014

de-risking

strategy of our U.S. defined pension plan.

Operating expense

- Operating expense for 2016 includes banking and related fees of $3.2 million, external professional fees and other due
diligence costs related to 2016 acquisitions of $3.9 million, other corporate and clean energy related expenses of $5.7 million, $4.8 million for a biennial corporate-wide meeting, corporate related marketing costs of
$7.0 million and $0.8 million related to the litigation settlement.

Operating expense for 2015 includes banking and related fees of
$2.7 million, external professional fees and other due diligence costs related to 2015 acquisitions of $3.7 million, other corporate and clean energy related expenses of $9.9 million, $3.8 million for a biennial corporate-wide
meeting and $1.7 million related to the litigation settlement.

Operating expense for 2014 includes banking and related fees of
$2.7 million, external professional fees and other due diligence costs related to 2014 acquisitions of $18.9 million, other corporate and clean energy related expenses of $12.8 million and $2.2 million for a biennial
corporate-wide meeting.



Interest expense -

The increase in interest expense in 2016 compared to 2015 and 2015 compared to
2014 was due to the following:

The capitalization of interest costs related to the purchase and development of our new corporate headquarters building
will occur until the development of it is completed in early 2017.

Depreciation -

The increase in depreciation expense in 2016
compared to 2015 primarily relates to clean coal plants

re-deployed

in 2016 and 2015. The increase in depreciation expense in 2015 compared to 2014, primarily relates to the assets of the additional ownership
interests in the clean coal plants that we acquired from

co-investors

in 2014 and clean coal plants

re-deployed

in 2015.

Benefit for income taxes -

We allocate the provision for income taxes to the brokerage and risk management segments using local statutory rates.
As a result, the provision for income taxes for the corporate segment reflects the entire benefit to us of the IRC Section 45 credits generated, because that is the segment which produced the credits. The law that provides for IRC
Section 45 tax credits substantially expires in December 2019 for our fourteen 2009 Era Plants and in December 2021 for our twenty 2011 Era Plants. Our consolidated effective tax rate was (24.7)%, (32.6)% and (12.3)% for 2016, 2015 and 2014,
respectively. The tax rates for 2016, 2015 and 2014 were lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the amount of IRC Section 45 tax credits recognized during the year. There were $194.4 million, $181.3 million and
$145.5 million of tax credits produced and recognized in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Potential U.S. Federal income tax law
changes

- The value of our tax credits could be impacted by changes in the tax code as a result of the recent presidential and congressional elections in the U.S. Congress could modify or repeal IRC Section 45 and remove the tax credits
(either prospectively or through the elimination of the carryover of the credits), which would adversely affect the value of our investment. Also, if Congress reduces tax rates, although we might pay less in taxes overall, it would reduce the tax
benefit of operating costs associated with the production of refined coal. Although we are unable to predict how a reduction in tax rates during 2017 would affect our cash taxes paid in 2017, we estimate that if the U.S. Federal corporate income tax
rate had been reduced from 35% to 20% and if the Alternative Minimum Tax had been eliminated as of January 1, 2016, our cash taxes paid for fiscal 2016 would have been $39.1 million rather than $66.1 million.

Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests

- The amounts reported in this line for 2016, 2015 and 2014 primarily include noncontrolling
interest earnings of $32.7 million, $36.9 million and $35.3 million, respectively, related to the

non-Gallagher

owned interest in

Chem-Mod.

As of
December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we held a 46.5% controlling interest in

Chem-Mod.

Also, included in net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are offsetting amounts related to

non-Gallagher

owned interests in several clean energy investments.



The following provides

non-GAAP

information that we believe is
helpful when comparing 2016, 2015 and 2014 operating results for the corporate segment (in millions):

(1)

Pretax earnings are presented net of amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests of $27.0 million in 2016, $30.6 million in 2015 and $23.2 million
in 2014.

(2)

Non-cash

gain from

re-consolidation

accounting gains related to clean-energy investments
recorded in the first quarter of 2014 and related tax credit recognition.

(3)

During the third quarter of 2015, we settled litigation against certain former U.K. executives and their advisors for a pretax gain of $31.0 million
($22.3 million net of costs and taxes in third quarter). Incremental expenses that arose in connection with this matter will result in

after-tax

charges of up to $4.5 million per quarter through
June 30, 2017.

(4)

In fourth quarter 2014, we recognized a

non-cash

after-tax

settlement charge of
$12.5 million related to retirement plan

de-risking

strategies.

During 2017 we
will be relocating our corporate office headquarters to a nearby suburb of Chicago.

One-time

move and

after-tax

lease abandonment charges are expected to total
approximately $2.5 million, $4.0 million and $1.5 million in first, second and third quarters of 2017. These charges will be presented in the corporate segment.

Interest and banking costs includes expenses related to our debt. Clean energy related includes the operating results related to our investments in clean coal production plants and

Chem-Mod.

Acquisition costs include professional fees, due diligence and other costs incurred related to our acquisitions. Corporate consists of overhead allocations mostly related to corporate staff compensation,
costs related to biennial company-wide award, cross-selling and motivational meetings for our production staff and field management, expenses related to our new corporate headquarters, corporate related marketing costs, and in 2016 and 2015,
retention agreement compensation related to the litigation settlement.

Clean energy investments

- We have investments in limited
liability companies that own 29 clean coal production plants developed by us and five clean coal production plants we purchased from a third party on September 1, 2013. All 34 plants produce refined coal using propriety technologies owned by

Chem-Mod.

We believe that the production and sale of refined coal at these plants are qualified to receive refined coal tax credits under IRC Section 45. The fourteen plants which were placed in service prior
to December 31, 2009 (which we refer to as the 2009 Era Plants) can receive tax credits through 2019 and the twenty plants which were placed in service prior to December 31, 2011 (which we refer to as the 2011 Era Plants) can receive tax
credits through 2021.



The following table provides a summary of our clean coal plant investments as of December 31, 2016
(in millions):

The estimated earnings information in the table reflects management’s current best estimate of the 2017 low and high
ranges of

after-tax

earnings based on early production estimates from the host utilities, other operating assumptions, and U.S. Federal income tax laws in place at December 31, 2016. However, coal-fired
power plants may not ultimately produce refined fuel at estimated levels due to seasonal electricity demand, production costs, natural gas prices, weather conditions, as well as many other operational, regulatory and environmental compliance
reasons. Future changes in EPA regulations or U.S. Federal income tax laws might materially impact these estimates.

Our investment in

Chem-Mod

generates royalty income from refined coal production plants owned by those limited liability companies in which we invest as well as refined coal production plants owned by other unrelated parties. Future
changes in EPA regulations or U.S. Federal income tax laws might materially impact these estimates.

We may sell ownership interests in some
or all of the plants to

co-investors

and relinquish control of the plants, thereby becoming a

non-controlling,

minority investor. In any limited liability company where
we are a

non-controlling,

minority investor, the membership agreement for the operations contains provisions that preclude an individual member from being able to make major decisions that would denote
control. As of any future date we become a

non-controlling,

minority investor, we would deconsolidate the entity and subsequently account for the investment using equity method accounting.

We currently have $2.7 million of construction commitments related to our refined coal plants.

We are aware that some of the coal-fired power plants that purchase the refined coal are considering changing to burning natural gas rather than coal, or
shutting down completely for economic reasons. The entities that own such plants are prepared to move the refined coal plants to another coal-fired power plant, if necessary. If these potential developments were to occur, we estimate those refined
coal plants will not operate for 12 to 18 months during their movement and redeployment, and the new coal-fired power plant may be a higher or lower volume plant, all of which could have a material impact on the amount of tax credits that are
generated by these plants.



There is a provision in IRC Section 45 that phases out the tax credits if the coal reference price per
ton, based on market prices, reaches certain levels as follows:

(1)

The IRS will not release the factors for 2017 until April or May 2017. Based on our analysis of the factors used in the IRS’ phase out calculations, it is our
belief that there will be no phase out in 2017.

See the risk factors regarding our IRC Section 45 investments under Item
1A, “Risk Factors.” for a more detailed discussion of these and other factors could impact the information above. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding risks and uncertainties related to
these investments.

Financial Condition and Liquidity

Liquidity describes the ability of a company to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the cash requirements of its business operations. The insurance brokerage industry is not capital intensive.
Historically, our capital requirements have primarily included dividend payments on our common stock, repurchases of our common stock, funding of our investments, acquisitions of brokerage and risk management operations and capital expenditures.

Cash Flows From Operating Activities

Historically, we have depended on our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations to meet a substantial portion of our cash requirements. We believe that our cash flows from operations and
borrowings under our Credit Agreement will provide us with adequate resources to meet our liquidity needs in the foreseeable future. To fund acquisitions made during 2016, 2015 and 2014, we relied on a combination of net cash flows from operations,
proceeds from borrowings under our Credit Agreement, proceeds from issuances of senior unsecured notes, issuances of our common stock, and a secondary public offering of our common stock in April 2014, in which 21.85 million shares of our
stock were issued for net proceeds, after underwriting discounts and other expenses related to this offering, of $911.4 million.

Cash
provided by operating activities was $622.1 million, $652.6 million and $436.6 million for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to timing
differences in the receipts and disbursements of client fiduciary related balances in 2016 compared to 2015. The following table summarizes three lines from our consolidated statement of cash flows and provides information that management believes
is helpful when comparing changes in client fiduciary related balances for 2016, 2015 and 2014 (in millions):

In addition, cash provided by operating activities for 2016 was impacted by an unrealized foreign currency measurement
loss of $112.7 million compared to an unrealized foreign currency measurement loss of $154.4 million in 2015 and by acquisition related integration costs in 2016 and 2015. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2015
compared to 2014 was primarily due to favorable timing differences in the payment of accrued liabilities and an increased amount of

non-cash

charges in 2015 compared to 2014, partially offset by cash used in
2015 in the production and sale of refined coal at the plants qualified to receive refined



coal tax credits under IRC Section 45. In addition, cash provided by operating activities for 2015 was adversely impacted by an unrealized foreign currency measurement loss of
$154.4 million compared to an unrealized foreign currency measurement loss of $141.5 million in 2014 and an increase in acquisition related integration costs in 2015. Also negatively impacting cash provided by operating activities between
2015 and 2014 was cash payments related to compensation-based retention agreements. During second quarter 2015, we entered into compensation-based retention agreements with certain key employees of our international brokerage operations. We estimate
that these retention agreements will add

after-tax

charges of approximately $4.5 million per quarter through June 30, 2017 to our compensation expense. Our cash flows from operating activities are
primarily derived from our earnings from operations, as adjusted for realized gains and losses, and our

non-cash

expenses, which include depreciation, amortization, change in estimated acquisition earnout
payables, deferred compensation, restricted stock, and stock-based and other

non-cash

compensation expenses. Cash provided by operating activities can be unfavorably impacted by the amount of IRC
Section 45 tax credits recognized compared to the amount of tax credits actually used during the respective periods. Excess tax credits produced during the period result in an increase to our deferred tax assets, which is a net use of cash
related to operating activities.

When assessing our overall liquidity, we believe that the focus should be on net earnings as reported in our
consolidated statement of earnings, adjusted for

non-cash

items (i.e., EBITDAC), and cash provided by operating activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. Net earnings attributable to controlling
interests were $414.4 million and $356.8 million. Consolidated EBITDAC was $849.6 million and $771.3 million for 2016 and 2015, respectively. We believe that EBITDAC items are indicators of trends in liquidity. From a balance
sheet perspective, we believe the focus should not be on premium and fees receivable, premiums payable or restricted cash for trends in liquidity. Net cash flows provided by operations will vary substantially from quarter to quarter and year to year
because of the variability in the timing of premiums and fees receivable and premiums payable. We believe that in order to consider these items in assessing our trends in liquidity, they should be looked at in a combined manner, because changes in
these balances are interrelated and are based on the timing of premium payments, both to and from us. In addition, funds legally restricted as to our use relating to premiums and clients’ claim funds held by us in a fiduciary capacity are
presented in our consolidated balance sheet as “Restricted Cash” and have not been included in determining our overall liquidity.

Our policy for funding our defined benefit pension plan is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements under the
IRC. The Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974, as amended (which we refer to as ERISA), could impose a minimum funding requirement for our plan. We were not required to make any minimum contributions to the plan for the 2016 and 2015 plan years.
Funding requirements are based on the plan being frozen and the aggregate amount of our historical funding. The plan’s actuaries determine contribution rates based on our funding practices and requirements. Funding amounts may be influenced by
future asset performance, the level of discount rates and other variables impacting the assets and/or liabilities of the plan. In addition, amounts funded in the future, to the extent not due under regulatory requirements, may be affected by
alternative uses of our cash flows, including dividends, acquisitions and common stock repurchases. During 2016 and 2015 we did not make discretionary contributions to the plan. We are not considering making additional discretionary contributions to
the plan in 2017, but may be required to make significantly larger minimum contributions to the plan in future periods.

See Note 12 to
our consolidated financial statements for additional information required to be disclosed relating to our defined benefit postretirement plans. We are required to recognize an accrued benefit plan liability for our underfunded defined benefit
pension and unfunded retiree medical plans (which we refer to together as the Plans). The offsetting adjustment to the liabilities required to be recognized for the Plans is recorded in “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Earnings (Loss),”
net of tax, in our consolidated balance sheet. We will recognize subsequent changes in the funded status of the Plans through the income statement and as a component of comprehensive earnings, as appropriate, in the year in which they occur.
Numerous items may lead to a change in funded status of the Plans, including actual results differing from prior estimates and assumptions, as well as changes in assumptions to reflect information available at the respective measurement dates.

In August 2014, we decided to pursue a pension

de-risking

strategy to reduce the size of our
long-term U.S. defined benefit pension plan obligations and the volatility of these obligations on our balance sheet. On September 12, 2014, the fiduciaries of the plan began offering certain former employees who were participants in the plan,
the option of receiving the value of their pension benefit in a lump sum payment or as an accelerated reduced annuity, in lieu of monthly annuity payments when they retire. The voluntary offer was made to approximately 2,500 terminated, vested
participants in the plan whose employment terminated with the company prior to August 1, 2014 and who had not commenced benefit payments as of November 1, 2014. Eligible participants had from September 12, 2014 to November 30,
2014 to accept the offer, and the

lump-sum

payments were made in November and December of 2014, and the accelerated reduced annuity payments began as of December 1, 2014. The aggregate lump sum payout
made in fourth quarter 2014 was $43.3 million. All payouts related to this offer were made using assets from the plan. This lump sum payout project reduced the Plan’s pension benefit obligation by approximately $60.0 million, while
improving its pension underfunding by almost $17.0 million as of December 31, 2014. Due to this significant obligation settlement, we incurred a

non-cash

pre-tax

charge of approximately $12.0 million in fourth quarter 2014, as a result of the U.S. GAAP requirement to expense the portion of the unrealized actuarial losses currently recognized as accumulated
other comprehensive loss, based on a ratio of the liability settled to the total liability within the plan at December 31, 2014.



In 2016, the funded status of the Plans was unfavorably impacted by a decrease in the discount rates used in
the measurement of the pension liabilities at December 31, 2016, the impact of which was approximately $8.2 million. However, the funded status was favorably impacted by returns on the plan’s assets being higher in 2016 than
anticipated by approximately $0.3 million and improvements in the mortality assumptions of $4.3 million and other pension gains of $4.4 million. The net change in the funded status of the Plan in 2016 resulted in a decrease in
noncurrent liabilities in 2016 of $0.8 million. While the change in funded status of the Plans had no direct impact on our cash flows from operations in 2016, 2015 and 2014, potential changes in the pension regulatory environment and investment
losses in our pension plan have an effect on our capital position and could require us to make significant contributions to our defined benefit pension plan and increase our pension expense in future periods.

Cash Flows From Investing Activities

Capital Expenditures -

Net capital expenditures were $217.8 million, $99.0 million and $81.5 million for 2016, 2015 and 2014,
respectively, of which $112.1 million, $13.3 million and $16.3 million, respectively, related to expenditures on our new corporate headquarters building. In 2017, we expect total expenditures for capital improvements to be
approximately $135.0 million, part of which is related to expenditures on our new corporate headquarters building (approximately $20.0 million), office moves and expansions and updating computer systems and equipment. Relating to the
development of our new corporate headquarters, we expect to receive property tax related credits under a

tax-increment

financing note from Rolling Meadows, Illinois and an Illinois state Edge tax credit.
Incentives from these two programs could total between $60.0 million and $80.0 million over a fifteen-year period. The net capital expenditures in 2016, 2015 and 2014 primarily related to capitalized costs associated with expenditures on
our new corporate headquarters building in 2016 and 2015 and the implementation of new accounting and financial reporting systems and several other system initiatives that occurred in 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Acquisitions -

Cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $327.3 million, $342.3 million and $1,918.3 million in 2016,
2015 and 2014, respectively. The decreased use of cash for acquisitions in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in the number of acquisitions that occurred in 2016. The decreased use of cash for acquisitions in 2015 compared to 2014
was primarily due to a decrease in the number of acquisitions that occurred in 2015. In addition, during 2016, 2015 and 2014 we issued 2.0 million shares ($89.6 million), 7.3 million shares ($338.9 million) and 6.5 million
shares ($292.8 million), respectively, of our common stock as payment for a portion of the total consideration paid for acquisitions and earnout payments. We completed 37, 44 and 60 acquisitions in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Annualized
revenues of businesses acquired in 2016, 2015 and 2014 totaled approximately $137.9 million, $230.8 million and $761.2 million, respectively. In 2017, we expect to use our debt, cash from operations and our common stock to fund all or
a portion of acquisitions we complete.

Dispositions -

During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we sold several books of business and recognized

one-time

gains of $6.6 million, $6.7 million and $7.3 million, respectively. We received cash proceeds of $7.8 million, $9.2 million and $8.2 million, respectively, related to these
transactions.

Clean Energy Investments

- During the period from 2009 through 2016, we have made significant investments in clean
energy operations capable of producing refined coal that we believe qualifies for tax credits under IRC Section 45. Our current estimate of the 2017 annual net after tax earnings, including IRC Section 45 tax credits, which will be
produced from all of our clean energy investments in 2017, is $117.0 million to $133.0 million. The IRC Section 45 tax credits generate positive cash flow by reducing the amount of Federal income taxes we pay, which is offset by the
operating expenses of the plants, by capital expenditures related to the redeployment, and in some cases the relocation of refined coal plants. We anticipate positive net cash flow related to IRC Section 45 activity in 2017. However, there are
several variables that can impact net cash flow from clean energy investments in any given year. Therefore, accurately predicting positive or negative cash flow in particular future periods is not possible at this time. Nonetheless, if current
ownership interests remain the same, if capital expenditures related to redeployment and relocation of refined coal plants remain as currently anticipated, and if we continue to generate sufficient taxable income to use the tax credits produced by
our IRC Section 45 investments, we anticipate that these investments will continue to generate positive net cash flows for the period 2017 through at least 2021. While we cannot precisely forecast the cash flow impact in any particular period,
we anticipate that the net cash flow impact of these investments will be positive overall. Please see “Clean energy investments” on pages 48 to 50 for a more detailed description of these investments (including the reference therein
to risks and uncertainties).

Cash Flows From Financing Activities

On April 8, 2016 we entered into an amendment and restatement to our multicurrency credit agreement dated September 19, 2013 (which we refer to as the Credit Agreement), with a group of fifteen
financial institutions. The amendment and restatement, among other things, extended the expiration date of the Credit Agreement from September 19, 2018 to April 8, 2021 and increased the revolving credit commitment from $600.0 million
to $800.0 million, of which $75.0 million may be used for issuances of standby or commercial letters of credit and up to $75.0 million may be used for the making of swing loans, (as defined in the Credit Agreement). We may from time
to time request, subject to certain conditions, an increase in the revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement up to a maximum aggregate revolving credit commitment of $1,100.0 million. There were $278.0 million of borrowings
outstanding under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2016. Due to the outstanding borrowing and letters of credit, $500.9 million remained available for potential borrowings under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2016.



We use the Credit Agreement to post letters of credit and to borrow funds to supplement our operating cash
flows from time to time. During 2016, we borrowed an aggregate of $2,740.0 million and repaid $2,657.0 million under our Credit Agreement. Principal uses of the 2016 borrowings under the Credit Agreement were to fund acquisitions, earnout
payments related to acquisitions and general corporate purposes. During 2015, we borrowed an aggregate of $849.0 million and repaid $794.0 million under our Credit Agreement. Principal uses of the 2015 borrowings under the Credit Agreement
were to fund acquisitions, earnout payments related to acquisitions and general corporate purposes. During 2014, we borrowed an aggregate of $1,109.9 million and repaid $1,500.4 million under our Credit Agreement. Principal uses of the
2014 borrowings under the Credit Agreement were to fund acquisitions, earnout payments related to acquisitions and general corporate purposes.

We have a secured revolving loan facility (which we refer to as the Premium Financing Debt Facility), that provides funding for the three Australian (AU) and New Zealand (NZ) premium finance subsidiaries.
The Premium Financing Debt Facility is comprised of: (i) Facility B, with is separated into AU$150.0 million and NZ$35.0 million tranches, (ii) Facility C, an AU$25.0 million equivalent multi-currency overdraft tranche
and (iii) Facility D, a NZ$15.0 million equivalent multi-currency overdraft tranche. The Premium Financing Debt Facility expires May 18, 2017. At December 31, 2016, $125.6 million of borrowings were outstanding under the
Premium Financing Debt Facility.

We use the Premium Financing Debt Facility to borrow funds to fund the premium financing activities of three
of our Australian (AU) and New Zealand (NZ) subsidiaries. In 2016 and 2015, we had net borrowings of $(12.2) million and $23.9 million, respectively, on the Premium Financing Debt Facility.

At December 31, 2016, we had $2,728.0 million of corporate-related borrowings outstanding under separate note purchase agreements entered into
in the period 2007 to 2016 and a cash and cash equivalent balance of $545.5 million. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the terms of the note purchase agreements and the Credit Agreement.

We completed a $275.0 million, ten year maturity, private placement debt transaction in 2016, with a weighted average interest rate of 4.47%. In
2016, we entered into a

pre-issuance

interest rate hedging transaction related to the $175.0 million 10 year tranche of the $275.0 million private placement debt. We realized a cash gain of
approximately $1.0 million on the hedging transaction that will be recognized on a pro rata basis as a reduction in our reported interest expense over the ten year life of the debt.

On November 30, 2016, we funded the $50.0 million 2016 maturity of our Series C note.

We completed a $100.0 million, eleven year maturity, private placement debt transaction on December 1, 2016, with an interest rate of 3.46%. A portion of the proceeds was used to fund the
$50.0 million of private placement debt that matured on November 30, 2016.

We anticipate raising at least $300.0 million in
the second half of 2017, primarily to refinance the August 2017, $300.0 million maturity of our Series B note.

The note purchase
agreements, the Credit Agreement and the Premium Financing Debt Facility contain various financial covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios. We were in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2016.

Dividends

-

Our board of directors determines our dividend policy. Our board of directors determines dividends on our common stock on a
quarterly basis after considering our available cash from earnings, our anticipated cash needs and current conditions in the economy and financial markets.

In 2016, we declared $272.5 million in cash dividends on our common stock, or $1.52 per common share. On December 16, 2016, we paid a fourth quarter dividend of $0.38 per common share to
shareholders of record as of December 2, 2016. On January 25, 2017, we announced a quarterly dividend for first quarter 2017 of $0.39 per common share. If the dividend is maintained at $0.39 per common share throughout 2017, this
dividend level would result in an annualized net cash used by financing activities in 2017 of approximately $278.1 million (based on the outstanding shares as of December 31, 2016), or an anticipated increase in cash used of approximately
$5.9 million compared to 2016. We can make no assurances regarding the amount of any future dividend payments.

Common Stock
Repurchases -

We have in place a common stock repurchase plan approved by our board of directors. We repurchased 2.3 million shares of our common stock at cost of $101.0 million (7.7 million remain available). We did not
repurchase any shares in 2015 and 2014. Under the provisions of the repurchase plan, we were authorized to repurchase approximately 10,000,000 additional shares at December 31, 2016. The plan authorizes the repurchase of our common stock at
such times and prices as we may deem advantageous, in transactions on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. We are under no commitment or obligation to repurchase any particular number of shares, and the plan may be suspended at
any time at our discretion. Funding for share repurchases may come from a variety of sources, including cash from operations, short-term or long-term borrowings under our Credit Agreement or other sources. There were no common stock repurchases made
in 2015 and 2014 that impacted our consolidated financial statements.



At-the-Market

Equity
Program

- On November 20, 2013, we entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement with Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, pursuant to which we may offer and sell, from time to time, up to $200 million (of which $15.6 million is
remaining) of our common stock through Morgan Stanley as sales agent. Pursuant to the agreement, shares may be sold by means of ordinary brokers’ transactions, including on the New York Stock Exchange, at market prices prevailing at the time of
sale, at prices related to the prevailing market prices, or at negotiated prices, in block transactions, or as otherwise agreed upon by us and Morgan Stanley. During 2016, we did not sell any shares of our common stock under the program.

Common Stock Issuances

-

Another source of liquidity to us is the issuance of our common stock pursuant to our stock option and employee
stock purchase plans. Proceeds from the issuance of common stock under these plans were $45.6 million in 2016, $54.1 million in 2015 and $56.3 million in 2014.

Outlook -

We believe that we have sufficient capital to meet our short- and long-term cash flow needs.

Contractual Obligations and Commitments

In connection with our investing and operating
activities, we have entered into certain contractual obligations and commitments. See Notes 7, 13 and 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of these obligations and commitments. Our future minimum cash payments,
including interest, associated with our contractual obligations pursuant to our note purchase agreements and Credit Agreement, operating leases and purchase commitments as of December 31, 2016 are as follows (in millions):

The amounts presented in the table above may not necessarily reflect our actual future cash funding requirements, because
the actual timing of the future payments made may vary from the stated contractual obligation. Outstanding purchase commitments in the table above include $10.6 million related to expenditures on our new corporate headquarters building. In
addition, due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2016, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period in which cash settlements may
be made with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $14.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on
income taxes.

See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the terms of the Credit Agreement and note
purchase agreements.

Off-Balance

Sheet Arrangements

Off-Balance

Sheet Commitments

-

Our total unrecorded commitments associated with outstanding letters
of credit, financial guarantees and funding commitments as of December 31, 2016 are as follows (in millions):

Since commitments may expire unused, the amounts presented in the table above do not necessarily reflect our actual
future cash funding requirements. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our funding commitments related to our corporate segment and the

Off-Balance

Sheet Debt section
below for a discussion of other letters of credit. All of the letters of credit represent multiple year commitments that have annual, automatic renewing provisions and are classified by the latest commitment date.



Since January 1, 2002, we have acquired 420 companies, all of which were accounted for using the
acquisition method for recording business combinations. Substantially all of the purchase agreements related to these acquisitions contain provisions for potential earnout obligations. For all of our acquisitions made in the period from 2013 to 2016
that contain potential earnout obligations, such obligations are measured at fair value as of the acquisition date and are included on that basis in the recorded purchase price consideration for the respective acquisition. The amounts recorded as
earnout payables are primarily based upon estimated future operating results of the acquired entities over a

two-

to three-year period subsequent to the acquisition date. The aggregate amount of the maximum
earnout obligations related to these acquisitions was $527.2 million, of which $242.3 million was recorded in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 based on the estimated fair value of the expected future payments to
be made.

Off-Balance

Sheet Debt

-

Our unconsolidated investment portfolio includes
investments in enterprises where our ownership interest is between 1% and 50%, in which management has determined that our level of influence and economic interest is not sufficient to require consolidation. As a result, these investments are
accounted for under the equity method. None of these unconsolidated investments had any outstanding debt at December 31, 2016 and 2015 that was recourse to us.

At December 31, 2016, we had posted two letters of credit totaling $9.3 million, in the aggregate, related to our self-insurance deductibles, for which we have recorded a liability of
$12.3 million. We have an equity investment in a

rent-a-captive

facility, which we use as a placement facility for certain of our insurance brokerage operations. At
December 31, 2016, we had posted seven letters of credit totaling $6.3 million to allow certain of our captive operations to meet minimum statutory surplus requirements and for additional collateral related to premium and claim funds held
in a fiduciary capacity, one letter of credit totaling $5.0 million to support our potential obligation under a client’s insurance program and one letter of credit totaling $0.5 million as a security deposit for a 2015
acquisition’s lease. These letters of credit have never been drawn upon.

Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

We are exposed to various market risks in our day to day operations. Market risk is the
potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest and foreign currency exchange rates and equity prices. The following analyses present the hypothetical loss in fair value of the financial instruments held by
us at December 31, 2016 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The range of changes in interest rates used in the analyses reflects our view of changes that are reasonably possible over a

one-year

period. This discussion of market risks related to our consolidated balance sheet includes estimates of future economic environments caused by changes in market risks. The effect of actual changes in
these market risk factors may differ materially from our estimates. In the ordinary course of business, we also face risks that are either nonfinancial or unquantifiable, including credit risk and legal risk. These risks are not included in the
following analyses.

Our invested assets are primarily held as cash and cash equivalents, which are subject to various market risk exposures
such as interest rate risk. The fair value of our portfolio of cash and our cash equivalents as of December 31, 2016 approximated its carrying value due to its short-term duration. We estimated market risk as the potential decrease in fair
value resulting from a hypothetical

one-percentage

point increase in interest rates for the instruments contained in the cash and cash equivalents investment portfolio. The resulting fair values were not
materially different from their carrying values at December 31, 2016.

As of December 31, 2016, we had $2,450.0 million of
borrowings outstanding under our various note purchase agreements. The aggregate estimated fair value of these borrowings at December 31, 2016 was $2,545.0 million due to the long-term duration and fixed interest rates associated with
these debt obligations. No active or observable market exists for our private placement

long-term

debt. Therefore, the estimated fair value of this debt is based on the income valuation approach, which is a
valuation technique that converts future amounts (for example, cash flows or income and expenses) to a single current (that is, discounted) amount. The fair value measurement is determined on the basis of the value indicated by current market
expectations about those future amounts. Because our debt issuances generate a measurable income stream for each lender, the income approach was deemed to be an appropriate methodology for valuing the private placement long-term debt. The
methodology used calculated the original deal spread at the time of each debt issuance, which was equal to the difference between the yield of each issuance (the coupon rate) and the equivalent benchmark treasury yield at that time. The market
spread as of the valuation date was calculated, which is equal to the difference between an index for investment grade insurers and the equivalent benchmark treasury yield today. An implied premium or discount to the par value of each debt issuance
based on the difference between the origination deal spread and market as of the valuation date was then calculated. The index we relied on to represent investment graded insurers was the Bloomberg Valuation Services (BVAL) U.S. Insurers BBB index.
This index is comprised primarily of insurance brokerage firms and was representative of the industry in which we operate. For the purposes of our analysis, the average BBB rate was assumed to be the appropriate borrowing rate for us based on our
current estimated credit rating.

We estimated market risk as the potential impact on the value of the debt recorded in our consolidated
balance sheet resulting from a hypothetical

one-percentage

point decrease in our weighted average borrowing rate as of December 31, 2016 and the resulting fair values would be $241.6 million higher
than their carrying value (or $2,691.6 million). We estimated market risk as the potential impact on the value of the debt recorded in our consolidated balance sheet resulting from a hypothetical one-percentage point increase in our weighted
average borrowing rate as of December 31, 2016 and the resulting fair values would be $40.5 million lower than their carrying value (or $2,409.5 million).



As of December 31, 2016, we had $278.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our Credit
Agreement. The fair value of these borrowings approximate their carrying value due to their short-term duration and variable interest rates associated with these debt obligations. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value
resulting from a hypothetical

one-percentage

point decrease in our weighted average short-term borrowing rate at December 31, 2016 and the resulting fair value is not be materially different from their
carrying value.

At December 31, 2016, we had $125.6 million of borrowings outstanding under our Premium Financing Debt Facility.
The fair value of these borrowings approximate their carrying value due to their short-term duration and variable interest rates associated with these debt obligations. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from
a hypothetical

one-percentage

point decrease in our weighted average short-term borrowing rate at December 31, 2016, and the resulting fair value is not materially different from their carrying value.

We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily from one of our larger U.K. based brokerage subsidiaries that incurs expenses
denominated primarily in British pounds while receiving a substantial portion of its revenues in U.S. dollars. In addition, we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk from our U.K., Australian, Canadian, Indian, Jamaican, New Zealand,
Norwegian, Singaporean and various Caribbean and South American operations because we transact business in their local denominated currencies. Foreign currency gains (losses) related to this market risk are recorded in earnings before income taxes
as transactions occur. Assuming a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in the average foreign currency exchange rate for 2016 (a weakening of the U.S. dollar), earnings before income taxes would have increased by approximately $6.7 million.
Assuming a hypothetical favorable change of 10% in the average foreign currency exchange rate for 2016 (a strengthening of the U.S. dollar), earnings before income taxes would have decreased by approximately $11.5 million. We are also
subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with the translation of local currencies of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. We manage the balance sheets of our foreign subsidiaries, where practical, such that foreign
liabilities are matched with equal foreign assets, maintaining a “balanced book” which minimizes the effects of currency fluctuations. However, our consolidated financial position is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk related to
intra-entity loans between our U.S. based subsidiaries and our

non-U.S.

based subsidiaries that are denominated in the respective local foreign currency. A transaction that is in a foreign currency is first
remeasured at the entity’s functional (local) currency, where applicable, (which is an adjustment to consolidated earnings) and then translated to the reporting (U.S. dollar) currency (which is an adjustment to consolidated stockholders’
equity) for consolidated reporting purposes. If the transaction is already denominated in the foreign entity’s functional currency, only the translation to U.S. dollar reporting is necessary. The remeasurement process required by U.S. GAAP for
such foreign currency loan transactions will give rise to a consolidated unrealized foreign exchange gain or loss, which could be material, that is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (loss).

Historically, we have not entered into derivatives or other similar financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. However, with respect to
managing foreign currency exchange rate risk in India, Norway and the U.K., we have periodically purchased financial instruments when market opportunities arose to minimize our exposure to this risk. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we had several
monthly put/call options in place with an external financial institution that are designed to hedge a significant portion of our future U.K. currency revenues (in 2016) and disbursements (in 2015) through various future payment dates. In addition,
during 2016, we had several monthly put/call options in place with an external financial institution that were designed to hedge a significant portion of our Indian currency disbursements through various future payment dates. Although these hedging
strategies were designed to protect us against significant U.K. and India currency exchange rate movements, we are still exposed to some foreign currency exchange rate risk for the portion of the payments and currency exchange rate that are
unhedged. The impact of these hedging strategies was not material to our consolidated financial statements for 2016, 2015 and 2014. See Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements for the changes in fair value of these derivative
instruments reflected in comprehensive earnings in 2016, 2015 and 2014. We entered into an AU$400.0 million foreign currency derivative investment contract that we executed on April 16, 2014 in connection with the signing of the agreement
to acquire the Crombie/OAMPS operations. This contract was designed to hedge a portion of the AU dollar denominated purchase price consideration of this acquisition. The derivative investment contract was exercised on June 16, 2014, the date
that the Crombie/OAMPS transaction closed. In second quarter 2014, we recorded a pretax gain of $1.9 million related to this derivative investment contract. These contracts were designed to hedge a portion of the GBP denominated purchase price
consideration of this acquisition.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Consolidated Statement of Earnings

(In millions, except per share
data)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Earnings

(In millions)

See notes to consolidated financial statements



Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Consolidated Balance Sheet

(In millions)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

(In millions)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity

(In millions)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity (continued)

(In millions)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2016

1.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Nature of Operations -

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to herein as we, our, us or the company,
provide insurance brokerage and risk management services to a wide variety of commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental organizations through three reportable operating segments. Commission and fee revenue generated by the brokerage
segment is primarily related to the negotiation and placement of insurance for our clients. Fee revenue generated by the risk management segment is primarily related to claims management, information management, risk control consulting (loss
control) services and appraisals in the property/casualty market. Investment income and other revenue are generated from our premium financing operations and our investment portfolio, which includes invested cash and restricted funds, as well as
clean energy and other investments. We are headquartered in Itasca, Illinois, have operations in 33 countries and offer client-service capabilities in more than 150 countries globally through a network of correspondent insurance brokers and
consultants.

Basis of Presentation -

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include our accounts and all of our
majority-owned subsidiaries (50% or greater ownership). Substantially all of our investments in partially owned entities in which our ownership is less than 50% are accounted for using the equity method based on the legal form of our ownership
interest and the applicable ownership percentage of the entity. However, in situations where a less than 50%-owned investment has been determined to be a variable interest entity (which we refer to as a VIE) and we are deemed to be the primary
beneficiary in accordance with the variable interest model of consolidation, we will consolidate the investment into our consolidated financial statements. For partially owned entities accounted for using the equity method, our share of the net
earnings of these entities is included in consolidated net earnings. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

In the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2016, management evaluated all material subsequent events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date
through the date on which the financial statements were issued for potential recognition in our consolidated financial statements and/or disclosure in the notes thereto.

Use of Estimates

- The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Such estimates and assumptions could change in the future as more information becomes known, which could impact the amounts reported and disclosed herein.

Revenue Recognition

- Our revenues are derived from commissions, fees and investment income.

We recognize commission revenues at the later of the billing or the effective date of the related insurance policies, net of an allowance for estimated
policy cancellations. We recognize commission revenues related to installment premiums as the installments are billed. We recognize supplemental commission revenues using internal data and information received from insurance carriers that allows us
to reasonably estimate the supplemental commissions earned in the period. A supplemental commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier that is above the base commission paid, is determined by the insurance carrier, and is established
annually in advance of the contractual period based on historical performance criteria. We recognize contingent commissions and commissions on premiums directly billed by insurance carriers as revenue when we have obtained the data necessary to
reasonably determine such amounts. Typically, we cannot reasonably determine these types of commission revenues until we have received the cash or the related policy detail or other carrier specific information from the insurance carrier. A
contingent commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier based on the overall profit and/or volume of the business placed with that insurance carrier during a particular calendar year and is determined after the contractual period.
Commissions on premiums billed directly by insurance carriers to the insureds generally relate to a large number of property/casualty insurance policy transactions, each with small premiums, and comprise a substantial portion of the revenues
generated by our employee benefit brokerage operations. Under these direct bill arrangements, the insurance carrier controls the entire billing and policy issuance process. We record the income effects of subsequent premium adjustments when the
adjustments become known.

Fee revenues generated from the brokerage segment primarily relate to fees negotiated in lieu of commissions that
we recognize in the same manner as commission revenues. Fee revenues generated from the risk management segment relate to third party claims administration, loss control and other risk management consulting services, which we provide over a period
of time, typically one year. We recognize these fee revenues ratably as the services are rendered, and record the income effects of subsequent fee adjustments when the adjustments become known.

We deduct brokerage expense from gross revenues in our determination of our total revenues. Brokerage expense represents commissions paid to

sub-brokers

related to the placement of certain business by our brokerage segment. We recognize this expense in the same manner as commission revenues.



Premiums and fees receivable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet are net of allowances for
estimated policy cancellations and doubtful accounts. The allowance for estimated policy cancellations was $7.1 million and $7.4 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which represents a reserve for future reversals in
commission and fee revenues related to the potential cancellation of client insurance policies that were in force as of each year end. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $12.8 million and $13.3 million at December 31, 2016 and
2015, respectively. We establish the allowance for estimated policy cancellations through a charge to revenues and the allowance for doubtful accounts through a charge to operating expenses. Both of these allowances are based on estimates and
assumptions using historical data to project future experience. Such estimates and assumptions could change in the future as more information becomes known which could impact the amounts reported and disclosed herein. We periodically review the
adequacy of these allowances and make adjustments as necessary.

Investment income primarily includes interest and dividend income (including
interest income from our premium financing operations), which is accrued as it is earned. Gains on books of business sales represent

one-time

gains related to sales of brokerage related businesses, which are
primarily recognized on a cash received basis. Revenues from clean coal activities include revenues from consolidated clean coal production plants, royalty income from clean coal licenses and income (loss) related to unconsolidated clean coal
production plants, all of which are recognized as earned. Revenues from consolidated clean coal production plants represent sales of refined coal. Royalty income from clean coal licenses represents fee income related to the use of clean coal
technologies. Income (loss) from unconsolidated clean coal production plants includes income (losses) related to our equity portion of the pretax results of the clean coal production plants and production based installment sale income from majority
investors.

Claims Handling Obligations

- We are obligated under certain circumstances to provide future claims handling and certain
administrative services for our former global risks brokerage clients in the U.K. Our obligation is the result of following the industry practice of insurance brokers providing future claims handling and administrative services to former clients. In
addition, under certain circumstances, our risk management segment operations are contractually obligated to provide contract claim settlement and administration services to our former clients. Accordingly, we record a liability for these deferred

run-off

obligations based on the estimated costs to provide these future services to former clients. This liability is based on estimates and assumptions using historical data to project future experience. Such
estimates and assumptions could change in the future as more information becomes known which could impact the amounts reported and disclosed herein. We periodically review (at least annually) the adequacy of this liability and will make adjustments
as necessary.

Earnings per Share

- Basic net earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted net earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the reporting period. Common
equivalent shares include incremental shares from dilutive stock options, which are calculated from the date of grant under the treasury stock method using the average market price for the period.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

- Short-term investments, consisting principally of cash and money market accounts that have average maturities of 90
days or less, are considered cash equivalents.

Restricted Cash

- In our capacity as an insurance broker, we collect premiums from
insureds and, after deducting our commissions and/or fees, remit these premiums to insurance carriers. We hold unremitted insurance premiums in a fiduciary capacity until we disburse them, and the use of such funds is restricted by laws in certain
states and foreign jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. Various state and foreign agencies regulate insurance brokers and provide specific requirements that limit the type of investments that may be made with such funds. Accordingly, we
invest these funds in cash and U.S. Treasury fund accounts. We can earn interest income on these unremitted funds, which is included in investment income in the accompanying consolidated statement of earnings. These unremitted amounts are reported
as restricted cash in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet, with the related liability reported as premiums payable to insurance and reinsurance companies. Additionally, several of our foreign subsidiaries are required by various foreign
agencies to meet certain liquidity and solvency requirements. We were in compliance with these requirements at December 31, 2016.

Related to our third party administration business and in certain of our brokerage operations, we are responsible for client claim funds that we hold in
a fiduciary capacity. We do not earn any interest income on the funds held. These client funds have been included in restricted cash, along with a corresponding liability in premiums payable to insurance and reinsurance companies in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet.

Derivative Instruments

- In the normal course of business, we are exposed to the impact of foreign
currency fluctuations that impact our results of operations and cash flows. We utilize a foreign currency risk management program involving foreign currency derivatives that consist of several monthly put/call options designed to hedge a portion of
our future foreign currency disbursements through various future payment dates. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk we only enter into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other
factors. These derivative instrument contracts are cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting and primarily hedge against fluctuations between changes in the GBP and Indian Rupee versus the U.S. dollar. Changes in fair value of the
derivative instruments are reflected in other comprehensive earnings in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The impact of the hedge at maturity is recognized in the income statement as a component of investment income, compensation and
operating expenses depending on the nature of the



hedged item. These derivative instrument contracts are periodically monitored for hedge ineffectiveness, the amount of which has not been material to the accompanying consolidated financial
statements. We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. In 2014, other net revenues also includes a gain of $1.9 million related to an AU$400.0 million foreign currency derivative investment contract that we executed on
April 16, 2014 in connection with the signing of the agreement to acquire the Crombie/OAMPS operations, headquartered in Australia. This contract was designed to hedge a portion of the AU dollar denominated purchase price consideration of this
acquisition. The derivative investment contract was exercised on June 16, 2014, the date that the Crombie/OAMPS transaction closed.

Premium Financing

- Seven subsidiaries of the brokerage segment make short-term loans (generally with terms of twelve months or less) to our
clients to finance premiums. These premium financing contracts are structured to minimize potential bad debt expense to us. Such receivables are generally considered delinquent after seven days of the payment due date. In normal course, insurance
policies are cancelled within one month of the contractual payment due date if the payment remains delinquent. We recognize interest income as it is earned over the life of the contract using the “level-yield” method. Unearned interest
related to contracts receivable is included in the receivable balance in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The outstanding loan receivable balance was $241.2 million and $220.2 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015,
respectively.

Fixed Assets

- We carry fixed assets at cost, less accumulated depreciation, in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet. We periodically review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Under those circumstances, if the fair value were less
than the carrying amount of the asset, we would recognize a loss for the difference. Depreciation for fixed assets is computed using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:

Intangible Assets

- Intangible assets represent the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net tangible
assets of acquired businesses. Our primary intangible assets are classified as either goodwill, expiration lists,

non-compete

agreements or trade names. Expiration lists,

non-compete

agreements and trade names are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives (three to fifteen years for expiration lists, three to five years for

non-compete

agreements and five to fifteen years for trade names), while goodwill is not subject to amortization. The establishment of goodwill, expiration lists,

non-compete

agreements and trade names and the determination of estimated useful lives are primarily based on valuations we receive from qualified independent appraisers. The calculations of these amounts are
based on estimates and assumptions using historical and projected financial information and recognized valuation methods. Different estimates or assumptions could produce different results. We carry intangible assets at cost, less accumulated
amortization, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

We review all of our intangible assets for impairment periodically (at least
annually for goodwill) and whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. We perform such impairment reviews at the division (i.e., reporting unit) level with respect to
goodwill and at the business unit level for amortizable intangible assets. In reviewing intangible assets, if the fair value were less than the carrying amount of the respective (or underlying) asset, an indicator of impairment would exist and
further analysis would be required to determine whether or not a loss would need to be charged against current period earnings as a component of amortization expense. Based on the results of impairment reviews in 2016, 2015 and 2014, we wrote off
$1.8 million, $11.5 million and $1.8 million, respectively, of amortizable intangible assets primarily related to prior year acquisitions of our brokerage segment, which is included in amortization expense in the accompanying
consolidated statement of earnings. The determinations of impairment indicators and fair value are based on estimates and assumptions related to the amount and timing of future cash flows and future interest rates. Such estimates and assumptions
could change in the future as more information becomes known which could impact the amounts reported and disclosed herein.



Income Taxes

-

Our tax rate reflects the statutory tax rates applicable to our taxable
earnings and tax planning in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining the annual effective tax rate and in evaluating uncertain tax positions. We report a liability for unrecognized tax benefits
resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in our tax return. We evaluate our tax positions using a

two-step

process. The first step involves recognition. We determine whether it is
more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon tax examination based solely on the technical merits of the position. The technical merits of a tax position are derived from both statutory and judicial authority (legislation and
statutes, legislative intent, regulations, rulings and case law) and their applicability to the facts and circumstances of the position. If a tax position does not meet the “more likely than not” recognition threshold, we do not recognize
the benefit of that position in the financial statements. The second step is measurement. A tax position that meets the “more likely than not” recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the
financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that has a likelihood of greater than 50% of being realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority.

Uncertain tax positions are measured based upon the facts and circumstances that exist at each reporting period and involve significant management
judgment. Subsequent changes in judgment based upon new information may lead to changes in recognition, derecognition and measurement. Adjustments may result, for example, upon resolution of an issue with the taxing authorities, or expiration of a
statute of limitations barring an assessment for an issue. We recognize interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in our provision for income taxes.

Tax law requires certain items to be included in our tax returns at different times than such items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the annual tax expense reflected in our
consolidated statements of earnings is different than that reported in our tax returns. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax returns, and some differences are temporary and reverse over time,
such as depreciation expense and amortization expense deductible for income tax purposes. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial
statements for which a tax payment has been deferred, or expense which has been deducted in the tax return but has not yet been recognized in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction
or credit in tax returns in future years for which a benefit has already been recorded in the financial statements.

We establish or adjust
valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when we estimate that it is more likely than not that future taxable income will be insufficient to fully use a deduction or credit in a specific jurisdiction. In assessing the need for the recognition of
a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjust the valuation allowance accordingly. We evaluate all significant
available positive and negative evidence as part of our analysis. Negative evidence includes the existence of losses in recent years. Positive evidence includes the forecast of future taxable income by jurisdiction,

tax-planning

strategies that would result in the realization of deferred tax assets and the presence of taxable income in prior carryback years. The underlying assumptions we use in forecasting future taxable
income require significant judgment and take into account our recent performance. Such estimates and assumptions could change in the future as more information becomes known which could impact the amounts reported and disclosed herein. The ultimate
realization of deferred tax assets depends on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which temporary differences are deductible or creditable.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

- Fair value accounting establishes a framework for measuring fair value, which is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (i.e., an exit price). This framework includes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to the valuation technique used to measure fair
value.

The classification of a financial instrument within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation
of an asset or liability on the measurement date. The three levels of the hierarchy in order of priority of inputs to the valuation technique are defined as follows:

•

Level 1 - Valuations are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments;

•

Level 2 - Valuations are based on quoted market prices, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, in markets that are not
active or on inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for the full term of the financial instrument; and

•

Level 3 - Valuations are based on pricing or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the
overall fair value measurement of the financial instrument. Such inputs may reflect management’s own assumptions about the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the financial instrument.

The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement is classified is determined based on the lowest level input that is
significant to the fair value measure in its entirety.



The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities reported in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet for cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, premiums and fees receivable, premiums payable to insurance carriers, accrued salaries and bonuses, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, unearned fees and income taxes payable, at
December 31, 2016 and 2015, approximate fair value because of the short-term duration of these instruments. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for the fair values related to the establishment of intangible assets and the
establishment and adjustment of earnout payables. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for the fair values related to borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2016 and 2015 under our debt agreements. See Note 12 to our
consolidated financial statements for the fair values related to investments at December 31, 2016 and 2015 under our defined benefit pension plan.

Litigation -

We are the defendant in various legal actions related to claims, lawsuits and proceedings incident to the nature of our business. We record liabilities for loss contingencies,
including legal costs (such as fees and expenses of external lawyers and other service providers) to be incurred, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred on or before the balance sheet date and the amount of the liability can be
reasonably estimated. We do not discount such contingent liabilities. To the extent recovery of such losses and legal costs is probable under our insurance programs, we record estimated recoveries concurrently with the losses recognized. Significant
management judgment is required to estimate the amounts of such contingent liabilities and the related insurance recoveries. In order to assess our potential liability, we analyze our litigation exposure based on available information, including
consultation with outside counsel handling the defense of these matters. As these liabilities are uncertain by their nature, the recorded amounts may change due to a variety of different factors, including new developments in, or changes in
approach, such as changing the settlement strategy as applicable to each matter.

Retention bonus arrangements

- In connection with the
hiring and retention of both new talent and experienced personnel, including our senior management, brokers and other key personnel, we have entered into various agreements with key employees setting up the conditions for the cash payment of certain
retention bonuses. These bonuses are an incentive for these employees to remain with the company, for a fixed period of time, to allow us to capitalize on their knowledge and experience. We have various forms of retention bonus arrangements; some
are paid up front and some are paid at the end of the term, but all are contingent upon successfully completing a minimum period of employment. A retention bonus that is paid to an employee upfront that is contingent on a certain minimum period of
employment, will be initially classified as a prepaid asset and amortized to compensation expense as the future services are rendered over the duration of the stay period. A retention bonus that is paid to an employee at the end of the term that is
contingent on a certain minimum period of employment, will be accrued as a liability through compensation expense as the future services are rendered over the duration of the stay period. If an employee leaves prior to the required time frame to
earn the retention bonus outright, then all or any portion that is ultimately unearned or refundable, and recovered by the company if prepaid, is forfeited and reversed through compensation expense.

Stock-Based Compensation -

We have several employee equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation plans. Equity-settled share-based
payments to employees include grants of stock options, performance stock units and restricted stock units and are measured based on estimated grant date fair value. We have elected to use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair
value of stock options on the dates of grant. Performance stock units are measured on the probable outcome of the performance conditions applicable to each grant. Restricted stock units are measured based on the fair market values of the underlying
stock on the dates of grant. Shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the minimum statutory tax withholding requirements, as applicable, to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, the actual number of shares issued will be fewer
than the actual number of performance stock units and restricted stock units outstanding. Furthermore, we record the liability for withholding amounts to be paid by us as a reduction to additional

paid-in

capital when paid.

Cash-settled share-based payments to employees include awards under our Performance Unit Program and stock appreciation
rights. The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of cash-settled share-based payments is recognized as compensation expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the vesting period. The liability is remeasured at
each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes in fair value of the liability are recognized as compensation expense.

We recognize
share-based compensation expense over the requisite service period for awards expected to ultimately vest. Forfeitures are estimated on the date of grant and revised if actual or expected forfeiture activity differs from original estimates.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

- We have an employee stock purchase plan (which we refer to as the ESPP), under which the sale of
8.0 million shares of our common stock has been authorized. Eligible employees may contribute up to 15% of their compensation towards the quarterly purchase of our common stock at a purchase price equal to 95% of the lesser of the fair market
value of our common stock on the first business day or the last business day of the quarterly offering period. Eligible employees may annually purchase shares of our common stock with an aggregate fair market value of up to $25,000 (measured as of
the first day of each quarterly offering period of each calendar year), provided that no employee may purchase more than 2,000 shares of our common stock under the ESPP during any calendar year. At December 31, 2016, 7.5 million shares of
our common stock was reserved for future issuance under the ESPP.

Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans

- We
recognize in our consolidated balance sheet, an asset for our defined benefit postretirement plans’ overfunded status or a liability for our plans’ underfunded status. We recognize changes in the funded status of our defined benefit
postretirement plans in comprehensive earnings in the year in which the changes occur. We use December 31 as the measurement date for our plans’ assets and benefit obligations. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information required to be disclosed related to our defined benefit postretirement plans.



2.

Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements

Leases

In February 2016, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (which we refer to as the FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (which we refer to as ASU)

2016-02,

Leases (Topic 842). Under this new accounting guidance, an
entity is required to recognize

right-of-use

assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This new
guidance offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the
financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This new guidance is effective for first quarter 2019, and requires a modified retrospective adoption, with early adoption
permitted.

We anticipate this guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. While we are continuing to assess
all potential impacts of the new guidance, we currently believe the most significant impact relates to our real estate operating leases and the related recognition of

right-of-use

assets and lease liabilities in both noncurrent assets and noncurrent liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet.

Stock Compensation

In March 2016,
the FASB issued ASU No.

2016-09, Improvements

to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This new accounting guidance requires that all companies recognize the income tax effects of awards in
the income statement when the awards vest or are settled, rather than maintaining an APIC pool and recognizing the tax benefits in excess of compensation costs through stockholders’ equity. As it relates to forfeitures, the new guidance
allows for companies to choose whether to continue to estimate forfeitures or account for forfeitures as they occur. This new guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15,
2016. Early adoption was permitted and the new guidance may be applied either retrospectively or on a prospective basis. Management believes that the adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements.

Cash Receipts and Cash Payments

In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.

2016-15,

Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (a consensus of the Emerging Issues Task
Force),

(ASU 2016-15).

The amendments in

ASU 2016-15

address eight specific cash flow issues and apply to all entities that are required to present a statement
of cash flows under ASC 230, Statement of Cash Flows. This new guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is
permitted, including adoption in an interim period. We are currently reviewing the new guidance, and the impact from its adoption on our consolidated financial statements cannot be determined at this time.

Consolidations

In October 2016,
the FASB issued ASU No.

2016-17,

Consolidation (Topic 810): Interests Held through Related Parties That Are under Common Control. This new accounting guidance affects consolidation of variable
interest entities in certain situations involving entities under common control. This new guidance is effective beginning on January 1, 2017 and is to be applied to all periods since adoption of ASU No.

2015-02,

which we adopted effective January 1, 2016. We do not expect that the adoption of this new guidance will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.

Income Taxes

In October 2016, the
FASB issued ASU No.

2016-16,

Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. This new accounting guidance allows entities to recognize the income tax consequences of
an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Current guidance does not allow recognition until the asset has been sold to an outside party. This new guidance is effective beginning on January 1, 2018 and
is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis. Early adoption is permitted. We have not yet determined the effect that adoption of this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.

Restricted Cash

In November 2016,
the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update

2016-18,

Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash. This new accounting guidance addresses the classification and presentation of changes in
restricted cash on the statement of cash flows under Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flows. This guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal
years. Early adoption is permitted for all entities. We are currently assessing the impact that adopting this new guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.

Consolidations

In February 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.

2015-02,

Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis. This new accounting guidance on consolidations eliminates the deferral granted to investment companies from applying the variable interest entities guidance and
makes targeted amendments to the current consolidation guidance. The new guidance applies to all entities involved with limited partnerships or similar entities and will require

re-evaluation

of these entities
under the revised guidance, which could have changed previous consolidation conclusions. The new guidance was effective in first quarter 2016 and has been applied by us. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements.



Debt Issuance Costs

In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.

2015-03,

Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs. This new accounting guidance requires debt issuance
costs to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the associated debt liability. The new guidance was effective in first quarter 2016 and has been applied by us on a retrospective basis. Accordingly, we have reclassified debt
issuance costs of $3.3 million previously included in Other

non-current

assets to Corporate related borrowings

-

noncurrent in our consolidated balance sheet as of
December 31, 2015.

Intangibles - Goodwill and Other

In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.

2015-05,

Intangibles—Goodwill and

Other—Internal-Use

Software

(Subtopic 350-40):

Customer’s Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement. This new guidance provides additional information to help entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement
contains a software license that should be accounted for as

internal-use

software or as a service contract. The new guidance was effective in first quarter 2016 and has been applied by us. The adoption of this
guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Business Combinations

In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.

2015-16,

Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying
the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments. The new accounting guidance requires that measurement period adjustments be recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment amount is determined rather than retrospectively applying the
change to the acquisition date. The new guidance was effective in first quarter 2016 and was applied by us. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Income Taxes

In November 2015, the
FASB issued ASU No.

2015-17,

Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes. The new accounting guidance requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as
noncurrent on the balance sheet rather than being separated into current and noncurrent components.

ASU 2015-17

is effective in first quarter 2017. Early adoption is permitted and the standard may be
applied either retrospectively or on a prospective basis to all deferred tax assets and liabilities. We early adopted

ASU 2015-17

during first quarter 2016 on a retrospective basis. Accordingly, we
reclassified the current deferred taxes to noncurrent in our December 31, 2015 consolidated balance sheet, which increased Noncurrent deferred tax assets by $122.1 million and increased Other noncurrent liabilities by $4.6 million.
See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income tax balances.

Revenue Recognition

In 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.

2014-09,

Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as a Topic, ASC 606,
which will supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The core principal of the new accounting guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an
amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash
flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. The new guidance is effective for us in first quarter 2018 and early
adoption is permitted beginning in first quarter 2017. Two methods of transition are permitted upon adoption: full retrospective and modified retrospective. Under the full retrospective method, prior periods would be restated under the new revenue
standard, providing a comparable view across all periods presented. Under the modified retrospective method, prior periods would not be restated. Rather, revenues and other disclosures for

pre-2018

periods
would be provided in the notes to the financial statements as previously reported under the current revenue guidance. We will adopt this new guidance in the first quarter 2018. We are evaluating both methods of transition; however, we currently
anticipate adopting the new guidance using the full retrospective method to restate each prior reporting period presented.

A preliminary
assessment to determine the impacts of the new accounting standard has been performed. We are currently implementing new accounting and operational processes which will be impacted by the new guidance, but we are unable to provide information on
quantitative impacts at this time. We anticipate this standard will have a material impact on individual lines in our consolidated financial statements, but we do not expect it will have as material an impact on our results of operations on an
annual basis. The primary impacts of the new standard to our product and service lines are anticipated to be as follows:

Brokerage segment

Revenue

- We currently recognize revenue for some of our brokerage activities such as direct bill and contingent commission revenue
over a period of time either due to the transfer of value to our customers or as the remuneration becomes determinable. Under the new guidance, these revenues will be substantially recognized at a point in time on the effective date of the
associated policies when control of the policy transfers to the customer. Conversely under the new guidance we may need to defer certain revenues to reflect delivery of services over the contract period. As a result, revenue from certain
arrangements will be recognized in earlier periods under the new guidance in comparison to our current accounting policies and others will be recognized in later periods. We have not yet identified the net effect of all of these changes on the
timing and amount of revenue recognized for annual and interim periods.



Expense

- Amendments to ASC Topic 340, Other Assets and Deferred Costs, require the
capitalization of costs to obtain and costs to fulfill customer contracts, which are currently expensed as incurred. The assets recognized for the costs to obtain and/or fulfill a contract will be amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent
with the transfer of the services to which the asset relates. We are currently determining the nature and quantifying the amount of costs that would qualify for capitalization and the amount of amortization that will be recognized in each period.

Risk management segment

We
are currently assessing the timing and measurement of revenue recognition under the new guidance for our risk management segment, specifically third party administration contracts among others, and anticipate that more revenue will be initially
deferred and recognized over a longer future period of time than under our current accounting policies.

Corporate segment

We expect that the timing related to recognition of revenue in our corporate segment will remain substantially unchanged.

3.

Business Combinations

During 2016, we
acquired substantially all of the net assets of the following firms in exchange for our common stock and/or cash. These acquisitions have been accounted for using the acquisition method for recording business combinations (in millions except
share data):



Common shares issued in connection with acquisitions are valued at closing market prices as of the effective date of the
applicable acquisition. We record escrow deposits that are returned to us as a result of adjustments to net assets acquired as reductions of goodwill when the escrows are settled. The maximum potential earnout payables disclosed in the foregoing
table represent the maximum amount of additional consideration that could be paid pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement for the applicable acquisition. The amounts recorded as earnout payables, which are primarily based upon the estimated
future operating results of the acquired entities over a

two-

to three-year period subsequent to the acquisition date, are measured at fair



value as of the acquisition date and are included on that basis in the recorded purchase price consideration in the foregoing table. We will record subsequent changes in these estimated earnout
obligations, including the accretion of discount, in our consolidated statement of earnings when incurred.

The fair value of these earnout
obligations is based on the present value of the expected future payments to be made to the sellers of the acquired entities in accordance with the provisions outlined in the respective purchase agreements, which is a Level 3 fair value
measurement. In determining fair value, we estimated the acquired entity’s future performance using financial projections developed by management for the acquired entity and market participant assumptions that were derived for revenue growth
and/or profitability. Revenue growth rates generally ranged from 3.5% to 16.0% for our 2016 acquisitions. We estimated future payments using the earnout formula and performance targets specified in each purchase agreement and these financial
projections. We then discounted these payments to present value using a risk-adjusted rate that takes into consideration market-based rates of return that reflect the ability of the acquired entity to achieve the targets. These discount rates
generally ranged from 8.0% to 9.5% for our 2016 acquisitions. Changes in financial projections, market participant assumptions for revenue growth and/or profitability, or the risk-adjusted discount rate, would result in a change in the fair value of
recorded earnout obligations.

During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recognized $16.9 million, $16.2 million and $14.5 million,
respectively, of expense in our consolidated statement of earnings related to the accretion of the discount recorded for earnout obligations in connection with our acquisitions. In addition, during 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recognized
$15.2 million, $24.4 million and $3.0 million of expense, respectively, related to net adjustments in the estimated fair value of the liability for earnout obligations in connection with revised projections of future performance for
101, 105 and 67 acquisitions, respectively. The aggregate amount of maximum earnout obligations related to acquisitions made in 2013 and subsequent years was $527.2 million as of December 31, 2016, of which $242.3 million was recorded
in the consolidated balance sheet as of that date based on the estimated fair value of the expected future payments to be made. The aggregate amount of maximum earnout obligations related to acquisitions made in 2012 and subsequent years was
$565.4 million as of December 31, 2015, of which $229.7 million was recorded in the consolidated balance sheet as of that date based on the estimated fair value of the expected future payments to be made.

The following is a summary of the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired at the date of each acquisition made in 2016 (in millions):

Among other things, these acquisitions allow us to expand into desirable geographic locations, further extend our
presence in the retail and wholesale insurance brokerage services and risk management industries and increase the volume of general services currently provided. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the tangible net
assets acquired at the acquisition date was allocated to goodwill, expiration lists,

non-compete

agreements and trade names in the amounts of $225.4 million, $218.1 million, $2.8 million and
$0.4 million, respectively, within the brokerage segment.



Provisional estimates of fair value are established at the time of the acquisition and are subsequently
reviewed within the first year of operations subsequent to the acquisition date to determine the necessity for adjustments. The fair value of the tangible assets and liabilities for each applicable acquisition at the acquisition date approximated
their carrying values. The fair value of expiration lists was established using the excess earnings method, which is an income approach based on estimated financial projections developed by management for each acquired entity using market
participant assumptions. Revenue growth and attrition rates generally ranged from 1.0% to 3.0% and 2.5% to 12.5% for our 2016 acquisitions, respectively, for which a valuation was performed. We estimate the fair value as the present value of the
benefits anticipated from ownership of the subject customer list in excess of returns required on the investment in contributory assets necessary to realize those benefits. The rate used to discount the net benefits was based on a risk-adjusted rate
that takes into consideration market-based rates of return and reflects the risk of the asset relative to the acquired business. These discount rates generally ranged from 12.0% to 19.0% for our 2016 acquisitions, for which a valuation was
performed. The fair value of

non-compete

agreements was established using the profit differential method, which is an income approach based on estimated financial projections developed by management for the
acquired company using market participant assumptions and various

non-compete

scenarios.

Of the
$218.1 million of expiration lists, $2.8 million of

non-compete

agreements and $0.4 million of trade names related to the 2016 acquisitions, $92.6 million, $1.4 million and
$0.4 million, respectively, is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. Accordingly, we recorded a deferred tax liability of $27.3 million, and a corresponding amount of goodwill, in 2016 related to the nondeductible
amortizable intangible assets.

Our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 include the operations of the
acquired entities from their respective acquisition dates. The following is a summary of the unaudited pro forma historical results, as if these entities had been acquired at January 1, 2015 (in millions, except per share data):

The unaudited pro forma results above have been prepared for comparative purposes only and do not purport to be
indicative of the results of operations which actually would have resulted had these acquisitions occurred at January 1, 2015, nor are they necessarily indicative of future operating results. Annualized revenues of entities acquired in 2016
totaled approximately $137.9 million. Total revenues and net earnings recorded in our consolidated statement of earnings for 2016 related to the 2016 acquisitions in the aggregate were $73.3 million and $4.2 million, respectively.

4.

Other Current Assets

Major classes of
other current assets consist of the following (in millions):

The premium finance loans represent short-term loans which we make to many of our brokerage related clients and other

non-brokerage

clients to finance their premiums paid to insurance carriers. These premium finance loans are primarily generated by the three Australian and New Zealand premium finance subsidiaries. Financing
receivables are carried at amortized cost. Given that these receivables are collateralized, carry a fairly rapid delinquency period of only seven days post payment date, and that contractually the majority of the underlying insurance policies will
be cancelled within one month of the payment due date in normal course, there historically has been a minimal risk of not receiving payment, and therefore we do not maintain any significant allowance for losses against this balance.



5.

Fixed Assets

Major classes of fixed
assets consist of the following (in millions):

The amounts in work in process in the table above primarily are for capitalized expenditures incurred related to IT
development projects in 2016 and 2015. Also included in work in process in 2015 are capitalized expenditures incurred related to our new corporate headquarters building. In fourth quarter 2016, we reclassified work in process type assets related to
our new corporate headquarters and other projects of $46.3 million, included in Other noncurrent assets, to Fixed assets in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015.

6.

Intangible Assets

The carrying amount of
goodwill at December 31, 2016 and 2015 allocated by domestic and foreign operations is as follows (in millions):



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for 2016 and 2015 are as follows (in millions):

Major classes of amortizable intangible assets consist of the following (in millions):

Estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the next five years is as follows (in millions):



7.

Credit and Other Debt Agreements

The
following is a summary of our corporate and other debt (in millions):

Note Purchase Agreements -

We are a party to an amended and restated note purchase agreement dated
December 19, 2007, with certain accredited institutional investors, pursuant to which we issued and sold $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 6.44% Senior Notes, Series B, due August 3, 2017, in a private placement.
These notes require semi-annual payments of interest that are due in February and August of each year.

We are a party to a note purchase
agreement dated November 30, 2009, with certain accredited institutional investors, pursuant to which we issued and sold $150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 5.85% Senior Notes, Series C, due in three equal installments on
November 30, 2016, November 30, 2018 and November 30, 2019, in a private placement. These notes require semi-annual payments of interest that are due in May and November of each year. On November 30, 2016, we funded the
$50.0 million 2016 maturity of our Series C note.



We are a party to a note purchase agreement dated February 10, 2011, with certain accredited
institutional investors, pursuant to which we issued and sold $75.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 5.18% Senior Notes, Series D, due February 10, 2021 and $50.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 5.49% Senior
Notes, Series E, due February 10, 2023, in a private placement. These notes require semi-annual payments of interest that are due in February and August of each year.

We are a party to a note purchase agreement dated July 10, 2012, with certain accredited institutional investors, pursuant to which we issued and sold $50.0 million in aggregate principal amount
of our 3.99% Senior Notes, Series F, due July 10, 2020, in a private placement. These notes require semi-annual payments of interest that are due in January and July of each year.

We are a party to a note purchase agreement dated June 14, 2013, with certain accredited institutional investors, pursuant to which we issued and sold $200.0 million in aggregate principal
amount of our 3.69% Senior Notes, Series G, due June 14, 2022, in a private placement. These notes require semi-annual payments of interest that are due in June and December of each year.

We are a party to a note purchase agreement dated December 20, 2013, with certain accredited investors, pursuant to which we issued and sold
$325.0 million in aggregate principle amount of our 4.58% Senior Notes, Series H, due February 27, 2024, $175.0 million in aggregate principle amount of our 4.73% Senior Notes, Series I, due February 27, 2026 and
$100.0 million in aggregate principle amount of our 4.98% Senior Notes, Series J, due February 27, 2029. These notes will require semi-annual payments of interest that due in February and August of each year. The funding of this note
purchase agreement occurred on February 27, 2014. We incurred approximately $1.4 million of debt acquisition costs that was capitalized and will be amortized on a pro rata basis over the life of the debt.

We are a party to a note purchase agreement dated June 24, 2014, with certain accredited institutional investors, pursuant to which we issued and
sold $50.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.80% Senior Notes, Series K, due June 24, 2018, $50.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 3.20% Senior Notes, Series L, due June 24, 2019,
$50.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 3.48% Senior Notes, Series M, due June 24, 2020, $200.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.13% Senior Notes, Series N, due June 24, 2023,
$200.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.31% Senior Notes, Series O, due June 24, 2025 and $150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.36% Senior Notes, Series P, due June 24, 2026. These notes
require semi-annual payments of interest that are due in June and December of each year. We incurred approximately $2.6 million of debt acquisition costs that was capitalized and will be amortized on a pro rata basis over the life of the debt.

We are a party to a note purchase agreement dated June 2, 2016, with certain accredited institutional investors, pursuant to which we
issued and sold $175.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.40% Senior Notes, Series Q, due June 2, 2026, $75.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.55% Senior Notes, Series R, due June 2, 2028 and
$25.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.70% Senior Notes, Series S, due June 2, 2031. These notes require semi-annual payments of interest that are due in June and December of each year. We incurred approximately
$1.2 million of debt acquisition costs that was capitalized and will be amortized on a pro rata basis over the life of the debt. In addition, we realized a cash gain of approximately $1.0 million on the hedging transaction that will be
recognized on a pro rata basis as a reduction in our reported interest expense over the ten year life of the debt.

We are a party to a note
purchase agreement dated December 1, 2016, with certain accredited institutional investors, pursuant to which we issued and sold $100.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 3.46% Senior Notes, Series T, due December 1,
2027, in a private placement. These notes require semi-annual payments of interest that are due in June and December of each year.

Under the
terms of the note purchase agreements described above, we may redeem the notes at any time, in whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount of such notes being redeemed, together with accrued and unpaid interest and a “make-whole
amount”. The “make-whole amount” is derived from a net present value computation of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest using a discount rate based on the U.S. Treasury yield plus 0.5% and is designed to
compensate the purchasers of the notes for their investment risk in the event prevailing interest rates at the time of prepayment are less favorable than the interest rates under the notes. We do not currently intend to prepay any of the notes.

The note purchase agreements described above contain customary provisions for transactions of this type, including representations and
warranties regarding us and our subsidiaries and various financial covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios. We were in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2016. The note purchase
agreements also provide customary events of default, generally with corresponding grace periods, including, without limitation, payment defaults with respect to the notes, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other agreements evidencing our or our
subsidiaries’ indebtedness, certain judgments against us or our subsidiaries and events of bankruptcy involving us or our material subsidiaries.

The notes issued under the note purchase agreement are senior unsecured obligations of ours and rank equal in right of payment with our Credit Agreement discussed below.



Credit Agreement

- On April 8, 2016, we entered into an amendment and restatement to our
multicurrency credit agreement dated September 19, 2013, (which we refer to as the Credit Agreement) with a group of fifteen financial institutions. The amendment and restatement, among other things, extended the expiration date of the Credit
Agreement from September 19, 2018 to April 8, 2021 and increased the revolving credit commitment from $600.0 million to $800.0 million, of which up to $75.0 million may be used for issuances of standby or commercial letters
of credit and up to $75.0 million may be used for the making of swing loans (as defined in the Credit Agreement). We may from time to time request, subject to certain conditions, an increase in the revolving credit commitment under the Credit
Agreement up to a maximum aggregate revolving credit commitment of $1,100.0 million.

The Credit Agreement provides that we may elect
that each borrowing in U.S. dollars be either base rate loans or eurocurrency loans, each as defined in the Credit Agreement. However, the Credit Agreement provides that all loans denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars will be
eurocurrency loans. Interest rates on base rate loans and outstanding drawings on letters of credit in U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement will be based on the base rate, as defined in the Credit Agreement, plus a margin of 0.00% to 0.45%,
depending on the financial leverage ratio we maintain. Interest rates on eurocurrency loans or outstanding drawings on letters of credit in currencies other than U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement will be based on adjusted LIBOR, as defined in
the Credit Agreement, plus a margin of 0.85% to 1.45%, depending on the financial leverage ratio we maintain. Interest rates on swing loans will be based, at our election, on either the base rate or an alternate rate that may be quoted by the lead
lender. The annual facility fee related to the Credit Agreement is 0.15% and 0.30% of the revolving credit commitment, depending on the financial leverage ratio we maintain. In connection with entering into the Credit Agreement, we incurred
approximately $2.0 million of debt acquisition costs that were capitalized and will be amortized on a pro rata basis over the term of the Credit Agreement.

The terms of the Credit Agreement include various financial covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios. We were in compliance with these covenants as of
December 31, 2016. The Credit Agreement also includes customary provisions for transactions of this type, including events of default, with corresponding grace periods and

cross-defaults

to other
agreements evidencing our indebtedness.

At December 31, 2016, $21.1 million of letters of credit (for which we had
$12.3 million of liabilities recorded at December 31, 2016) were outstanding under the Credit Agreement. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the letters of credit. There were $278.0 million of
borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2016. Accordingly, at December 31, 2016, $500.9 million remained available for potential borrowings, of which $53.9 million was available for additional letters of
credit.

Premium Financing Debt Facility -

On May 18, 2015 we entered into a Syndicated Facility Agreement, revolving loan
facility, which we refer to as the Premium Financing Debt Facility, that provides funding for the three acquired Australian (AU) and New Zealand (NZ) premium finance subsidiaries. The Premium Financing Debt Facility is comprised of:
(i) Facility B is separate AU$150.0 million and NZ$35.0 million tranches, (ii) Facility C is an AU$25.0 million equivalent multi-currency overdraft tranche and (iii) Facility D is a NZ$15.0 million equivalent
multi-currency overdraft tranche. The Premium Financing Debt Facility expires May 18, 2017.

The interest rates on Facility B are
Interbank rates, which vary by tranche, duration and currency, plus a margin of 1.05%. The interest rates on Facilities C and D are 30 day Interbank rates, plus a margin of 0.55%. The annual fee for Facility B is 0.4725% of the undrawn
commitments for the two tranches of the facility. The annual fee for Facilities C and D is 0.50% of the total commitments of the facilities.

The terms of our Premium Financing Debt Facility include various financial covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios. We were in compliance with these
covenants as of December 31, 2016. The Premium Financing Debt Facility also includes customary provisions for transactions of this type, including events of default, with corresponding grace periods and cross-defaults to other agreements
evidencing our indebtedness. Facilities B, C and D are secured by the premium finance receivables of the Australian and New Zealand premium finance subsidiaries.

At December 31, 2016, AU$139.0 million and NZ$13.0 million of borrowings were outstanding under Facility B, AU$7.7 million of borrowings were outstanding under Facility C and
NZ$14.9 million of borrowings were outstanding under Facility D. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2016, AU$11.0 million and NZ$22.0 million remained available for potential borrowing under Facility B, and AU$17.3 million
and NZ$0.1 million under Facilities C and D, respectively.

See Note 15 to these consolidated financial statements for additional
discussion on our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2016.



The aggregate estimated fair value of the $2,450.0 million in debt under the note purchase agreements
at December 31, 2016 was $2,545.0 million due to the long-term duration and fixed interest rates associated with these debt obligations. No active or observable market exists for our private long-term debt. Therefore, the estimated fair
value of this debt is based on discounted future cash flows, which is a Level 3 fair value measurement, using current interest rates available for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities. The estimated fair value of this debt is based
on the income valuation approach, which is a valuation technique that converts future amounts (for example, cash flows or income and expenses) to a single current (that is, discounted) amount. The fair value measurement is determined on the basis of
the value indicated by current market expectations about those future amounts. Because our debt issuances generate a measurable income stream for each lender, the income approach was deemed to be an appropriate methodology for valuing the private
placement long-term debt. The methodology used calculated the original deal spread at the time of each debt issuance, which was equal to the difference between the yield of each issuance (the coupon rate) and the equivalent benchmark treasury yield
at that time. The market spread as of the valuation date was calculated, which is equal to the difference between an index for investment grade insurers and the equivalent benchmark treasury yield today. An implied premium or discount to the par
value of each debt issuance based on the difference between the origination deal spread and market as of the valuation date was then calculated. The index we relied on to represent investment graded insurers was the Bloomberg Valuation Services
(BVAL) U.S. Insurers BBB index. This index is comprised primarily of insurance brokerage firms and was representative of the industry in which we operate. For the purposes of our analysis, the average BBB rate was assumed to be the appropriate
borrowing rate for us based on our current estimated credit rating. The estimated fair value of the $278.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our Credit Agreement approximate their carrying value due to their short-term duration and
variable interest rates. The estimated fair value of the $125.6 million of borrowings outstanding under our Premium Financing Debt Facility approximates their carrying value due to their short-term duration and variable interest rates.

8.

Earnings per Share

The following table
sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net earnings per share (in millions, except per share data):

Options to purchase 5.9 million, 3.5 million and 1.6 million shares of our common stock were outstanding
at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, but were not included in the computation of the dilutive effect of stock options for the year then ended. These stock options were excluded from the computation because the options’
exercise prices were greater than the average market price of our common shares during the respective period and, therefore, would be anti-dilutive to earnings per share under the treasury stock method.

9.

Stock Option Plans

On May 13,
2014, our stockholders approved the Arthur J. Gallagher 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan (which we refer to as the LTIP), which replaced our previous stockholder-approved Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan (which we refer
to as the 2011 LTIP). The LTIP term began May 13, 2014 and terminates on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders in 2021, unless terminated earlier by our board of directors. All of our officers, employees and

non-employee

directors are eligible to receive awards under the LTIP. The compensation committee of our board of directors determines the participants under the LTIP. The LTIP provides for

non-qualified

and incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance units, any or all of which may be made contingent upon the achievement of performance
criteria. A stock appreciation right entitles the holder to receive, upon exercise and subject to withholding taxes, cash or shares of our common stock (which may be restricted stock) with a value equal to the difference between the fair market
value of our common stock on the exercise date and the base price of the stock appreciation right. Subject to the LTIP limits, the compensation committee has the discretionary authority to determine the size of an award.



Shares of our common stock available for issuance under the LTIP include authorized and unissued shares of
common stock or authorized and issued shares of common stock reacquired and held as treasury shares or otherwise, or a combination thereof. The number of available shares will be reduced by the aggregate number of shares that become subject to
outstanding awards granted under the LTIP. To the extent that shares subject to an outstanding award granted under either the LTIP or the 2011 LTIP are not issued or delivered by reason of the expiration, termination, cancellation or forfeiture of
such award or by reason of the settlement of such award in cash, then such shares will again be available for grant under the LTIP. Shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding requirements upon the vesting of awards other than stock options and stock
appreciation rights will also be available for grant under the LTIP. Shares that are subject to a stock appreciation right and were not issued upon the net settlement or net exercise of such stock appreciation right, shares that are used to pay the
exercise price of an option, delivered to or withheld by us to pay withholding taxes related to stock options or stock appreciation rights, and shares that are purchased on the open market with the proceeds of an option exercise, may not again be
made available for issuance.

The maximum number of shares available under the LTIP for restricted stock, restricted stock unit awards and
performance unit awards settled with stock (i.e., all awards other than stock options and stock appreciation rights) is 1.0 million as of December 31, 2016. To the extent necessary to be qualified performance-based compensation under
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (which we refer to as the IRC); (i) the maximum number of shares with respect to which options or stock appreciation rights or a combination thereof that may be granted during any fiscal year to any person
is 200,000; (ii) the maximum number of shares with respect to which performance-based restricted stock or restricted stock units that may be granted during any fiscal year to any person is 100,000; and (iii) the maximum amount that may be
payable with respect to cash-settled performance units granted during any fiscal year to any person is $5.0 million; and (iv) the maximum number of shares with respect to which stock-settled performance units may be granted during any
fiscal year to any person is 100,000.

The LTIP provides for the grant of stock options, which may be either

tax-qualified

incentive stock options or

non-qualified

options and stock appreciation rights. The compensation committee determines the period for the exercise of a

non-qualified

stock option,

tax-qualified

incentive stock option or stock appreciation right, provided that no option can be exercised later than seven years after its date of
grant. The exercise price of a

non-qualified

stock option or

tax-qualified

incentive stock option and the base price of a stock appreciation right cannot be less than
100% of the fair market value of a share of our common stock on the date of grant, provided that the base price of a stock appreciation right granted in tandem with an option will be the exercise price of the related option.

Upon exercise, the option exercise price may be paid in cash, by the delivery of previously owned shares of our common stock, through a

net-exercise

arrangement, or through a broker-assisted cashless exercise arrangement. The compensation committee determines all of the terms relating to the exercise, cancellation or other disposition of an option
or stock appreciation right upon a termination of employment, whether by reason of disability, retirement, death or any other reason. Stock option and stock appreciation right awards under the LTIP are

non-transferable.

On March 17, 2016, the compensation committee granted 2,576,000 options to our
officers and key employees that become exercisable at the rate of 34%, 33% and 33% on the anniversary date of the grant in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. On March 11, 2015, the compensation committee granted 1,941,000 options to our
officers and key employees that become exercisable at the rate of 34%, 33% and 33% on the anniversary date of the grant in 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively. On March 12, 2014, the compensation committee granted 1,923,000 options to our
officers and key employees that become exercisable at the rate of 34%, 33% and 33% on the anniversary date of the grant in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. The 2016, 2015 and 2014 options expire seven years from the date of grant, or earlier in
the event of termination of the employee. For certain of our executive officers age 55 or older, stock options awarded in 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013 are no longer subject to forfeiture upon such officers’ departure from the company after two
years from the date of grant.

Our stock option plans provide for the immediate vesting of all outstanding stock option grants in the event of
a change in control of our company, as defined in the applicable plan documents.

During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recognized
$14.7 million, $11.2 million and $9.5 million, respectively, of compensation expense related to our stock option grants.

For
purposes of expense recognition in 2016, 2015 and 2014, the estimated fair values of the stock option grants are amortized to expense over the options’ vesting period. We estimated the fair value of stock options at the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:



Option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock
price volatility. The Black-Scholes option pricing model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. Because our employee and director stock options have
characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the selective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management’s opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide
a reliable single measure of the fair value of our employee and

non-employee

director stock options. The weighted average fair value per option for all options granted during 2016, 2015 and 2014, as determined
on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, was $8.45, $9.25 and $9.66, respectively.

The following is a summary of our
stock option activity and related information for 2016, 2015 and 2014 (in millions, except exercise price and year data):

Options with respect to 4.4 million shares (less any shares of restricted stock issued under the LTIP—see
Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements) were available for grant under the LTIP at December 31, 2016.

The total intrinsic
value of options exercised during 2016, 2015 and 2014 amounted to $19.3 million, $27.0 million and $30.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2016, we had approximately $41.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to nonvested options. We expect to recognize that cost over a weighted average period of approximately four years.



Other information regarding stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2016 is
summarized as follows (in millions, except exercise price and year data):

10.

Deferred Compensation

We have a
Deferred Equity Participation Plan, (which we refer to as the DEPP), which is a

non-qualified

plan that generally provides for distributions to certain of our key executives when they reach age 62 (or the

one-year

anniversary of the date of the grant for participants over the age of 61 as of the grant date) or upon or after their actual retirement. Under the provisions of the DEPP, we typically contribute cash in an
amount approved by the compensation committee to a rabbi trust on behalf of the executives participating in the DEPP, and instruct the trustee to acquire a specified number of shares of our common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated
transactions based on participant elections. Distributions under the DEPP may not normally be made until the participant reaches age 62 (or the

one-year

anniversary of the date of the grant for
participants over the age of 61 as of the grant date) and are subject to forfeiture in the event of voluntary termination of employment prior to then. DEPP awards are generally made annually in the first quarter. In the second quarter of 2016, we
made awards under

sub-plans

of the DEPP for certain production staff, which generally provide for vesting and/or distributions no sooner than five years from the date of awards, although certain awards vest
and/or distribute after earlier of fifteen years or the participant reaching age 65. All contributions to the plan (including

sub-plans)

deemed to be invested in shares of our common stock are distributed in
the form of our common stock and all other distributions are paid in cash.

Our common stock that is purchased by the rabbi trust as a
contribution under DEPP is valued at historical cost, which equals its fair market value at the date of grant or date of purchase. When common stock is issued, we record an unearned deferred compensation obligation as a reduction of capital in
excess of par value in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet, which is amortized to compensation expense ratably over the vesting period of the participants. Future changes in the fair market value of our common stock owed to the participants
do not have any impact on the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements.

In the first quarter of each of 2016, 2015 and 2014,
the compensation committee approved $10.1 million, $8.9 million and $9.2 million, respectively, of awards in the aggregate to certain key executives under the DEPP that were contributed to the rabbi trust in the first quarters of
2016, 2015 and 2014. We contributed cash to the rabbi trust and instructed the trustee to acquire a specified number of shares of our common stock on the open market to fund these 2016, 2015 and 2014 awards. In the second quarter of 2013, we
instructed the trustee for the DEPP to liquidate all investments held under the DEPP, other than our common stock, and use the proceeds to purchase additional shares of our common stock on the open market. As a result, the DEPP sold all of the
funded cash award assets and purchased 1.2 million shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $52.4 million during the second quarter of 2013. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we charged $7.5 million, $7.2 million and
$7.4 million, respectively, to compensation expense related to these awards.

In 2016, the compensation committee approved
$13.6 million of awards under the

sub-plans

referred to above, which were contributed to the rabbi trust in second quarter 2016. During 2016, we charged $1.3 million to compensation expense related
to these awards. There were no distributions from the

sub-plans

during 2016.

At December 31,
2016 and 2015, we recorded $46.8 million (related to 2.4 million shares) and $33.5 million (related to 2.1 million shares), respectively, of unearned deferred compensation as an reduction of capital in excess of par value in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The total intrinsic value of our unvested equity based awards under the plan at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $125.5 million and $85.2 million, respectively. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, cash
and equity awards with an aggregate fair value of $7.6 million, $2.3 million and $18.8 million, respectively, were vested and distributed to employees under the DEPP.



We have a Deferred Cash Participation Plan (which we refer to as the DCPP), which is a

non-qualified

deferred compensation plan for certain key employees, other than executive officers, that generally provides for vesting and/or distributions no sooner than five years from the date of awards. Under
the provisions of the DCPP, we typically contribute cash in an amount approved by the compensation committee to the rabbi trust on behalf of the executives participating in the DCPP, and instruct the trustee to acquire a specified number of shares
of our common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions based on participant elections. In the first quarter of each of 2016 and 2015, the compensation committee approved $3.1 million and $2.7 million, respectively,
of awards in the aggregate to certain key executives under the DCPP that were contributed to the rabbi trust in first quarter 2016 and 2015, respectively. During 2016 and 2015 we charged $1.5 million and $1.1 million to compensation
expense related to these awards. There were no distributions from the DCPP during 2016 and 2015.

11.

Restricted Stock, Performance Share and Cash Awards

Restricted Stock Awards

As discussed in Note 9 to our consolidated financial
statements, on May 13, 2014, our stockholders approved the LTIP, which replaced our previous stockholder-approved 2011 LTIP. The LTIP provides for the grant of a stock award either as restricted stock or as restricted stock units. In either
case, the compensation committee may determine that the award will be subject to the attainment of performance measures over an established performance period. Stock awards and the related dividend equivalents are

non-transferable

and subject to forfeiture if the holder does not remain continuously employed with us during the applicable restriction period or, in the case of a performance-based award, if applicable
performance measures are not attained. The compensation committee will determine all of the terms relating to the satisfaction of performance measures and the termination of a restriction period, or the forfeiture and cancellation of a restricted
stock award upon a termination of employment, whether by reason of disability, retirement, death or any other reason. The compensation committee may grant unrestricted shares of common stock or units representing the right to receive shares of
common stock to employees who have attained age 62.

The agreements awarding restricted stock units under the LTIP will specify whether such
awards may be settled in shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of shares and cash and whether the holder will be entitled to receive dividend equivalents, on a current or deferred basis, with respect to such award. Prior to the
settlement of a restricted stock unit, the holder of a restricted stock unit will have no rights as a stockholder of the company. The maximum number of shares available under the LTIP for restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance unit
awards settled with stock (i.e., all awards other than stock options and stock appreciation rights) is 2.0 million. At December 31, 2016, 1.0 million shares were available for grant under the LTIP for such awards.

Prior to May 12, 2009, we had a restricted stock plan for our directors, officers and certain other employees, which was superseded by the 2009
LTIP. Under the provisions of that plan, we were authorized to issue 4.0 million restricted shares or related stock units of our common stock. The compensation committee was responsible for the administration of the plan. Each award granted
under the plan represented a right of the holder of the award to receive shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of shares and cash, subject to the holder’s continued employment with us for a period of time after the date the award is
granted. The compensation committee determined each recipient of an award under the plan, the number of shares of common stock subject to such award and the period of continued employment required for the vesting of such award.

In 2016, 2015 and 2014, we granted 479,167, 394,975 and 376,541 restricted stock units, respectively, to employees under the LTIP, with an aggregate fair
value of $20.4 million, $16.7 million and $16.0 million, respectively, at the date of grant.

The 2016, 2015 and 2014
restricted stock units vest as follows: 466,600 units granted in first quarter 2016, 362,600 units granted in first quarter 2015 and 323,550 units granted in first quarter 2014, vest in full based on continued employment through March 17, 2021,
March 11, 2020 and March 12, 2018, respectively, while the other 2016, 2015 and 2014 restricted stock unit awards generally vest in full based on continued employment through the vesting period on the anniversary date of the grant. In the
third quarter of 2014, we granted 33,741 restricted stock units to employees with an aggregate fair value of $1.5 million at the date of grant. These grants vest at the rate of 34%, 33% and 33% on the anniversary date of the grant in 2015, 2016
and 2017, respectively from the date of grant. For certain of our executive officers age 55 or older, restricted stock units awarded in 2016, 2015 and 2014 are no longer subject to forfeiture upon such officers’ departure from the company after
two years from the date of grant.

The vesting periods of the 2016, 2015 and 2014 restricted stock unit awards are as follows
(in actual shares):



We account for restricted stock unit awards at historical cost, which equals its fair market value at the
date of grant, which is amortized to compensation expense ratably over the vesting period of the participants. Future changes in the fair value of our common stock that is owed to the participants do not have any impact on the amounts recorded in
our consolidated financial statements. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we charged $18.2 million, $14.4 million and $12.7 million, respectively, to compensation expense related to restricted stock awards granted in 2007 through 2016. The
total intrinsic value of unvested restricted stock at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $80.0 million and $56.1 million, respectively. During 2016 and 2015, equity awards (including accrued dividends) with an aggregate fair value of
$14.2 million and $10.2 million were vested and distributed to employees under this plan.

Performance Share Awards

On March 17, 2016, March 11, 2015 and March 12, 2014, pursuant to the LTIP, the compensation committee approved 72,900,
53,900 and 48,850, respectively of provisional performance unit awards, with an aggregate fair value of $3.2 million, $2.5 million and $2.3 million, respectively, for future grants to our officers. Each performance unit award was
equivalent to the value of one share of our common stock on the date such provisional award was approved. These awards are subject to a

one-year

performance period based on our financial performance and a

two-year

vesting period. At the discretion of the compensation committee and determined based on our performance, the eligible officer will be granted a percentage of the provisional performance unit award that
equates to the EBITAC growth achieved (as specified in the applicable grant agreement). At the end of the performance period, eligible participants will be granted a number of units based on achievement of the performance goal and subject to
approval by the compensation committee. Granted units for the 2016, 2015 and 2014 provisional awards will fully vest based on continuous employment through March 17, 2019, March 11, 2018 and March 12, 2017, respectively, and will be
settled in shares of our common stock on a

one-for-one

basis as soon as practicable in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For certain of our executive officers age 55 or
older, awards granted in 2016 and 2015 are no longer subject to forfeiture upon such officers’ departure from the company after two years from the date of grant. If an eligible employee leaves us prior to the vesting date, the entire award will
be forfeited. During 2016, we charged $2.9 million to compensation expense related to performance share unit awards. The total intrinsic value of unvested restricted stock at December 31, 2016 was $8.9 million.

Cash Awards

On March 17, 2016,
pursuant to our Performance Unit Program (which we refer to as the Program), the compensation committee approved provisional cash awards of $17.4 million in the aggregate for future grants to our officers and key employees that are denominated
in units (397,000 units in the aggregate), each of which was equivalent to the value of one share of our common stock on the date the provisional award was approved. The Program consists of a

one-year

performance period based on our financial performance and a

two-year

vesting period. At the discretion of the compensation committee and determined based on our performance, the eligible officer or key
employee will be granted a percentage of the provisional cash award units that equates to the EBITAC growth achieved (as defined in the Program). At the end of the performance period, eligible participants will be granted a number of units based on
achievement of the performance goal and subject to approval by the compensation committee. Granted units for the 2016 provisional award will fully vest based on continuous employment through January 1, 2019. For certain of our executive
officers age 55 or older, awards granted under the Program in 2016 are no longer subject to forfeiture upon such officers’ departure from the company after two years from the date of the provisional award. The ultimate award value will be equal
to the trailing twelve-month stock price on December 31, 2018, multiplied by the number of units subject to the award, but limited to between 0.5 and 1.5 times the original value of the units determined as of the grant date. The fair value of
the awarded units will be paid out in cash as soon as practicable in 2019. If an eligible employee leaves us prior to the vesting date, the entire award will be forfeited. We did not recognize any compensation expense during 2016 related to the 2016
provisional award under the Program. Based on company performance for 2016, we expect to grant 385,000 units under the Program in first quarter 2017 that will fully vest on January 1, 2019.

On March 11, 2015, pursuant to the Program, the compensation committee approved the provisional cash awards of $14.6 million in the aggregate
for future grants to our officers and key employees that are denominated in units (315,000 units in the aggregate), each of which was equivalent to the value of one share of our common stock on the date the provisional awards were approved. Terms of
the 2015 provisional award were similar to the terms of the 2016 provisional awards. Based on our performance for 2015, we granted 294,000 units under the Program in first quarter 2016 that will fully vest on January 1, 2018. During 2016, we
charged $6.6 million to compensation expense related to these awards. We did not recognize any compensation expense during 2015 related to the 2015 awards.

On March 12, 2014, pursuant to the Program, the compensation committee approved the provisional cash awards of $10.8 million in the aggregate for future grants to our officers and key employees
that are denominated in units (229,000 units in the aggregate), each of which was equivalent to the value of one share of our common stock on the date the provisional awards were approved. Terms of the 2014 provisional award were similar to the
terms of the 2015 provisional awards. Based on our performance for 2014, we granted 220,000 units under the Program in first quarter 2015 that will fully vest on January 1, 2017. During 2016 and 2015, we charged $4.5 million and
$4.9 million to compensation expense related to these awards. We did not recognize any compensation expense during 2014 related to the 2014 awards.



On March 13, 2013, pursuant to the Program, the compensation committee approved the provisional cash
awards of $10.5 million in the aggregate for future grants to our officers and key employees that are denominated in units (269,000 units in the aggregate), each of which was equivalent to the value of one share of our common stock on the date
the provisional awards were approved. Terms of the 2013 provisional award were similar to the terms of the 2015 provisional awards. Based on our performance for 2013, we granted 263,000 units under the Program in the first quarter of 2014 that will
fully vest on January 1, 2016. During 2015 and 2014, we charged $5.3 million and $5.9 million, respectively, to compensation expense related to the 2013 awards. We did not recognize any compensation expense during 2016 related to the
2013 awards. During 2016, cash awards related to the 2013 provisional awards with an aggregate fair value of $11.2 million (246,000 units in the aggregate) were vested and distributed to employees under the Program.

During 2015, cash awards related to the 2012 provisional awards with an aggregate fair value of $15.8 million (342,000 units in the aggregate) were
vested and distributed to employees under the Program. During 2014, cash awards related to the 2011 provisional awards with an aggregate fair value of $17.6 million (411,000 units in the aggregate) were vested and distributed to employees under
the Program.

12.

Retirement Plans

We have a
noncontributory defined benefit pension plan that, prior to July 1, 2005, covered substantially all of our domestic employees who had attained a specified age and one year of employment. Benefits under the plan were based on years of service
and salary history. In 2005, we amended our defined benefit pension plan to freeze the accrual of future benefits for all U.S. employees, effective on July 1, 2005. Since the plan is frozen, there is no difference between the projected benefit
obligation and accumulated benefit obligation at December 31, 2016 and 2015. In the table below, the service cost component represents plan administration costs that are incurred directly by the plan. A reconciliation of the beginning and
ending balances of the pension benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets and the funded status of the plan is as follows (in millions):



The components of the net periodic pension benefit cost for the plan and other changes in plan assets and
obligations recognized in earnings and other comprehensive earnings consist of the following (in millions):

The following weighted average assumptions were used at December 31 in determining the plan’s pension benefit
obligation:

The following weighted average assumptions were used at January 1 in determining the plan’s net periodic
pension benefit cost:

The following benefit payments are expected to be paid by the plan (in millions):

The following is a summary of the plan’s weighted average asset allocations at December 31 by asset category:



Plan assets are invested in various pooled separate accounts under annuity contracts managed by two life
insurance carriers. The plan’s investment policy provides that investments will be allocated in a manner designed to provide a long-term investment return greater than the actuarial assumptions, maximize investment return commensurate with risk
and to comply with the Employee Income Retirement Security Act of 1974, as amended (which we refer to as ERISA), by investing the funds in a manner consistent with ERISA’s fiduciary standards. The weighted average expected long-term rate of
return on plan assets assumption was determined based on a review of the asset allocation strategy of the plan using expected

ten-year

return assumptions for all of the asset classes in which the plan was
invested at December 31, 2016 and 2015. The

ten-year

return assumptions used in the valuation were based on data provided by the plan’s external investment advisors.

The following is a summary of the plan’s assets carried at fair value as of December 31 by level within the fair value hierarchy
(in millions):

The plan’s Level 2 assets consist of ownership interests in various pooled separate accounts within a life
insurance carrier’s group annuity contract. The fair value of the pooled separate accounts is determined based on the net asset value of the respective funds, which is obtained from the carrier and determined each business day with issuances
and redemptions of units of the funds made based on the net asset value per unit as determined on the valuation date. We have not adjusted the net asset values provided by the carrier. There are no restrictions as to the plan’s ability to
redeem its investment at the net asset value of the respective funds as of the reporting date. The plan’s Level 3 assets consist of pooled separate accounts within another life insurance carrier’s annuity contracts for which fair
value has been determined by an independent valuation. Due to the nature of these annuity contracts, our management makes assumptions to determine how a market participant would price these Level 3 assets. In determining fair value, the future
cash flows to be generated by the annuity contracts were estimated using the underlying benefit provisions specified in each contract, market participant assumptions and various actuarial and financial models. These cash flows were then discounted
to present value using a risk-adjusted rate that takes into consideration market based rates of return and probability-weighted present values.

The following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for the Level 3 assets of the plan measured at fair value (in millions):

We were not required under the Internal Revenue Code (which we refer to as IRC) to make any minimum contributions to the
plan for each of the 2016, 2015 and 2014 plan years. This level of required funding is based on the plan being frozen and the aggregate amount of our historical funding. During 2016, 2015 and 2014 we did not make discretionary contributions to the
plan.

In August 2014, we decided to pursue a pension

de-risking

strategy to reduce the size of our
long-term U.S. defined benefit pension plan obligations and the volatility of these obligations on our balance sheet. On September 12, 2014, the fiduciaries of the plan began offering certain former employees who were participants in the plan,
the option of receiving the value of their pension benefit in a lump sum payment or as an accelerated reduced annuity, in lieu of monthly annuity payments when they retire. The voluntary offer was made to approximately 2,500 terminated, vested
participants in the plan whose employment terminated with the company prior to August 1, 2014 and who had not commenced benefit payments as of November 1, 2014. Eligible participants had from September 12, 2014 to November 30,
2014 to accept the offer, and the

lump-sum

payments were made in November and December of 2014, and the accelerated reduced annuity payments began as of December 1, 2014. The aggregate lump sum payout
made in fourth quarter 2014 was $43.3 million. All payouts related to this offer were made using assets from the plan. This lump sum payout project reduced the Plan’s pension benefit obligation by approximately $60.0 million, while
improving its pension underfunding by almost $17.0 million as of December 31, 2014. We recorded a

non-cash

pretax settlement charge of $12.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 based on the
number of participants accepting the lump sum payment option, the actual return on plan assets and various actuarial assumptions, including discount rate, long-term rate of return on assets, retirement age and mortality at the remeasurement date.



We also have a qualified contributory savings and thrift (401(k)) plan covering the majority of our domestic
employees. For eligible employees who have met the plan’s age and service requirements to receive matching contributions, we match 100% of

pre-tax

and Roth elective deferrals up to a maximum of 5.0% of
eligible compensation, subject to Federal limits on plan contributions and not in excess of the maximum amount deductible for Federal income tax purposes. Effective January 1, 2014, employees must be employed and eligible for the plan on the
last day of the plan year to receive a matching contribution, subject to certain exceptions enumerated in the plan document. Matching contributions are subject to a five-year graduated vesting schedule. We expensed $48.7 million,
$42.5 million and $38.0 million related to the plan in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

We also have a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan, the Supplemental Savings and Thrift Plan, for certain employees who, due to Internal Revenue Service (which we refer to as the IRS) rules, cannot take full advantage of our matching contributions under the 401(k) plan. The plan
permits these employees to annually elect to defer a portion of their compensation until their retirement or a future date. Our matching contributions to this plan (up to a maximum of the lesser of a participant’s elective deferral of base
salary, annual bonus and commissions or 5.0% of eligible compensation, less matching amounts contributed under the 401(k) plan) are also at the discretion of our board of directors. We contributed $5.6 million, $4.7 million and
$3.7 million to a rabbi trust maintained under the plan in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The fair value of the assets in the plan’s rabbi trust at December 31, 2016 and 2015, including employee contributions and investment
earnings, was $263.3 million and $201.2 million, respectively, and has been included in other noncurrent assets and the corresponding liability has been included in other noncurrent liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet.

We also have several foreign benefit plans, the largest of which is a defined contribution plan that provides for us to make
contributions of 5.0% of eligible compensation. In addition, the plan allows for voluntary contributions by U.K. employees, which we match 100%, up to a maximum of an additional 5.0% of eligible compensation. Net expense for foreign retirement plans
amounted to $30.6 million, $31.7 million and $29.7 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

In 1992, we amended our
health benefits plan to eliminate retiree coverage, except for retirees and those employees who had already attained a specified age and length of service at the time of the amendment. The retiree health plan is contributory, with contributions
adjusted annually, and is funded on a

pay-as-you-go

basis. The postretirement benefit obligation and the unfunded status of the
plan as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 were $2.7 million and $2.7 million, respectively. The net periodic postretirement benefit (income) cost of the plan amounted to ($0.3 million), ($0.3 million) and ($0.5 million) in
2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

13.

Investments

The following is a summary
of our investments and the related funding commitments (in millions):

Chem-Mod

LLC -

At December 31, 2016, we held a 46.5% controlling
interest in

Chem-Mod.

Chem-Mod

possesses the exclusive marketing rights, in the U.S. and Canada, for technologies used to reduce emissions created during the combustion
of coal. The refined coal production plants discussed below, as well as those owned by other unrelated parties, license and use

Chem-Mod’s

proprietary technologies, The

Chem-Mod™

Solution, in the production of refined coal. The

Chem-Mod™

Solution uses a dual injection sorbent system to reduce mercury, sulfur dioxide and other
emissions at coal-fired power plants.



We believe that the application of The

Chem-Mod™

Solution
qualifies for refined coal tax credits under IRC Section 45 when used with refined coal production plants placed in service by December 31, 2011 or 2009.

Chem-Mod

has been marketing its technologies
principally to coal-fired power plants owned by utility companies, including those utilities that are operating with the IRC Section 45 refined coal production plants in which we hold an investment.

Chem-Mod

is determined to be a variable interest entity (which we refer to as a VIE). We are the manager
(decision maker) of

Chem-Mod

and therefore consolidate its operations into our consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2016, total assets and total liabilities of this VIE included in our
consolidated balance sheet were $11.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively. At December 31, 2015, total assets and total liabilities of this VIE were $10.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively. For 2016, total revenues
and expenses were $63.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively. For 2015, total revenues and expenses were $72.1 million and $3.0 million, respectively. We are under no obligation to fund

Chem-Mod’s

operations in the future.

Chem-Mod

International LLC -

At December 31, 2016, we held a 31.5%

non-controlling

ownership interest in

Chem-Mod

International.

Chem-Mod

International has the rights to market The

Chem-Mod™

Solution in countries other than the U.S. and Canada. Such marketing activity has been limited to
date.

C-Quest

Technology LLC and

C-Quest

Technologies
International LLC (together,

C-Quest)

-

At December 31, 2016, we held a

non-controlling

12% interest in

C-Quest’s

global entities.

C-Quest

possesses rights, information and technology for the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions created by burning fossil fuels. Thus far,

C-Quest’s

operations have been limited to laboratory testing.

C-Quest

is determined to be a VIE, but we do not consolidate this investment into our consolidated
financial statements because we are not the primary beneficiary or decision maker. We have an option to acquire an additional 15% interest in

C-Quest’s

global entities for $7.5 million at any time on
or prior to August 1, 2017.

Clean Coal Investments -

•

We have investments in limited liability companies that own 34 refined coal production plants which produce refined coal using proprietary technologies
owned by

Chem-Mod.

We believe the production and sale of refined coal at these plants is qualified to receive refined coal tax credits under IRC Section 45. The fourteen plants placed in service prior to
December 31, 2009 (which we refer to as the 2009 Era Plants) are eligible to receive tax credits through 2019 and the twenty plants placed in service prior to December 31, 2011 (which we refer to as the 2011 Era Plants) are eligible to
receive tax credits through 2021.

•

As of December 31, 2016:

•

Thirty-one

of the plants has long-term production contracts.

•

The remaining three plants are in early stages of seeking and negotiating long-term production contracts.

•

We have a

non-controlling

interest in one plant, which is owned by a limited liability company (which we refer
to as a LLC). We have determined that this LLC is a VIE, for which we are not the primary beneficiary. At December 31, 2016, total assets and total liabilities of this VIE were $15.7 million and $13.4 million, respectively. For 2016,
total revenues and expenses of this VIE were $57.4 million and $71.1 million, respectively.

•

We and our

co-investors

each fund our portion of the

on-going

operations of the limited liability companies in proportion to our investment ownership percentages. Other than our portion of the

on-going

operational funding, there are no additional amounts that we are
committed to related to funding these investments.

Other Investments -

At December 31, 2016, we owned a

non-controlling,

minority interest in four venture capital funds totaling $3.7 million, twelve certified

low-income

housing developments with zero carrying value and two
real estate entities with zero carrying value. The

low-income

housing developments and real estate entities have been determined to be VIEs, but are not required to be consolidated due to our lack of control
over their respective operations. At December 31, 2016, total assets and total liabilities of these VIEs were approximately $60.0 million and $20.0 million, respectively.



14.

Derivatives and Hedging Activity

We are
exposed to market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. To manage the risk related to these exposures, we enter into various derivative instruments that reduce these risks by creating offsetting exposures.
We generally do not enter into derivative transactions for trading or speculative purposes.

Foreign Exchange Risk Management

We are exposed to foreign exchange risk when it earns revenues, pays expenses, or enters into monetary intercompany transfers denominated
in a currency that differs from its functional currency, or other transactions that are denominated in a currency other than its functional currency. We use foreign exchange derivatives, typically forward contracts and options, to reduce its overall
exposure to the effects of currency fluctuations on cash flows. These exposures are hedged, on average, for less than two years.

Interest
Rate Risk Management

We enter into various long term debt agreements. We use interest rate derivatives, typically swaps, to reduce its
exposure to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on the forecasted interest rates for up to two years into the future.

We has not
received or pledged any collateral related to derivative arrangements at December 31, 2016.

The notional and fair values of derivative
instruments are as follows at December 31, 2016 and 2015 (in millions):

(1)

Included within other current assets $12.5 million and zero at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively and other

non-current

assets $1.0 million and zero at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

(2)

Included within other current liabilities $11.8 million and $1.7 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively and other

non-current

liabilities $5.7 million and zero at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

(3)

Included within foreign exchange contracts at December 31, 2016 were $78.3 million of call options offset with $78.3 million of put options and
$61.6 million of buy forwards offset with $57.5 million of sell forwards. Included within foreign exchange contracts at December 31, 2015 were $137.6 million of buy forwards, partially offset by $43.9 million of sell
forwards.

The amounts of derivative gains (losses) recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss were as follows
(in millions):



The amounts of derivative gains (losses) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income
(effective portion) were as follows (in millions):

We estimate that approximately $0.4 million of pretax losses currently included within accumulated other
comprehensive loss will be reclassified into earnings in the next twelve months. The amount of gain (loss) recognized in earnings on the ineffective portion of derivatives for 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $1.6 million, $0.7 million and zero,
respectively.

15.

Commitments, Contingencies and

Off-Balance

Sheet Arrangements

In connection with our investing and operating activities, we have entered into certain contractual obligations and commitments. See Notes 7 and 13
to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of these obligations and commitments. Our future minimum cash payments, including interest, associated with our contractual obligations pursuant to the note purchase agreements,
Credit Agreement, Premium Financing Debt Facility, operating leases and purchase commitments at December 31, 2016 were as follows (in millions):

The amounts presented in the table above may not necessarily reflect our actual future cash funding requirements, because
the actual timing of the future payments made may vary from the stated contractual obligation. Outstanding purchase commitments in the table above include $10.6 million related to expenditures on our new corporate headquarters building.

Note Purchase Agreements, Credit Agreement and Premium Financing Debt Facility -

See Note 7 to our consolidated financial
statements for a discussion of the terms of the note purchase agreements, the Credit Agreement and Premium Debt Facility.

Operating Lease
Obligations -

Our corporate segment’s executive offices and certain subsidiary and branch facilities of our brokerage and risk management segments are located at Two Pierce Place, Itasca, Illinois, where we lease approximately 306,000
square feet of space, or approximately 60% of the building. The lease commitment on this property expires February 28, 2018. In August 2015, we announced that we will be relocating our headquarters to the city of Rolling Meadows, Illinois,
which will have approximately 360,000 square feet of space and will accommodate 2,000 employees at peak capacity. We anticipate



moving to the Rolling Meadows site sometime in the first quarter of 2017. Relating to the development of our new corporate headquarters, we expect to receive property tax related credits under a

tax-increment

financing note from Rolling Meadows and an Illinois state Economic Development for a Growing Economy (which we refer to as Edge) tax credit. Incentives from these two programs could total between
$60.0 million and $80.0 million over a fifteen-year period.

We generally operate in leased premises at our other locations. Certain
of these leases have options permitting renewals for additional periods. In addition to minimum fixed rentals, a number of leases contain annual escalation clauses which are generally related to increases in an inflation index.

Total rent expense, including rent relating to cancelable leases and leases with initial terms of less than one year, amounted to $134.2 million in
2016, $121.6 million in 2015 and $122.0 million in 2014.

We have leased certain office space to several

non-affiliated

tenants under operating sublease arrangements. In the normal course of business, we expect that certain of these leases will not be renewed or replaced. We adjust charges for real estate taxes and
common area maintenance annually based on actual expenses, and we recognize the related revenues in the year in which the expenses are incurred. These amounts are not included in the minimum future rentals to be received in the contractual
obligations table above.

Outstanding Purchase Obligations -

We typically do not have a material amount of outstanding purchase
obligations at any point in time. The amount disclosed in the contractual obligations table above represents the aggregate amount of unrecorded purchase obligations that we had outstanding at December 31, 2016. These obligations represent
agreements to purchase goods or services that were executed in the normal course of business.

Off-Balance

Sheet Commitments

-

Our total unrecorded commitments associated with outstanding
letters of credit, financial guarantees and funding commitments at December 31, 2016 were as follows (in millions):

Since commitments may expire unused, the amounts presented in the table above do not necessarily reflect our actual
future cash funding requirements. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our funding commitments related to our corporate segment and the

Off-Balance

Sheet Debt section
below for a discussion of other letters of credit. All of the letters of credit represent multiple year commitments that have annual, automatic renewing provisions and are classified by the latest commitment date.

Since January 1, 2002, we have acquired 420 companies, all of which were accounted for using the acquisition method for recording business
combinations. Substantially all of the purchase agreements related to these acquisitions contain provisions for potential earnout obligations. For all of our acquisitions made in the period from 2013 to 2016 that contain potential earnout
obligations, such obligations are measured at fair value as of the acquisition date and are included on that basis in the recorded purchase price consideration for the respective acquisition. The amounts recorded as earnout payables are primarily
based upon estimated future potential operating results of the acquired entities over a

two-

to three-year period subsequent to the acquisition date. The aggregate amount of the maximum earnout obligations
related to these acquisitions was $527.2 million, of which $242.3 million was recorded in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 based on the estimated fair value of the expected future payments to be made.

Off-Balance

Sheet Debt

-

Our unconsolidated investment portfolio includes investments in
enterprises where our ownership interest is between 1% and 50%, in which management has determined that our level of influence and economic interest is not sufficient to require consolidation. As a result, these investments are accounted for under
the equity method. None of these unconsolidated investments had any outstanding debt at December 31, 2016 or 2015 that was recourse to us.

At December 31, 2016, we had posted two letters of credit totaling $9.3 million in the aggregate, related to our self-insurance deductibles,
for which we had a recorded liability of $12.3 million. We have an equity investment in a

rent-a-captive

facility, which we use as a placement facility for certain
of our insurance brokerage operations. At December 31, 2016, we had posted seven letters of credit totaling $6.3 million to allow certain of our captive operations to meet minimum statutory surplus requirements and for additional
collateral related to premium and claim funds held in a fiduciary capacity, one letter of credit totaling $5.0 million to support our potential obligation under a client’s insurance program and one letter of credit totaling
$0.5 million as a security deposit for a 2015 acquisition’s lease. These letters of credit have never been drawn upon.



Our commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit, financial guarantees and funding commitments
at December 31, 2016 were as follows (all dollar amounts in table are in millions):

(1)

The guarantees are collateralized by shares in minority holdings of our Canadian operating companies.

Since commitments may expire unused, the amounts presented in the table above do not necessarily reflect our actual future cash funding requirements.

Litigation, Regulatory and Taxation Matters -

We are a defendant in various legal actions incidental to the nature of our business
including but not limited to matters related to employment practices, alleged breaches of

non-compete

or other restrictive covenants, theft of trade secrets, breaches of fiduciary duties and related causes of
action. We are also periodically the subject of inquiries, investigations and reviews by regulatory and taxing authorities into various matters related to our business, including our operational, compliance and finance functions. Neither the
outcomes of these matters nor their effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations can be determined at this time.

In
July 2014, we were named in a lawsuit which asserts that we and other defendants are liable for infringement of a patent held by Nalco Company. The complaint sought a judgment of infringement, damages, costs and attorneys’ fees, and
injunctive relief. Along with the other defendants, we disputed the allegation of infringement and have defended this matter vigorously. We filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on behalf of all defendants, alleging no infringement of Nalco’s
intellectual property. This motion and similar motions attacking amended complaints filed by Nalco, were granted. On April 20, 2016, the court dismissed Nalco’s complaint and disallowed any further opportunity to amend or refile. Although
Nalco has appealed this ruling, we believe that the probability of a material loss is remote. However, litigation is inherently uncertain and it is not possible for us to predict the ultimate disposition of this proceeding.



Our micro-captive advisory services are the subject of an investigation by the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS). Additionally, the IRS has initiated audits for the 2012 tax year of over 100 of the micro-captive insurance companies organized and/or managed by us. Among other matters, the IRS is investigating whether we have been acting as a tax shelter
promoter in connection with these operations. While the IRS has not made any specific allegations relating to our operations, if the IRS were to successfully assert that the micro-captives organized and/or managed by us do not meet the requirements
of IRC Section 831(b), we could be held liable to pay monetary claims by the IRS and/or our micro-captive clients, and our future earnings from our micro-captive operations could be materially adversely affected, any of which events, could
negatively impact the overall captive business and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Due to the fact that the IRS has not made any allegation against us or completed all of its audits of our clients, we
are not able to reasonably estimate the amount of any potential loss in connection with this investigation.

Contingent Liabilities -

We purchase insurance to provide protection from errors and omissions (which we refer to as E&O) claims that may arise during the ordinary course of business. We currently retain the first $5.0 million of each and every E&O claim.
Our E&O insurance provides aggregate coverage for E&O losses up to $175.0 million in excess of our retained amounts. We have historically maintained self-insurance reserves for the portion of our E&O exposure that is not insured. We
periodically determine a range of possible reserve levels using actuarial techniques that rely heavily on projecting historical claim data into the future. Our E&O reserve in the December 31, 2016 consolidated balance sheet is above the
lower end of the most recently determined actuarial range by $1.7 million and below the upper end of the actuarial range by $7.6 million. We can make no assurances that the historical claim data used to project the current reserve levels
will be indicative of future claim activity. Thus, the E&O reserve level and corresponding actuarial range could change in the future as more information becomes known, which could materially impact the amounts reported and disclosed herein.

Tax-advantaged

Investments No Longer Held -

Between 1996 and 2007, we developed and then sold
portions of our ownership in various energy related investments, many of which qualified for tax credits under IRC Section 29. In connection with the sales to other investors, we provided various indemnifications. As of December 31, 2016,
the potential liability under these indemnifications has expired. We recorded tax benefits in connection with our ownership in these investments. At December 31, 2016, we had exposure on $109.0 million of previously earned tax credits. In
2004, 2007 and 2009, the IRS examined several of these investments and all examinations were closed without any changes being proposed by the IRS. However, any future adverse tax audits, administrative rulings or judicial decisions could disallow
any previously claimed tax credits. Because of the contingent nature of this exposure and our related assessment of its likelihood, no reserve has been recorded in our December 31, 2016 consolidated balance sheet related to this exposure.

16.

Insurance Operations

We have ownership
interests in several insurance and reinsurance companies based in the U.S., Bermuda, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Malta that primarily operate segregated account

“rent-a-captive”

facilities. These

“rent-a-captive”

facilities enable
our clients to receive the benefits of owning a captive insurance company without incurring certain disadvantages of ownership. Captive insurance companies, or

“rent-a-captive”

facilities, are created for clients to insure their risks and capture any underwriting profit and investment income, which would then be
available for use by the insureds, generally to reduce future costs of their insurance programs. In general, these companies are set up as protected cell companies that are comprised of separate cell business units (which we refer to as Captive
Cells) and the core regulated company (which we refer to as the Core Company). The Core Company is owned and operated by us and no insurance policies are assumed by the Core Company. All insurance is assumed or written within individual Captive
Cells. Only the activity of the supporting Core Company of the

rent-a-captive

facility is recorded in our consolidated financial statements, including cash and
stockholder’s equity of the legal entity and any expenses incurred to operate the

rent-a-captive

facility. Most Captive Cells reinsure individual lines of insurance
coverage from external insurance companies. In addition, some Captive Cells offer individual lines of insurance coverage from one of our insurance company subsidiaries. The different types of insurance coverage include special property, general
liability, products liability, medical professional liability, other liability and medical stop loss. The policies are generally claims-made. Insurance policies are written by an insurance company and the risk is assumed by each of the Captive
Cells. In general, we structure these operations to have no underwriting risk on a net written basis. In situations where we have assumed underwriting risk on a net written basis, we have managed that exposure by obtaining full collateral for the
underwriting risk we have assumed from our clients. We typically require pledged assets including cash and/or investment accounts or letters of credit to limit our risk.

We have a wholly owned insurance company subsidiary based in the U.S. that cedes all of its insurance risk to reinsurers or captives under facultative and quota share treaty reinsurance agreements. This
company was established in fourth quarter 2014 and began writing business in December 2014. These reinsurance arrangements diversify our business and minimize our exposure to losses or hazards of an unusual nature. The ceding of insurance does not
discharge us of our primary liability to the policyholder. In the event that all or any of the reinsuring companies are unable to meet their obligations, we would be liable for such defaulted amounts. Therefore, we are subject to credit risk with
respect to the obligations of our reinsurers or captives. In order to minimize our exposure to losses from reinsurer credit risk and insolvencies, we have managed that exposure by obtaining full collateral for which we typically require pledged
assets, including cash and/or investment accounts or letters of credit, to fully offset the risk.



Reconciliations of direct to net premiums, on a written and earned basis, for 2016, 2015 and 2014 related to
the wholly-owned insurance company subsidiary discussed above are as follows (in millions):

At December 31, 2016 and 2015, our insurance company subsidiary had reinsurance recoverables of $48.3 million
and $40.1 million, respectively, related to liabilities established for ceded unearned premium reserves and loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. These reinsurance recoverables relate to direct and assumed business that has been fully
ceded to our reinsurers or captives and have been included in premiums and fees receivables in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

17.

Income Taxes

We and our principal
domestic subsidiaries are included in a consolidated U.S. Federal income tax return. Our international subsidiaries file various income tax returns in their jurisdictions. The foreign earnings (losses) before income taxes were $5.6 million in
2016, $(52.1) million in 2015 and $3.4 million in 2014. Earnings before income taxes include the impact of intercompany interest expense between domestic and foreign legal entities. Foreign intercompany interest expense was
$110.7 million in 2016, $107.0 million in 2015 and $76.5 million in 2014. Domestic intercompany interest income was $110.7 million in 2016, $107.0 million in 2015 and $76.5 million in 2014. Significant components of
earnings before income taxes and the provision for income taxes are as follows (in millions):



A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes with the U.S. Federal statutory income tax rate is as
follows (in millions, except percentages):

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the total amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as
follows (in millions):

The total amount of net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate was
$10.0 million and $10.8 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We accrue interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in our provision for income taxes. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, we had accrued
interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits of $2.8 million and $1.1 million, respectively.

We file income tax
returns in the U.S. and in various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. We are routinely examined by tax authorities in these jurisdictions. At December 31, 2016, our corporate returns had been examined by the IRS through calendar year 2010.
The IRS is currently conducting various examinations of calendar years 2011 and 2012. In addition, a number of foreign, state, local and partnership examinations are currently ongoing. It is reasonably possible that our gross unrecognized tax
benefits may change within the next twelve months. However, we believe any changes in the recorded balance would not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.



Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):

At December 31, 2016 and 2015, $371.1 million and $352.1 million, respectively, have been included in
noncurrent liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Alternative minimum tax credits of $108.2 million have an indefinite life, general business tax credits of $368.8 million begin to expire, if not utilized, in 2033, and
state credits of $0.9 million expire, if not used, in 2021. We expect the historically favorable trend in earnings before income taxes to continue in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we expect to make full use of the net deferred tax
assets. Valuation allowances have been established for certain foreign intangible assets and various state net operating loss carryforwards that may not be utilized in the future.

We do not provide for U.S. Federal income taxes on the undistributed earnings ($243.0 million and $231.9 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively) of foreign subsidiaries which
are considered permanently invested outside of the U.S. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability on these undistributed earnings was $15.6 million and $10.4 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.



18.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Earnings

The

after-tax

components of our accumulated comprehensive earnings (loss) attributable to controlling interests
consist of the following:

The foreign currency translation in 2016, 2015 and 2014 primarily relates to the net impact of changes in the value of
the local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar for our operations in Australia, Canada, the Caribbean, India, New Zealand and the U.K. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, $5.3 million, $6.2 million and $14.3 million, respectively, of
expense related to the pension liability was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to compensation expense in the statement of earnings. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, $8.2 million of expense, $0.7 million of income and
$0.5 million of expense, respectively, related to the fair value of derivative investments was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to the statement of earnings. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, no amounts related to foreign
currency translation were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to the statement of earnings.

19.

Quarterly Operating Results (unaudited)

Quarterly operating results for 2016 and 2015 were as follows (in millions, except per share data):

20.

Segment Information

We have three
reportable operating segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate. The brokerage segment is primarily comprised of our retail and wholesale insurance brokerage operations. The brokerage segment generates revenues through commissions paid by
insurance underwriters and through fees charged to our clients. Our brokers, agents and administrators act as intermediaries between insurers and their customers and we do not assume net underwriting risks. The risk management segment provides
contract claim settlement and administration services for enterprises that choose to self-insure some or all of their property/casualty coverages and for insurance companies that choose to outsource some or all of their property/casualty claims
departments. These operations also provide claims management, loss control consulting and insurance property appraisal services. Revenues are principally generated on a negotiated

per-claim

or

per-service

fee basis. The corporate segment manages our clean energy and other investments. This segment also holds all of our corporate debt. Allocations of investment income and



certain expenses are based on reasonable assumptions and estimates primarily using revenue, headcount and other information. We allocate the provision for income taxes to the brokerage and risk
management segments using the local county statutory rates. Reported operating results by segment would change if different methods were applied.

Financial information relating to our segments for 2016, 2015 and 2014 is as follows (in millions):







Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statements

Board of Directors and Stockholders

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet
of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. (Gallagher) as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive earnings, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2016. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(2)(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of Gallagher’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. at December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Gallagher’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control –
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report, dated February 10, 2017, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst

& Young LLP

Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 10, 2017



Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in

Rules 13a-15(f)

under the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an assessment of
the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework).

In conducting our assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, we have excluded eleven of the

thirty-seven

entities acquired in 2016, which are included in our 2016 consolidated financial statements. Collectively, these acquired entities constituted approximately 0.3% of total assets as of December 31,
2016 and approximately 0.2% of total revenues and approximately 0.1% of net earnings for the year then ended.

Based on our assessment
under the framework in Internal Control – Integrated Framework

,

management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2016. In addition, the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report which is included herein.

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Itasca,
Illinois

February 10, 2017

/s/ J. Patrick Gallagher, Jr.

/s/ Douglas K. Howell

J. Patrick Gallagher, Jr.

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Douglas K. Howell

Chief
Financial Officer



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting

Board of Directors and Stockholders

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

We have audited Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.’s
(Gallagher) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013
framework) (the COSO criteria). Gallagher’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on Gallagher’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As indicated in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting, management’s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of eleven of the

thirty-seven

entities acquired in 2016, which are included in the 2016 consolidated financial statements of Gallagher. Collectively, these acquired entities constituted approximately 0.3% of total assets as of December 31, 2016 and approximately 0.2% of
total revenues and approximately 0.1% of net earnings for the year then ended. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of Gallagher also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of these acquired
entities.

In our opinion, Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. maintained in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on

the COSO criteria

.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive earnings,
stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. and our report dated February 10, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst

& Young LLP

Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 10, 2017



Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

There were no changes in or disagreements with our accountants on matters related to accounting and financial
disclosure.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.

Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

.

As of
December 31, 2016, our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule

13a-15(b)

of the Exchange Act. Based on that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31,
2016.

Design and Evaluation of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.

Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we included a report of management’s assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal controls as part of this annual report
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016. Our independent registered public accounting firm also attested to, and reported on, the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Management’s report and the independent
registered public accounting firm’s attestation report are included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” under the captions entitled “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.”

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.

There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2016, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information.

Not applicable.

Part III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

Our 2017 Proxy Statement will include the information required by this item under the headings “Board of Directors,” “Security Ownership by
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management - Section 16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” and “Corporate Governance,” which we incorporate herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

Our 2017 Proxy Statement
will include the information required by this item under the headings “Compensation Committee Report” and “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” which we incorporate herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.

Our 2017 Proxy Statement will include the information required by this item under the headings “Security Ownership by Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information,” which we incorporate herein by reference.



Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence.

Our 2017 Proxy Statement will include the information required by this item under the headings “Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions” and “Corporate Governance,” which we incorporate herein by reference.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services.

Our 2017 Proxy Statement will include the information required by this item under the heading “Ratification of Appointment of Independent Auditor - Principal Accountant Fees and Services,” which
we incorporate herein by reference.

Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.

The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

1.

Consolidated Financial Statements:

(a)

Consolidated Statement of Earnings for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016.

(b)

Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2016 and 2015.

(c)

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016.

(d)

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016.

(e)

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(f)

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statements.

(g)

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.

(h)

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.

2.

Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules required to be filed by Item 8 of this Form:

(a)

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not required, or because the required information is included in our consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits:

Included in this

Form 10-K.



Incorporated by reference into this

Form 10-K.





All other exhibits are omitted because they are not applicable, or not required, or because the required information is
included in our consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto. The registrant agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request a copy of any long-term debt instruments that have been omitted pursuant to Item
601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation

S-K.

*

Such exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this form pursuant to item 601 of Regulation

S-K.

Item 16.

Form 10-K

Summary.

Not applicable.



Signatures

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on the 10

th

day of February,
2017.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below on the 10

th

day of February, 2017 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the
capacities indicated.

*By:

/s/    W

ALTER

D. B

AY

Walter D. Bay, Attorney-in-Fact



Schedule II

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(1)

Net activity of bad debt write offs and recoveries and acquired businesses.

(2)

Additions to allowance related to acquired businesses.

(3)

Elimination of fully amortized expiration lists,

non-compete

agreements and trade names, intangible asset/amortization
reclassifications and disposal of acquired businesses.



Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Annual Report on

Form 10-K

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2016

Exhibit Index

The registrant agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request a copy of any long-term debt
instruments that have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation

S-K.

*

Such exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this form pursuant to item 601 of Regulation

S-K.

112