Item 1.Business



General



Rollins,
Inc. (the “Company”) was originally incorporated in 1948 under the laws of the state of Delaware as Rollins Broadcasting,
Inc.



The
Company is an international service company with headquarters located in Atlanta, Georgia, providing pest and termite control
services through its wholly-owned subsidiaries to both residential and commercial customers in North America and Australia with
international franchises in Central America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Asia, the Mediterranean, Europe, Africa, and Mexico.
Services are performed through a contract that specifies the pricing arrangement with the customer.



Orkin, LLC. (“Orkin”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company founded in 1901, is the world’s
largest pest and termite control company. It provides customized services from over 400 locations. Orkin either serves customers,
directly or franchises operations, in the United States, Canada, Central America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Asia, the Mediterranean,
Europe, Africa, and Mexico providing essential pest control services and protection against termite damage, rodents and insects
to homes and businesses, including hotels, food service establishments, food manufacturers, retailers and transportation companies.
Orkin operates under the Orkin®, and Orkin Canada®trademarks and the AcuridSMservice
mark. The Orkin®brand name makes Orkin the most recognized pest and termite company throughout the United States.
The Orkin Canada brand name provides similar brand recognition throughout Canada.



Orkin
Canada, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Orkin founded in 1952, was acquired by Orkin in 1999. Orkin Canada is Canada’s largest pest
control provider and a leader in the development of fast, effective and environmentally responsible pest control solutions.



Western
Pest Services (“Western”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company founded in 1928, was acquired by Rollins, Inc.
in 2004. Western is primarily a commercial pest control service company and its business complements most of the services Orkin
offers focusing on the northeastern United States.



The
Industrial Fumigant Company (“IFC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company founded in 1937, was acquired by Rollins,
Inc. in 2005. IFC is a leading provider of pest management and sanitation services and products to the food and commodity industries.



HomeTeam
Pest Defense (“HomeTeam”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company established in 1996, was acquired by Rollins,
Inc. in April 2008. At the time of the acquisition, HomeTeam, with its unique Taexx®tubes in the wall pest control
system, was recognized as a premier pest control business and ranked as the 4th largest company in the industry. HomeTeam services
home builders nationally.



Rollins
Australia (“Rollins Australia”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired Allpest WA (“Allpest”),
in February 2014. Allpest was established in 1959 and is headquartered in Perth, Australia. Allpest provides traditional commercial,
residential, and termite service as well as consulting services on border protection related to Australia’s biosecurity
program and provides specialized services to Australia’s mining and oil and gas sectors.



The
Company has several smaller wholly-owned subsidiaries that in total make up less than 5% of the Company’s total revenues.



The
Company has only one reportable segment, its pest and termite control business. Revenue, operating profit and identifiable assets
for this segment, which includes the United States, Canada, Australia, Central America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Asia,
the Mediterranean, Europe, Africa, and Mexico are included in Item 8 of this document, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data” on pages 26 and 27. The Company’s results of operations and its financial condition are not reliant upon any
single customer or a few customers or the Company’s foreign operations.



Common
Stock Repurchase Program



Unless
stated otherwise, all share and per share data are presented prior to the three-for-two stock split effective March 10, 2015.
At the July 2012 Board of Directors’ meeting, the Board authorized the purchase of 5.0 million shares of the Company’s
common stock. During the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company repurchased on the open market 1.0 million and 0.3
million shares at a weighted average price of $29.19 and $24.56, respectively. In total, there are 4.0 million additional shares
authorized to be repurchased under prior Board approval. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date.






Backlog



Backlog
services and orders are usually provided within the month following the month of order receipt, except in the area of prepaid
pest control and bait monitoring services, which are usually provided within twelve months of order receipt. The Company does
not have a material portion of its business that may be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the
election of a governmental entity.





(in thousands)December 31,201420132012Backlog$3,676$3,286$2,876



Orkin
Franchises



The
Company continues to expand its growth through Orkin’s franchise program. This program is primarily used in smaller markets
where it is currently not economically feasible to locate a conventional Orkin branch. Domestic franchisees are subject to a contractual
buyback provision at Orkin’s option with a pre-determined purchase price using a formula applied to revenues of the franchise.
International franchise agreements also contain an optional buyback provision; however, the franchisee has the prior right of
renewal of agreement. The Company through its wholly-owned Orkin subsidiary began its Orkin franchise program in the U.S. in 1994,
and established its first international franchise in 2000 and since has expanded to Central America, South America, the Caribbean,
the Middle East, Asia, the Mediterranean, Europe, Africa, and Mexico.



At December 31,Franchises201420132012United States Franchises555457International Franchises372622Total Franchises928079



Seasonality



The
business of the Company is affected by the seasonal nature of the Company’s pest and termite control services. The increase
in pest presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined
by the timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue of the Company’s pest and
termite control operations during such periods as evidenced by the following chart.



Total
    Net Revenues(in
    thousands)201420132012First
    Quarter$313,388$299,714$289,465Second
    Quarter369,357350,798334,872Third
    Quarter384,870362,155340,179Fourth
    Quarter343,951324,707306,393Years
    ended December 31,$1,411,566$1,337,374$1,270,909



Inventories



The
Company has relationships with a national pest control product distributor and other vendors for pest and termite control treatment
products. The Company maintains a sufficient level of chemicals, materials and other supplies to fulfill its immediate servicing
needs and to alleviate any potential short-term shortage in availability from its national network of suppliers.



Competition



The
Company believes that Rollins, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries Orkin, Orkin Canada, HomeTeam Pest Defense, Western Pest
Services, The Industrial Fumigant Company, Crane Pest Control, Waltham Services, TruTech, Permatreat, and Rollins Australia competes
favorably with competitors as the world’s largest pest and termite control company. The Company’s competitors include
Terminix, Ecolab and Rentokil.



The
principal methods of competition in the Company’s pest and termite control business are quality of service and guarantees,
including service quality, and product availability, terms of guarantees, reputation for safety, technical proficiency, and price.



Research
and Development



Expenditures
by the Company on research activities relating to the development of new products or services are not significant. Some of the
new and improved service methods and products are researched, developed and produced by unaffiliated universities and companies.
Also, a portion of these methods and products are produced to the specifications provided by the Company.






The
Company maintains a close relationship with several universities for research and validation of treatment procedures and material
selection.



The
Company conducts tests of new products with the specific manufacturers of such products.  The Company also works closely
with leading scientists, educators, industry consultants and suppliers to improve service protocols and materials.



Environmental
and Regulatory Considerations



The
Company’s pest control business is subject to various legislative and regulatory enactments that are designed to protect
the environment, public health and consumers. Compliance with these requirements has not had a material negative impact on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations or liquidity.



Federal
Insecticide Fungicide and Rodentcide Act (“FIFRA”)



This
federal law (as amended) grants to the states the responsibility to be the primary agent in enforcement and conditions under which
pest control companies operate. Each state must meet certain guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency in regulating the
following: licensing, record keeping, contracts, standards of application, training and registration of products. This allows
each state to institute certain features that set their regulatory programs in keeping with special interests of the citizens’
wishes in each state. The pest control industry is impacted by these federal and state regulations.



Food
Quality Protection Act of 1996 (“FQPA”)



The
FQPA governs the manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides and does not have a direct impact on how the Company conducts
its business.



Environmental
Remediation



The
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as Superfund, is the primary
Federal statute regulating the cleanup of inactive hazardous substance sites and imposing liability for cleanup on the responsible
parties. Responsibilities governed by this statute include the management of hazardous substances, reporting releases of hazardous
substances, and establishing the necessary contracts and agreements to conduct cleanup. Customarily, the parties involved will
work with the EPA and under the direction of the responsible state agency to agree and implement a plan for site remediation.
Consistent with the Company’s responsibilities under these regulations, the Company undertakes environmental assessments
and remediation of hazardous substances from time to time as the Company determines its responsibilities for these purposes. As
these situations arise, the Company accrues management’s best estimate of future costs for these activities. Based on management’s
current estimates of these costs, management does not believe these costs are material to the Company’s financial condition
or operating results.



Employees



The
number of persons employed by the Company as of January 31, 2015 was approximately 11,000.



December 31,201420132012Employees10,93610,64910,470




Available
Information



Our
Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, are
available free of charge on our web site atwww.rollins.comas soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically
filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.



