Item
1.           	Business

General

Rollins,
Inc. (the “Company”) was originally incorporated in 1948 under the laws of the state of Delaware as Rollins Broadcasting,
Inc.

The Company
is an international service company with headquarters located in Atlanta, Georgia, providing pest and termite control services
through its wholly-owned subsidiaries to both residential and commercial customers in North America, Australia, and Europe with
international franchises in Central America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Asia, the Mediterranean, Europe, Africa, Canada,
Australia, and Mexico. Services are performed through a contract that specifies the pricing arrangement with the customer.

Orkin,
LLC. (“Orkin”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company founded in 1901, is the world’s largest pest and termite
control company. It provides customized services from over 400 locations. Orkin either serves customers, directly or through franchise
operations, in the United States, Canada, Central America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Asia, the Mediterranean, Europe, Africa,
and Mexico providing essential pest control services and protection against termite damage, rodents and insects to homes and businesses,
including hotels, food service establishments, food manufacturers, retailers and transportation companies. Orkin operates under
the Orkin®, and Orkin Canada®trademarks and the AcuridSMservice mark. The Orkin®brand name makes Orkin the most recognized pest and termite company throughout the United States. The Orkin Canada brand
name provides similar brand recognition throughout Canada.



Orkin Canada,
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Orkin founded in 1952, was acquired by Orkin in 1999. Orkin Canada is Canada’s largest pest control
provider and a leader in the development of fast, effective and environmentally responsible pest control solutions.

Western
Pest Services (“Western”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company founded in 1928, was acquired by Rollins, Inc.
in 2004. Western is primarily a commercial pest control service company and its business complements most of the services Orkin
offers focusing on the northeastern United States.

The Industrial
Fumigant Company (“IFC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company founded in 1937, was acquired by Rollins, Inc.
in 2005. IFC is a leading provider of pest management and sanitation services and products to the food and commodity industries.



HomeTeam Pest
Defense (“HomeTeam”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company established in 1996, was acquired by Rollins, Inc.
in April 2008. At the time of the acquisition, HomeTeam, with its unique Taexx®tubes in the wall pest control
system, was recognized as a premier pest control business and ranked as the 4th largest company in the industry. HomeTeam services
home builders nationally.



Rollins Australia
(“Rollins Australia”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired Allpest WA (“Allpest”), in February
2014. Allpest was established in 1959 and is headquartered in Perth, Australia. Allpest provides traditional commercial, residential,
and termite service as well as consulting services on border protection related to Australia’s biosecurity program and provides
specialized services to Australia’s mining and oil and gas sectors.



Rollins Wildlife
Services, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired Critter Control on February 27, 2015. Critter Control was established
by 1983 and has operations in 40 states and 2 Canadian provinces.



Rollins UK was
formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company to acquire Safeguard Pest Control (“Safeguard”). Safeguard, which
was acquired in June 2016, is a pest control company established in the United Kingdom in 1991 with a history of providing superior
pest control, bird control, and specialist services to residential and commercial customers.



The Company
has several smaller wholly-owned subsidiaries that in total make up less than 5% of the Company’s total revenues.

The Company
has only one reportable segment, its pest and termite control business. Revenue, operating profit and identifiable assets for
this segment, which includes the United States, Canada, Australia, Central America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Asia, the
Mediterranean, Europe, Africa, and Mexico are included in Item 8 of this document, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data” on pages 25 and 26. The Company’s results of operations and its financial condition are not reliant upon any
single customer or a few customers or the Company’s foreign operations.

Common
Stock Repurchase Program

All share
and per share data presented have been adjusted to account for the three-for-two stock split effective March 10, 2015. At the
July 24, 2012 Board of Directors’ meeting, the Board authorized the purchase of 7.5 million shares of the Company’s
common stock. During the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company repurchased on the open market 0.8 million shares
and 19 thousand shares at a weighted average price of $27.19 and $22.42, respectively. In total, there are 5.1 million additional
shares authorized to be repurchased under prior Board approval. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date.








Backlog

Backlog
services and orders are usually provided within the month following the month of order receipt, except in the area of prepaid
pest control and bait monitoring services, which are usually provided within twelve months of order receipt. The Company does
not have a material portion of its business that may be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the
election of a governmental entity.



December
    31,201620152014Backlog$5,303$4,352$3,676

Franchising
Programs

Orkin
Franchises



The Company
continues to expand its growth through Orkin’s franchise program. This program is primarily used in smaller markets where
it is currently not economically feasible to locate a conventional Orkin branch. Domestic franchisees are subject to a contractual
buyback provision at Orkin’s option with a pre-determined purchase price using a formula applied to revenues of the franchise.
International franchise agreements also contain an optional buyback provision; however, the franchisee has the prior right of
renewal of agreement. The Company through its wholly-owned Orkin subsidiary began its Orkin franchise program in the U.S. in 1994,
and established its first international franchise in 2000 and since has expanded to Central America, South America, the Caribbean,
the Middle East, Asia, the Mediterranean, Europe, Africa, and Mexico.





At
    December 31,Orkin
    Franchises201620152014Domestic
    Franchises505155International
    Franchises704837Total
    Franchises1209992





Critter
Control Franchises



The Company
expands its animal control growth through Critter Control’s franchise program. The Company has purchased several Critter
Control locations from its franchise owners while renaming and converting several TruTech locations to Critter Control. The majority
of Critter Control’s locations are franchised. Critter Control had 94 franchises and 108 franchises in the United States
and Canada as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 respectively. The Company purchased Critter Control in 2015.





At December 31,Franchises20162015Critter
    Control Franchises94108





Murray
Pest Control Franchises



The Company
has Australian franchises through Rollins Australia’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Murray Pest Control. Murray Pest Control
had four franchises as of December 31, 2016. The Company purchased Murray Pest Control in 2016.





At
    December 31,Franchises2016Murray
    Pest Control Franchises4





Seasonality

The business
of the Company is affected by the seasonal nature of the Company’s pest and termite control services. The increase in pest
presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined
by the timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue of the Company’s pest and
termite control operations during such periods as evidenced by the following chart.



Total
    Net Revenues(in
    thousands)201620152014First Quarter$352,736$330,909$313,388Second Quarter411,133392,150369,357Third Quarter423,994399,746384,870Fourth
    Quarter385,614362,500343,951Years ended
    December 31,$1,573,477$1,485,305$1,411,566



Inventories

The Company
has relationships with a national pest control product distributor and other vendors for pest and termite control treatment products.
The Company maintains a sufficient level of chemicals, materials and other supplies to fulfill its immediate servicing needs and
to alleviate any potential short-term shortage in availability from its national network of suppliers.

Competition

The Company
believes that Rollins, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries Orkin, Orkin Canada, HomeTeam Pest Defense, Western Pest Services,
The Industrial Fumigant Company, Crane Pest Control, Waltham Services, Trutech, Permatreat, Rollins Australia, Critter Control
and Safeguard Pest Control compete favorably with competitors as the world’s largest pest and termite control company. The
Company’s competitors include Terminix, Ecolab and Rentokil.

The principal
methods of competition in the Company’s pest and termite control markets are quality of service, customer proximity and
guarantee terms, reputation for safety, technical proficiency, and price.

Research
and Development

Expenditures
by the Company on research activities relating to the development of new products or services are not significant. Some of the
new and improved service methods and products are researched, developed and produced by unaffiliated universities and companies.
Also, a portion of these methods and products are produced to the specifications provided by the Company.






The Company
maintains a close relationship with several universities for research and validation of treatment procedures and material selection.

The Company
conducts tests of new products with the specific manufacturers of such products.  The Company also works closely with leading
scientists, educators, industry consultants and suppliers to improve service protocols and materials.

Environmental
and Regulatory Considerations

The Company’s
pest control business is subject to various legislative and regulatory enactments that are designed to protect the environment,
public health and consumers. Compliance with these requirements has not had a material negative impact on the Company’s
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

Federal
Insecticide Fungicide and Rodentcide Act (“FIFRA”)

This
federal law (as amended) grants to the states the responsibility to be the primary agent in enforcement and conditions under which
pest control companies operate. Each state must meet certain guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency in regulating the
following: licensing, record keeping, contracts, standards of application, training and registration of products. This allows
each state to institute certain features that set their regulatory programs in keeping with special interests of the citizens’
wishes in each state. The pest control industry is impacted by these federal and state regulations.

Food
Quality Protection Act of 1996 (“FQPA”)

The FQPA
governs the manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides and does not have a direct impact on how the Company conducts
its business.

Environmental
Remediation

The Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as Superfund, is the primary Federal
statute regulating the cleanup of inactive hazardous substance sites and imposing liability for cleanup on the responsible parties.
Responsibilities governed by this statute include the management of hazardous substances, reporting releases of hazardous substances,
and establishing the necessary contracts and agreements to conduct cleanup. Customarily, the parties involved will work with the
EPA and under the direction of the responsible state agency to agree and implement a plan for site remediation. Consistent with
the Company’s responsibilities under these regulations, the Company undertakes environmental assessments and remediation
of hazardous substances from time to time as the Company determines its responsibilities for these purposes. As these situations
arise, the Company accrues management’s best estimate of future costs for these activities. Based on management’s
current estimates of these costs, management does not believe these costs are material to the Company’s financial condition
or operating results.

Employees

The number
of persons employed by the Company as of January 31, 2017 was approximately 12,000.



December
    31,201620152014Employees12,15311,26810,936



Available
Information

Our Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, are available
free of charge on our web site at www.rollins.com as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed
with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

