Item
1.        Business

General

Rollins,
Inc. (the “Company”) was originally incorporated in 1948 under the laws of the state of Delaware as Rollins Broadcasting,
Inc.

The
Company is an international service company with headquarters located in Atlanta, Georgia, providing pest and termite control
services through its wholly-owned subsidiaries to both residential and commercial customers in the
United States, Canada, Australia, Europe, and Asia with international franchises in Mexico, Canada, Central and South America, the
Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Australia. Our pest and termite control services are performed through
a contract that specifies the pricing arrangement with the customer.



For a
listing of the Company’s Subsidiaries, see Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the
Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K).

The Company
has only one reportable segment, its pest and termite control business. Revenue, operating profit and identifiable assets for
this segment, which includes the United States, Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East,
Asia, Africa, and Australia are included in Item 8 of this document, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”
on pages 27 and 28. The Company’s results of operations and its financial condition are not reliant upon any single customer
or a few customers or the Company’s foreign operations.

Three-for-Two
Stock Split

All share
and per share data presented have been adjusted to account for the three-for-two stock split effective December 10, 2018.

Common
Stock Repurchase Program

At the
July 24, 2012 Quarterly Board of Directors’ meeting, the Board authorized the purchase of 11.3 million shares of the Company’s
common stock. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company did not repurchase shares on the open market. In
total, there are 7.6 million additional shares authorized to be repurchased under prior Board approval. The repurchase program
does not have an expiration date.



Backlog

Backlog
services and orders are usually provided within the month following the month of order receipt, except in the area of prepaid
pest control and bait monitoring services, which are usually provided within twelve months of order receipt. The Company does
not have a material portion of its business that may be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the
election of a governmental entity.



December 31,201920182017Backlog$7,137$5,837$4,875




Franchising
Programs

Orkin
Franchises



The
Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Orkin Systems, LLC, began its Orkin franchise program in the U.S. in 1994, and
established its first international franchise in 2000. It has since expanded to Mexico, Central and South America, the
Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. The
Company continues to expand its growth through the franchise program of its Orkin brand. This program is primarily used in smaller
markets where it is currently not economically efficient to locate a company-owned Orkin branch. Domestic franchisees are
subject to a contractual buyback provision at Orkin’s option with a pre-determined purchase price using a formula
applied to revenues of the franchise; however, the franchisee has the prior right of renewal of the agreement. International
franchise agreements also contain an optional buyback provision, subject to the franchisee’s renewal option.

At December 31,Orkin franchises201920182017Domestic franchises504747International franchises978681Total Orkin franchises147133128

Critter
Control Franchises



The
Company expands its animal control growth through the franchise program of its Critter Control brand. The Company has
purchased several Critter Control locations from its franchise owners while renaming and converting several previous Trutech
locations to Critter Control. The majority of Critter Control’s locations are franchised. Critter Control has
franchises in the United States and had two in Canada as of December 31, 2017, one of which was repurchased in 2018 to bring
the international count to one at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

At December 31,Critter Control franchises201920182017Critter Control franchises848089

Orkin
Australia Franchises



The Company
has Australian franchises through Orkin Australia’s wholly-owned subsidiaries, Murray Pest Control and Scientific Pest Management.

At December 31,Australia franchises201920182017Total Australia franchises101011

Seasonality

The
business of the Company is affected by the seasonal nature of the Company’s pest and termite control services. The increase
in pest presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined
by the timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue of the Company’s pest and
termite control operations during such periods as evidenced by the following chart.

Total Net Revenues(in thousands)201920182017First quarter$429,069$408,742$375,247Second quarter523,957480,461433,555Third quarter556,466487,739450,442Fourth quarter505,985444,623414,713Years ended December 31,$2,015,477$1,821,565$1,673,957




Inventories

The Company
has relationships with a national pest control product distributor and other suppliers for pest and termite control treatment
products. The Company maintains a sufficient level of chemicals, materials and other supplies to fulfill its immediate servicing
needs and to alleviate any potential short-term shortage in availability from its national network of suppliers.



Competition

The Company
believes that Rollins, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries Orkin, Orkin Canada, HomeTeam Pest Defense, Clark Pest Control of
Stockton, Inc. (“Clark Pest Control”), Western Pest Services, The Industrial Fumigant Company, Crane Pest Control,
Waltham Services, Trutech, PermaTreat, Orkin Australia, Critter Control, Safeguard Pest Control, Northwest Pest Control, OPC Services,
and Aardwolf Pestkare competes favorably with competitors as the world’s largest pest and termite control company. The Company’s
major competitors include Terminix, Ecolab, Rentokil and Anticimex.

The principal
methods of competition in the Company’s pest and termite control markets are quality of service, customer proximity, guarantee
terms, reputation for safety, technical proficiency, and price.

Research
and Development

Expenditures
by the Company on research activities relating to the development of new products or services are not significant. Some of the
new and improved service methods and products are researched, developed and produced by unaffiliated universities and companies.
Also, a portion of these methods and products are produced to the specifications provided by the Company.

The Company
maintains a close relationship with several universities for research and validation of treatment procedures and material selection.

The Company
conducts tests of new products with the specific manufacturers of such products.  The Company also works closely with leading
scientists, educators, industry consultants and suppliers to improve service protocols and materials.

Environmental
and Regulatory Considerations

The Company’s
pest control business is subject to various legislative and regulatory enactments that are designed to protect the environment,
public health and consumers. Compliance with these requirements has not had a material negative impact on the Company’s
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

Federal
Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”)

This
federal law (as amended) grants to the states the responsibility to be the primary agent in enforcement and conditions under which
pest control companies operate. Each state must meet certain guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency in regulating the
following: licensing, record keeping, contracts, standards of application, training and registration of products. This allows
each state to institute certain features that set their regulatory programs in keeping with special interests of the citizens’
wishes in each state. The pest control industry is impacted by these federal and state regulations.

Food
Quality Protection Act of 1996 (“FQPA”)

The FQPA
governs the manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides and does not have a direct impact on how the Company conducts
its business.

Environmental
Remediation

The
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as Superfund, is the primary
Federal statute regulating the cleanup of inactive hazardous substance sites and imposing liability for cleanup on the responsible
parties. Responsibilities governed by this statute include the management of hazardous substances, reporting releases of hazardous
substances, and establishing the necessary contracts and agreements to conduct cleanup. Customarily, the parties involved will
work with the EPA and under the direction of the responsible state agency to agree and implement a plan for site remediation.
Consistent with the Company’s responsibilities under these regulations, the Company undertakes environmental assessments
and remediation of hazardous substances from time to time as the Company determines its responsibilities for these purposes. As
these situations arise, the Company accrues management’s best estimate of future costs for these activities. Based on management’s
current estimates of these costs, management does not believe these costs are material to the Company’s financial condition
or operating results.




Employees

The
number of persons employed by the Company as of January 31, 2020 was approximately 15,000.

December
    31,201920182017Employees14,95213,73413,126

Available
Information

Our Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, are available
free of charge on our website atwww.rollins.com, under the heading “Investor Relations – Filings and Reports
– SEC Filings,” as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to
the Securities and Exchange Commission.

