
10-K
FORM 10-K


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D. C.  20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
X        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
         15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
         For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993
                                      OR
         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
         OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
         For the transition period from ___ to___

Commission File No. 0-4689

PENTAIR, INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Minnesota                                  41-0907434
(State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer 
incorporation or organization)         Identification No.)

1500 County Road B2 West, Suite 400
Saint Paul, Minnesota 55113-3105

(Address of principal executive offices)         (Zip Code)

(612) 636-7920
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
      None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

1) Common Stock, Par Value $.16 2/3 per share
2) Rights                                                            
   (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   X   No 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.          X

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the Registrant on February 25, 1994 was $611
million.  For purposes of this calculation, all shares held by
officers and directors of the Registrant and by the trustees of
employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs) and pension plans
of the Registrant and subsidiaries were deemed to be shares
held by affiliates.

The number of shares outstanding of Registrant's only class
of common stock on February 25, 1994 was 18,172,891.




DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The following portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders
for the year ended December 31, 1993 and Proxy Statement
for the 1994 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated
by reference as the Item of this Form 10-K indicated.

PART OF FORM 10-K                               PORTION OF ANNUAL REPORT

Part I, Item 1.                                       Page 37:  Business
Business - Financial                                Segment Information,
information about segments                            Page 29:  Research
and about foreign operations                             and Development.
and research and development.


Part II, Item 5.  Market for                           Page 41:  Pentair
Registrant's Common Equity                             Stock Data, Price
and Related Stockholder                              Range and Dividends
Matters.                                                of Common Stock.

Part II, Item 6.  Selected                            Page 18:  Selected
Financial Data.                                          Financial Data.

Part II, Item 7.  Management's                             Pages 18-23: 
Discussion and Analysis of                                 Management's 
Financial Condition and                                   Discussion and
Results of Operations.                                         Analysis.


Part II, Item 8.  Financial                                 Pages 24-37:
Statements and                                   Consolidated Statement 
Supplementary Data.                                   of Income, Balance
                                                  Sheet and Statement of
                                                     Cash Flows, related
                                                    Notes, and Report of
                                                   Independent Auditors;
                                               Quarterly Financial Data.


                                              PORTION OF PROXY STATEMENT

Part III, Item 10.  Directors                       Pages 2-5:  Security
and Executive Officers of                                   Ownership of
the Registrant.                                           Management and
                                                   Beneficial Ownership:
                                                   Pages 5-7:  Directors
                                                  Standing for Election.

Part III, Item 11.  Executive                    Pages 10-18:  Executive
Compensation.                                              Compensation.

Part III, Item 12.  Security                        Pages 2-5:  Security
Ownership of Certain                                        Ownership of
Beneficial Owners and                                     Management and
and Management.                                               Beneficial
                                                              Ownership.




PART I

Item 1.  Business

(a)  General Development of the Business.

The Registrant was incorporated in 1966 under the laws of
Minnesota.  In the past year, the Registrant has not changed
its form of organization or mode of conducting business.  The
Registrant intends to continue to grow through internal
development and diversify through the acquisition of
established companies or manufacturing operations and
investments in owned subsidiaries and new joint ventures.  As
in the past, periodic dispositions of assets or business units
are possible when they no longer fit with the long-term
strategies of the Registrant.

The Registrant completed on February 28, 1994 the
acquisition of the net assets and the subsidiaries of Schroff
GmbH (Schroff) from Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp for a
cash purchase price of approximately $153 million.  Schroff
manufactures and sells enclosures, cases, subracks and
accessories for commercial electronic and instrumentation
applications, with world-wide 1993 sales of approximately $160
million.  While Schroff faces significant competition in each of
its markets, it is the largest manufacturer of electronic
enclosures and 19 inch subracks in the European market, in
which the majority of Schroff sales are made.  The Registrant
views Schroff as strongly complementary to the electrical
enclosure business of Hoffman Engineering and intends to
develop these businesses using their respective strengths in
technology, manufacturing, marketing and market position.


(b)  Financial Information about Industry Segments.

The Registrant's business is conducted in three industry
segments.  The Specialty Products segment manufactures
woodworking machinery; portable power tools; and pumps and
pumping systems.  The General Industrial Equipment segment
manufactures electrical and electronic enclosures and
wireways; industrial lubricating systems and material
dispensing equipment; automotive service equipment; and
sporting ammunition.  The Paper Products segment
manufactures printing papers in a variety of types and grades. 
Business segment financial information is found on page 37
(Note 17) of the 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders.


(c)  Narrative Description of Business.

                                                                             
Description of the Specialty Products Segment:

                                                                              
Products and marketing.

The following table sets forth, for each of the last three years,
the Specialty Products segment net sales by product class as
percentages of the Registrant's consolidated net sales.

Woodworking Machinery.  The Registrant, through its
subsidiary Delta International Machinery Corp. (Delta),
manufactures, markets, and services a line of general-purpose
woodworking machinery, such as saws, planers, joiners,
grinders, drill presses, shapers, lathes, and other quality
machines.  Delta sells its products in the United States,
Canada, and other foreign countries under its "Delta" brand
name through a network of independent stocking distributors,
independent retailers, mass merchandisers and home centers. 

Portable Electric Tools.  The Registrant, through its subsidiary
Porter-Cable Corporation (Porter-Cable), manufactures and
markets a variety of portable electric tools, such as saws,
sanders, drills and routers, used in woodworking, industrial
maintenance, and construction trades.  Porter-Cable markets
its products under the brand name "Porter-Cable" through
independent distributors, mass merchandisers and home
centers.

Pumps and Pumping Systems.  The Registrant, through its
F.E. Myers Co. Division of McNeil (Ohio) Corporation (Myers),
manufactures and markets a wide variety of pumps for
residential, environmental engineering, and industrial use. 
Products are marketed by field sales representatives employed
by Myers and are distributed through a network of distributors,
wholesalers, dealers, and installers.  In addition, Myers
distributes products to the do-it-yourself market for retail sale
through homecenter retailers and hardware stores under the
names "Water Ace" and "Shur Dri".


Competitive conditions.

Delta participates in the middle range of the overall market for
general purpose woodworking machinery.  The addressed
market is focused on high quality and feature oriented
products for the Home Shop, Contractor, and Small Shop
markets.  In general, Delta produces a full line of woodworking
machinery for its addressed market.  Delta's numerous
competitors do not offer a similar full product line over the
range of Delta's addressed market.  Competitors do have
individual products which compete with certain of Delta's
products.  Competition in this market focuses on quality,
features and service and at the lower end of Delta's product
offering, price.

Porter-Cable competes in the professional portable electric tool
market which is highly competitive.  Porter-Cable faces six
major competitors across its addressed market.  Product
innovation, features, quality, performance, delivery and service
are the most significant competitive factors.  Porter-Cable is
beginning to address the higher end of the do-it-yourself
market where price is a factor.

Myers' market is pumps and pumping systems.  Myers faces
several major competitors across its product lines.  Price,
delivery, and quality are significant competitive factors.
Myers is beginning to address the higher end of the do-it-
yourself market.



Description of the General Industrial Equipment Segment:

Products and marketing.

The following table sets forth, for each of the last three years,
the General Industrial Equipment segment net sales by
product class as percentages of consolidated net sales.

Electrical Enclosures and Wireways.  Through the Hoffman
Engineering Company division of Federal-Hoffman, Inc.
(Hoffman Engineering), the Registrant manufactures
enclosures and wireways for electrical and industrial
instrumentation applications and markets these products
primarily through independent manufacturer's representatives
and electrical and electronic equipment distributors throughout
North America and the United Kingdom.

Sporting Ammunition.  Through the Federal Cartridge
Company division of Federal-Hoffman, Inc. (Federal Cartridge),
the Registrant manufactures and markets sporting and law
enforcement ammunition, and components.  These products
are distributed throughout the United States through a network
of distributors and buying organizations for retail sale; directly
to large retail chains; and directly to law enforcement agencies
(governmental).

Industrial Lubricating Systems and Material Dispensing
Equipment.  The Registrant, through its Lincoln Industrial
division of McNeil (Ohio) Corporation (Lincoln Industrial),
manufactures components and designs systems for manual
and automatic delivery of measured quantities of lubricants for
industrial applications.  Lincoln Industrial also manufactures
components and designs, fabricates, and installs high-volume
liquid and semi-solid dispensing systems.  Both segments
serve original equipment and retrofit markets.  Lubricating and
materials dispensing systems are marketed in the United
States by approximately 100 specially qualified systems
distributors with design, installation, and service capability. 
Basic lubricating equipment and accessories are marketed
through industrial supply and specialty distributors.  A special
direct sales group markets a wide variety of Lincoln Industrial
products to original equipment manufacturers in a variety of
industries.  Lincoln Industrial also manufactures lubricating
components and systems at its facility in Walldorf, Germany for
distribution to European, Middle East, Far East and African
markets, and to a lesser extent to the United States.  The
remainder of the world market, including the Pacific Rim, is
served from Lincoln Industrial's St. Louis, Missouri
manufacturing facility.

Automotive Service Equipment.  The Registrant, through its
Lincoln Automotive division of  McNeil (Ohio) Corporation
(Lincoln Automotive), manufactures and markets lubrication,
repair, and service equipment for a broad range of vehicles. 
Most products are sold through a key group of approximately
600 aftermarket wholesalers.  Certain lubricating equipment,
tools, and jacks and lifting equipment are sold under private
label programs.  Garage, service station, car dealership
service department, and fast oil change lubricating systems
are marketed through petroleum equipment and service
distributors with design and installation capability.

Competitive conditions.

Hoffman Engineering is the largest North American
manufacturer of electrical enclosures and wireways, having a
market share estimated to be about 25%.  It is currently the
only manufacturer with national distribution and its competitors
are generally smaller, regional manufacturers.  Hoffman
Engineering also participates in the North American electronic
enclosures market, facing competition from a large number of
firms, with three or four established firms leading the market. 
In both markets, the most significant competitive factors are
product innovation, service, quality, breadth of product line,
and delivery.  Price is the most significant factor for certain
commodity products.

Federal Cartridge and its two primary competitors, Winchester
and Remington, have a combined market share of
approximately 90% in the U.S. sporting ammunition market,
with the balance coming from smaller domestic competitors
and foreign ammunition manufacturers.  Price, terms, delivery,
and quality are significant competitive factors.

Lincoln Industrial and Lincoln Automotive face three to five
major competitors and several smaller competitors across their
product lines.  Competition involving industrial lubricating
systems and material dispensing equipment tends to center
around quality, systems capability, and application knowledge. 
Price becomes a more significant competitive factor for vehicle
servicing equipment.


Description of the Paper Products Segment:

Products and marketing.

The  following  table sets forth, for each of the  last three 
years, the Registrant's  net  sales  ($ millions), percent of
consolidated net sales and tons shipped (thousands) for each
paper product class.

[FN]

FN1  Lake Superior Paper Industries is a joint venture mill in
Duluth, Minnesota; only 50% of the joint venture's sales and
tonnage are included.  Since this joint venture is accounted for
on the equity method, its sales are not included in
consolidated sales.

Coated Paper.  The Registrant, through its subsidiary Niagara
of Wisconsin Paper Corporation (Niagara), manufactures
coated groundwood publication-grade paper (nos. 4 and 5)
used for applications requiring high-resolution printing and
reproduction of color pictures, such as magazines, periodicals,
catalogs, and general commercial printing.  These papers are
coated and finished to either a gloss or suede surface.  Direct
sales to printers and end users represent approximately 20%
of shipments; remaining sales, which generally are in smaller
quantities, are made through paper merchants. 

Uncoated Papers.  Cross Pointe Paper Corporation (Cross
Pointe), a subsidiary of the Registrant, through its subsidiaries,
Miami Paper Corporation and Flambeau Paper Corp.,
manufactures a variety of uncoated papers and operates a
centralized converting and distribution operation (IDC) in West
Chicago, Illinois.  Of Cross Pointe's total paper production,
60% is commercial printing, 24% is text and cover, 12% is
book, and the remainder is premium writing, specialty and
other paper.  Most of the volume is sold through merchants. 
Currently, about 45% of total shipments are made from the
IDC.  Cross Pointe has adopted long-term strategies of
increased shipments of stocked, value-added grades,
enhanced product developments and continued increases in
quality.  As a part of this program, Cross Pointe has become
one of the leaders in recycled grades.

Supercalendered (SCA) Printing and Publication Grade
Papers.  The Registrant has a 50% interest in a joint venture,
Lake Superior Paper Industries (Lake Superior), which
produces supercalendered paper known as SCA.  End use
markets include magazine publication, catalogues and
advertising inserts.  SCA is sold directly to printers and end
users through Lake Superior's own sales and marketing
personnel.  

Competitive conditions.

The Paper Products segment output of Niagara and Cross
Pointe is sold in highly competitive markets with between 10
to 15 competitors in each.  Many of these competitors are
substantially larger corporations having greater financial
resources, production capacity and, in many cases, captive
sources of "kraft" pulp and merchant distribution.  Lake
Superior is the largest North American producer of SCA, but
is subject to substantial competition from European
manufacturers, and makers of other grades of printing and
publication paper.  Quality, innovation and service are
significant competitive factors in the markets served by the
Paper Products segment.  The Registrant has emphasized
service, quality, product innovation, and environmental
products to meet customer needs, and has developed long-
term relationships with many suppliers and customers.

Raw materials.

The raw materials used in the manufacture of paper are
bleached kraft pulps, pulp substitutes, pulpwood, groundwood
pulp, waste paper, certain chemicals, clays, starches, and
additives.  The Registrant does not own its own timberlands or
manufacture its own kraft pulp.

Kraft pulp, which comprises about 35% of the Registrant's fiber
needs (including the Registrant's share of Lake Superior), is
supplied by several pulp manufacturers, principally under long-
term contracts.  The balance of fiber needs, comprised
primarily of groundwood pulp, sulphite pulp and secondary
fiber (pulp recovered by recycling waste paper), is produced at
the various mills.  The Registrant has recently installed or
expanded its recycled fiber capacity at its Cross Pointe mills
and has invested in a joint venture recycled pulp facility in
Duluth, Minnesota.

The Registrant also purchases chemicals, clays, logs for pulp,
waste paper, and other paper-making components from
various sources.  Adequate supplies of these materials are
expected to be available to meet the Registrant's needs.

Backlog.

The following table shows backlog (in days) and approximate
sales value (at average selling price) at December 31:

A substantial portion of paper sales are produced to meet
specific customer orders.  Although the level of backlogs
provides some indication of the strength of the paper markets,
other factors such as the trend of retail sales and customer
and printer inventory levels must be considered.  The current
backlog, especially coated and uncoated, is less than desired. 
All backlogs are expected to be filled within the current year.


Information Regarding All Segments:

Working capital items.

The Specialty Products and General Industrial Equipment
businesses offer extended payment terms to a significant
number of customers, requiring these subsidiaries to carry a
significant amount of receivables. The Registrant has not
incurred significant losses in carrying these receivables. 
Federal Cartridge's working capital builds from January
through September as inventories are increased to meet third
quarter shipping schedules and receivables increase due to fall
dating for early order programs used in the sporting
ammunition business.  Management continues to focus on
reducing working capital requirements through management of
receivable and inventory levels.  

Status of new products.

The industries in which the segments participate are
essentially mature and do not experience the introduction of
many products that materially change the nature of the
industry.  Individual manufacturers generally make
improvements or apply new technologies to existing products. 

Raw materials.

The raw materials used in the manufacturing process include
grey iron (castings), copper, aluminum (diecast), steel (bar and
sheet), and plastic.  Federal Cartridge uses gunpowder,
primers, brass, lead and steel in its production of ammunition. 
Selected castings, subassemblies, and components are also
purchased.  The supply of all raw materials and components
is currently adequate.

Less than 5% of portable electric tool sales are produced by
outside sources in Western Europe and imported under the
Porter-Cable name.  The supply of these tools is currently
adequate.  Delta imports select tools in its product offering. 
Design and engineering of these products is performed by
Delta.  The manufacturing process is controlled and monitored
for most of these products in factories dedicated to Delta
production.  Supply of these products is currently adequate
and timely.

Patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises and concessions.

The businesses own a number of U.S. and foreign patents and
trademarks.  They were acquired over many years and relate
to many products and improvements which are of importance
to the business.  No one patent or trademark is of material
importance to the company as a whole.

Brand names are a significant factor in market perception. 
The Registrant has undertaken a corporate strategy to
strengthen and capitalize on brand awareness.


Seasonal aspects.

For the Registrant as a whole there is no strongly seasonal
aspect; however, sales of Federal Cartridge sporting
ammunition are generally higher in the third quarter due to
hunting season reorder demand.

Backlog.

The Specialty Products and General Industrial Equipment
segments normally do not experience backlogs for substantial
periods of time.  The nature of the businesses emphasizes
maintaining inventories sufficient to satisfy customer needs on
a timely basis, and production and sourcing is geared towards
providing adequate inventories in order to minimize customer
back orders.  Accordingly, backlogs are not material to
understanding the sales trends or manufacturing fluctuations
of the segment.

Dependence on limited number of customers.

None of the Registrant's segments is dependent on a single
customer or on a few customers.  The loss of a limited number
of customers would not have a material adverse impact on any
of the segments.  Since a portion of Specialty Products sales
are through large retail chains, a significant short-term impact
would be experienced if sales to these customers were
affected.

Government contracts.

The Registrant has no material portion of sales under
government contracts that may be subject to renegotiation of
profits or termination of contracts at the election of the
government.

Environmental matters.

The Registrant is subject to federal and state pollution control
and hazardous waste laws and regulations in all jurisdictions
in which it has operating facilities.  The Registrant believes that
its ongoing operations are in substantial compliance with
existing environmental regulations other than for infrequent
permit exceedances for air and water emissions at some of its
facilities.  In addition to making ongoing capital expenditures
for maintenance, upgrading and closure of on-site waste
treatment facilities, the Registrant intends to continue its
program for implementation of manufacturing process and
configuration changes to achieve both manufacturing
efficiencies and an overall reduction in environmental impact
of its operations.

The Registrant's environmental control programs focus upon
air treatment facilities: including removal of particulates
generated by boilers used in the Registrant's paper businesses
and of volatile organic compounds used in the industrial
manufacturing businesses; waste water treatment, primarily in
the paper businesses; and landfills for solid waste disposal,
including sludge lagoons operated by some of the paper
businesses.  The Registrant arranges for disposal of solid and
hazardous waste through licensed transporters at each of the
Registrant's facilities.

The Registrant's Niagara operation was notified by the
Michigan Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) by letter
dated March 7, 1994 that its sludge lagoons have been
operated in violation of various regulations and have caused
degradation of groundwater in the area.  Niagara believes that
implementation of its currently pending closure plan, submitted
in 1990, should satisfy many of the concerns raised by MDNR,
although it is likely that Niagara will have to accelerate the
closing.  No material adverse impact on Niagara's business is
anticipated but costs to close the lagoons in accordance with
the 1990 proposed plan would exceed $6 million.

The operating costs for maintaining compliance with
environmental regulations does not exceed 5% of operating
costs generally.  The Registrant has adopted capital
expenditure programs for upgrading, maintaining and other
costs related to its waste treatment facilities.  Such capital
expenditures were $7.6 million, $4.1 million, and $2.1 million
for the years ending December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991,
respectively.  Projected future expenditures are $1.7 million
and $3.2 million for fiscal years 1994 and 1995 respectively.

Over the past three years, the Registrant's paper businesses
have invested a total of $18.2 million in constructing,
upgrading and expanding their recycled fiber facilities.  This
program has reduced land disposal of office wastepaper while
giving the Paper Products segment businesses a strong
presence in rapidly growing recycled paper markets.

Employees.

As of December 31, 1993, the Registrant and its subsidiaries
employed approximately 8,300 persons, of which 2,470 were
represented by unions having collective bargaining
agreements.

Labor contracts negotiated in 1993 were:  International
Molders and Allied Workers - Ashland, Ohio (extended to April
1, 1994), 49 employees; Patternmakers-Ashland, Ohio
(extended to September 2, 1995), 7 employees;  United
Paperworkers - Niagara, Wisconsin (extended to January 31,
1995), 470 employees; and International Union of Electrical
Workers - Jonesboro, Arkansas (extended to April 4, 1996),
175 employees.

Contracts expiring in 1994: Clerical Workers - Niagara,
Wisconsin (expires May 14, 1994), 25 employees; International
Molders and Allied Workers - Ashland, Ohio (expires April 1,
1994), 49 employees; and Molders and Allied Workers -
Guelph, Ontario, Canada (expires July 1, 1994) 7 employees. 


The Registrant considers its employee relations to be good
and feels future contracts can be negotiated for the benefit of
the business and the employees.

(d)  Financial Information about Foreign Operations.

The Registrant operates primarily in the United States and
North America.  Operations outside of the United States in
1993 represented less than 10% of consolidated net sales,
operating income, and identifiable assets.  As a result of the
acquisition of the Schroff Group, the Registrant believes that
beginning in 1994, operations outside of the U.S. will represent
approximately 15% of consolidated net sales.



Item 2.  Properties

The Registrant's corporate offices, located at 1500 County
Road B2 West, St. Paul, Minnesota 55113-3105, are leased
and consist of approximately 22,000 square feet; the lease
expires in December 1999.  The Registrant also has an option
to terminate the lease during the period December 1994 to
June 1995.  Information about the Registrant's principal
manufacturing facilities and other properties is presented
below by industry segment.  These facilities are adequate and
suitable for the purposes they serve.  Unless noted all facilities
are owned.

In addition, the Company is in the process of expanding into
Mexico through the use of a Maquiladora facility.  Construction
will commence and will be completed in 1994.

Specialty Products Segment

[FN]
FOOTNOTES:

FN1  Leased for a five-year term expiring in 1998.

FN2  Leased for a five-year term expiring in 1994.

FN3  Leased for a five-year term expiring in 1996.

FN4  Leased under a three-year lease which expired in 1991, which is
being renewed under one-year options (limited to seven one-year
periods).


General Industrial Equipment Segment

[FN]
FOOTNOTES:

FN1  Leased for a 25-year term expiring in 1996, with options to renew
for two ten-year terms.

FN2  Currently leased under a month-to-month lease while a longer term
lease is negotiated.

FN3  Includes approximately 51,000 sq. ft. warehouse and 3,000 sq. ft.
office leased for a three-year term which expires in 1995.

FN4  Leased for a six-year term expiring in 1999.

FN5  A small portion of this total facility has been leased for a 30-year
term expiring in 2011.

FN6  Leased under two lease agreements expiring in 2002 and 2005. 
Both leases include a purchase option.

FN7  Leased for a twenty-year term expiring in 2011.

FN8  Leased for a ten-year term expiring in 2000.  This lease includes a
purchase option.



Paper Products Segment


[FN]

FOOTNOTES:

FN1  Certain pulp and paper production equipment is leased.  One lease
expires in 1996 with options to renew for two terms of three years each. 
Another lease expires in 1999 with options to renew for three terms of two
years each.  The third lease expires in 2006 with an option to purchase
after seven years and options to renew for up to eight years .  Under
each lease, Niagara has the option to purchase the equipment at the
then-current market value at the end of the initial term or at the end of
each renewal term.

FN2  Consists of 10,700 square feet of space under a lease expiring in
1997.

FN3  Consists of 202,000 square feet under a lease expiring in 1998 and
253,000 square feet under a lease expiring in 2001.

FN4  The Flambeau mill power plant is leased until 2007 with options to
renew for three terms of five years each.

FN5  Purchased December 1993 and not currently in use.  Projected
capacity is approximately 45,000 net tons.

FN6  The production equipment is leased under 25-year leases through
2012 with options to renew for periods of five to seven years and options
to purchase the equipment in 1997, and at the expiration of the lease
term and of any renewal term.




Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.

The Registrant or its subsidiaries have been made parties to
actions filed, or have been given notice of potential claims, by
state and federal enforcement agencies asserting liability for
past disposal of hazardous wastes, generally in conjunction
with numerous other codefendants or potential codefendants
or asserting responsibility for undertaking remedial action.  In
addition, various other legal actions, governmental
proceedings, and claims are pending against the Registrant or
its subsidiaries.

Major matters which had or may have an impact on the
Registrant are discussed below.  The Registrant believes that,
because of the reserves, insurance coverage and U.S. Army
indemnification discussed below, it is remote that the outcome
of such matters will have a material adverse effect on the
Registrant's financial position or future results of operations,
based on current circumstances known to the Registrant.

Federal-Hoffman TCAAP Facility.  Federal-Hoffman, Inc.
(Federal-Hoffman) is a party to certain litigation and claims
arising out of allegedly improper disposal of hazardous wastes
generated at the Twin Cities Army Ammunition Plant (TCAAP)
in northern Ramsey County, Minnesota, which Federal
Cartridge, a division of Federal-Hoffman, maintains pursuant
to a contract with the U.S. Army.  While remediation of
affected sites continues, the underlying claims or litigation are
the subject of settlement agreements or consent orders and
are resolved in large part.  In light of previous indemnification
of Federal Cartridge by the U.S. Army or Federal-Hoffman's
insurer for all settlements and costs incurred in TCAAP-related
matters, the Registrant believes that liability, if any, to its
Federal-Hoffman subsidiary arising from its operation of the
TCAAP facility will not be material.

Federal-Hoffman, Inc. Sites. Federal Cartridge, a division of
Federal-Hoffman, has been named by the EPA as a Potentially
Responsible Party (PRP) in connection with two environmental
sites based on claims that Federal Cartridge sent material to
these sites.  Based on current information available to it, the
Registrant believes that these matters are unlikely to result in
material future liability.

NL Industries/Taracorp.  The EPA issued an administrative
order effective January 18, 1991 to Federal Cartridge and 48
other entities to compel the clean-up of the NL
Industries/Taracorp site in Granite City, Illinois.  Federal
Cartridge sent virgin lead to a facility on the site to be formed
into lead shot.  The EPA has identified over 300 other PRPs
and estimates the cost of remediating the site to be
approximately $30 million.

On July 31, 1991, EPA sued 11 of the 49 PRPs who were
issued the January 1991 order, seeking enforcement of the
January 1991 order and reimbursement of the EPA's costs,
plus fines and penalties.  Federal Cartridge and three others
were not named in the lawsuit because of pending settlement
discussions.  Federal Cartridge and one other supplier of virgin
materials have offered to pay a total of $1,000,000, of which
$490,000 is Federal Cartridge's share.  The EPA has indicated
that it anticipates submitting a consent decree for court
approval before May 1, 1994.  Federal Cartridge has received
notice that several nonsettling parties oppose the settlement. 

Federal Cartridge's insurer has been notified of this matter and
has declined to indemnify or defend Federal Cartridge with
respect to this matter at this time.

Aqua-Tech.  The EPA issued an administrative order, effective
April 29, 1992 to Federal-Hoffman and 96 other entities, to
compel the cleanup of the Aqua-Tech Environmental, Inc. site
in Greer, South Carolina.  Federal Cartridge shipped waste
from its manufacturing process to this site several times in
recent years.  Federal-Hoffman is working with a group of
other PRPs to negotiate with the EPA regarding the cleanup
of the site.  A surface cleanup of the site is complete.  Under
interim allocations by the PRP group, Federal Cartridge paid
$442,000 toward the cost of the surface cleanup.  Under
current final allocation proposals, Federal-Hoffman anticipates
receiving a credit for some portion of that amount.

The PRP group anticipates beginning a study of the soil and
groundwater to determine the extent of subsurface
contamination.  The cost of such study, any necessary
remediation and the size of allocation, if any, to Federal-
Hoffman is unknown to the Registrant at this time.  Federal-
Hoffman however, anticipates a minimal allocation in the
subsurface action due to the nature of its waste and the fact
that virtually all of its waste was accounted for and removed
during the surface remediation.

In October 1992, Hoffman Engineering, a division of Federal-
Hoffman, was also named as a PRP in connection with the
Aqua-Tech site.  Hoffman settled out of the surface removal as
a de minimis party, and anticipates doing the same for the
subsurface remediation.

Porter-Cable Corporation.  In November 1993, the Tennessee
Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC) issued
to Porter-Cable Corporation (Porter-Cable) and Rockwell
International Corporation an administrative order requiring
them to investigate, and if necessary, clean up alleged
groundwater contamination at a manufacturing facility located
in Madison County, Tennessee.  The facility was acquired by
Porter Cable from Rockwell International Corporation in 1981. 
Porter Cable has served notice on Rockwell of Porter Cable's
intent to seek indemnification from Rockwell, based upon
Tennessee and Federal law, for all costs and expenses related
to investigation and cleanup of the site.  The Registrant
believes that this matter is unlikely to result in material liability
or material changes in operations.  No estimate of the
projected response cost liability can be made based on
information currently known to the Company.

Delta International Machinery.  In January 1993, Beaver-Delta
Machinery Corp. (Beaver-Delta), a former subsidiary of Delta
International Machinery Corp., and three other parties were
sued by a commercial developer and current owner of real
estate in Guelph, Ontario that Rockwell International previously
owned and that was acquired by Beaver-Delta in 1984. 
Trichlorethylene (TCE) and other contamination of soil and
groundwater has been alleged.  Plaintiff seeks past and future
cleanup costs, as well as increased costs and lost profits
allegedly suffered.  Plaintiff alleges in the action that it has
spent Cdn. $160,000 to remediate the property and seeks
damages in the amount of Cdn. $5.5 million.  Preliminary
investigation indicated that Beaver-Delta did not use TCE
during the short period that it owned the property at issue. 
Beaver-Delta has served notice on Rockwell of its intent to
seek indemnification from Rockwell for all costs related to this
matter.  Plaintiff has not pursued this lawsuit since its
commencement.  The Registrant believes that this matter is
unlikely to result in material liability.

Niagara of Wisconsin Paper Corporation.  In January 1994, the
State of Wisconsin filed an enforcement action against Niagara
involving allegations of particulate emissions from Niagara's
coal processing plant in excess of limits set in its permit. 
Emissions at issue occurred at various times between August
1992 and May 1993.  The State is seeking monetary
forfeitures, penalties, injunctive relief and costs for the alleged
violations.  The State's settlement demand of $120,000 has
been rejected by Niagara.  The Registrant believes that this
matter is unlikely to result in liability to Niagara that is material
to the Registrant's overall financial condition.

Cross Pointe Paper Corporation.  The Miami mill of Cross
Pointe Paper Corporation (Miami) is currently discussing with
the State of Ohio alleged violations of Miami's water pollution
control (NPDES) permit which occurred from 1988 to mid
1992.  The State is currently seeking a settlement in an
amount of $220,000.  Miami's current NPDES permit provides
an allowance until 1995 to take corrective action to eliminate
violations.

IWD/Cardington Site.  In February 1994, Miami was named a
PRP in connection with the IWD/Cardington landfill in Moraine,
Ohio.  Waste haulers with whom Miami contracted to transport
its flyash and paper and wood waste allegedly took it to this
landfill for some time prior to its closure in 1980.  The EPA has
identified 22 other PRPs at this time.  The cost of remediation
of the site is estimated to be approximately $12 to $15 million. 
Miami is investigating its alleged involvement at this site.

McNeil (Ohio) Corporation.  F.E. Myers (Myers), a division of
McNeil (Ohio) Corporation, has received notice of a claim of
contamination of soil surrounding an underground storage tank
on property owned by Myers prior to September 1986.  An
estimate of $125,000 has been given to perform remediation
of the alleged contamination.  The Registrant believes that this
matter is unlikely to result in liability to Myers that is material
to the Registrant's overall financial condition.

California Proposition 65 Notice.  In February 1994, Myers
received a notice pursuant to California Health and Safety
Code Section 25249 (Proposition 65) regarding alleged
violations  arising from discharge of lead from submersible
water pumps into drinking water since February 27, 1988. 
Two private environmental groups sent the notice to Myers
and three other pump manufacturers and one pump distributor. 
Under Proposition 65, the penalty for each violation is $2,500
per day.  Myers is currently investigating the claims set forth
in this notice.

Product Liability Claims.  As of March 4, 1994, the Registrant
or its subsidiaries are defendants in approximately 217 product
liability lawsuits and have been notified of approximately 129
additional claims.  The Registrant maintains an active case
management and insurance review program to closely
supervise these and other litigation matters.  The Registrant
has had and currently has in place insurance coverage it
deems adequate for its needs; accounting reserves covering
the deductible portion of all liability claims have been
established and are reviewed on a regular basis.  The
Registrant has not experienced unfavorable trends in either the
severity or frequency of product liability claims.

McNeil Asbestos Lawsuits.  Since 1987,  McNeil and a large
number of manufacturers or installers of asbestos-containing
products have been named as codefendants in lawsuits
involving claims by 6,340 tireworkers seeking damages for
personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or
talc in various tire plants.  A former division of McNeil's
predecessor, McNeil Corporation, supplied tire curing presses
for which asbestos may have been used as an insulating
material.  Of those claims against McNeil, 1,109 have been
dismissed, 4,802 have been settled, with an average
settlement amount of $1,400, and 595 claims remain.  The
evidence developed to date does not suggest that future
settlements would be higher than the historical average.  In
addition, significant dismissals are anticipated to occur without
any indemnity payments.

Ninety percent of the cost of defending and settling these
actions has been paid by McNeil's insurance carriers, with the
balance being paid by McNeil.  The Registrant believes that its
carriers will continue to cover a comparable portion of defense
costs and damages, if any, for which McNeil might be found
liable in the future, and self-insurance reserves are adequate
to cover any remaining portion.  Considering the existence of
factual and legal defenses to the pending suits and the
applicable insurance coverage, the Registrant believes that
these suits are unlikely to result in material liability.



Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

During the fourth quarter, no matter was submitted to a vote of
security holders.





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following are the executive officers of the Registrant. 
Their term of office extends until the next annual meeting of
the Board of Directors, scheduled for April 20, 1994, or until
their successors are elected and have qualified.

Winslow H. Buxton  Age 54

     Chairman since January 15, 1993; President and Chief
     Executive Officer since August 1992; Chief Operating
     Officer, August 1990 - August 1992; Vice President -
     Paper Group, January 1989 - August 1990. 

Joseph R. Collins Age 52

     Senior Vice President - Specialty Products since August
     1991; Acting Chief Financial Officer, June 1993 - March
     14, 1994; President, Delta International Machinery
     Corporation (subsidiary of the Registrant), October 1984 -
     August 1991.

Ronald V. Kelly Age 57

     Senior Vice President - Paper Products since August
     1991; Vice President - Specialty Products, March 1989 -
     August 1991; President, Lake Superior Paper Industries (a
     joint venture in which the Registrant is a 50% owner),
     January 1986 - March 1989.

Gerald C. Kitch Age 56

     Senior Vice President - General Industrial Equipment since
     August 1991; Vice President - General Industrial
     Equipment, March 1989 - August 1991.

Allan J. Kolles Age 62

     Vice President, Human Resources since March 1985.

Roy T. Rueb Age 53

     Vice President, Treasurer since October 1986 and Acting
     Secretary since June 1993.

Mark T. Schroepfer Age 47

     Vice President, Controller since January 1990; Corporate
     Controller, March 1987 - January 1990.

David D. Harrison Age 46

     Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
     March 15, 1994;  Vice-President, Finance and Information
     Technology of the GE Canada Appliance Component subsidiary of
     General Electric, August 1992 - March 1994; Vice
     President, Finance and Deputy Executive Officer of the GE
     Europe Lighting Component subsidiary of General Electric,
     January 1990 - July 1992; and Director of Finance,
     Europe, Controller, and various other financial positions for
     Borg Warner/GE U.S. Plastics Component, February 1972 -
     January 1990. 


Richard W. Ingman Age 49

     Vice President, Corporate Development, August 1989 -
     February 1994; President of Ingman, Inc. (business
     training and consulting), January 1987 - August 1989. 
     Effective March 1, 1994, Mr. Ingman was named President
     of Hoffman Engineering Division of Federal-Hoffman, Inc.
     (subsidiary of Registrant).


There is no family relationship between any of the officers or
directors.




PART II


Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
Shareholder Matters.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operation.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

For information required under Items 5 through 8, see the
Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 1993, as referenced on page 2 of this report.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

No changes in accountants or disagreements between the
Registrant and its accountants regarding accounting principles
or financial statement disclosures have occurred within the 24
months prior to the date of the Registrant's most recent
financial statements.


PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management.

For information required under Items 10 through 12, see the
Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 1994 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders referenced on page 2 of this report, and
"Executive Officers of the Registrant" found after Item 4 of this
report.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

No relationships or transactions existed that require disclosure
under Item 13.


PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
on Form 8-K.

(a)  Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules, and
Exhibits.

1.  The following consolidated financial statements of Pentair,
Inc. and subsidiaries, together with the Report of Independent
Auditors, found on pages 24 to 37 of the Registrant's Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
1993, are hereby incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.

                                               Page of Annual Report
Report of Independent Auditors                                    24

Consolidated Statement of Income 
for Years Ended December 31, 1993,
1992 and 1991                                                     25

Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
December 31, 1993 and 1992                                   26 - 27

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for Years Ended December 31, 1993,
1992 and 1991                                                     28

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements                                                   29 - 37


2.  The additional financial data listed below is included as
exhibits to this Form 10-K Report and should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements
presented in the 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders. 
Schedules not included with this additional financial data have
been omitted because they are not required or the required
information is included in the financial statements or the notes.

Independent Auditors' Report

Schedules for the years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and
1991:

V - Property, Plant and Equipment

VI - Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization of Property,
Plant and Equipment

VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

X - Supplementary Income Statement Information


3.  The following exhibits are included with this Report on
Form 10-K (or incorporated by reference) as required by Item
601 of Regulation S-K.

Exhibit
Number                                 Description

(3.1)             Restated Articles of Incorporation as amended
                  through April 25, 1989.

(3.2)             Resolution Establishing and Designating $7.50
                  Callable Cumulative Convertible Preferred
                  Stock, Series 1988, as a series of Preferred
                  Stock of Pentair, Inc.

(3.3)             Resolution Establishing and Designating 8%
                  Callable Cumulative Voting Convertible
                  Preferred Stock, Series 1990, as a series of
                  Preferred Stock of Pentair, Inc.

(3.4)             Second Amended and Superseding By-Laws as
                  amended through January 19, 1993.

(4.1)             Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended,
                  and Second Amended and Superseding By-
                  Laws, as amended (see Exhibits 3.1 - 3.4
                  above).

(4.2)             Rights Agreement dated December 26, 1986
                  between the Company and First Trust
                  Company, Inc.

(4.3)             Amendment to Rights Agreement dated July 22,
                  1988 between the Company and Norwest Bank
                  Minnesota, National Association, as successor
                  Rights Agent (Amending Exhibit 4.2).

(4.4)             Second Amendment to Rights Agreement dated
                  December 15, 1989 between the Company and
                  Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association,
                  as successor Rights Agent (Amending Exhibit
                  4.2). 

(4.5)             Bid Loan Agreement dated December 14, 1988
                  between the Company, Continental Bank N.A.
                  for itself and as Agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust
                  Company of New York, Morgan Bank
                  (Delaware), First Bank National Association,
                  Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., and Mellon
                  Bank, N.A.

(4.6)             First Amendment to Bid Loan Agreement dated
                  January 1, 1991 between the Company,
                  Continental Bank N.A. for itself and as Agent,
                  Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
                  Morgan Bank (Delaware), First Bank National
                  Association, Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., and
                  NBD Bank, N.A. (Amending Exhibit 4.5). 

(4.7)             Second Amendment to Bid Loan Agreement
                  dated as of February 11, 1994 between Pentair,
                  Inc., Continental Bank N.A. for itself and as
                  Agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New
                  York, J.P. Morgan Delaware, First Bank National
                  Assocation, Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., and
                  NBD Bank, N.A. (Amending Exhibit 4.5). 

(4.8)             $125,000,000 Facility Agreement dated as of
                  February 11, 1994 between Pentair, Inc.,
                  Continental Bank N.A. for itself and as Agent,
                  Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
                  for itself and as Agent, NBD Bank, N.A., and J.
                  P. Morgan Delaware.

(4.9)             $45,000,000 Facility Agreement dated as of
                  February 11, 1994 between Pentair, Inc., First
                  Bank National Association, for itself and as
                  Agent, and Norwest Bank Minnesota N.A. 

(4.10)            DM 115,000,000 Facility Agreement dated as of
                  February 11, 1994 between EuroPentair, GmbH
                  as Borrower, Pentair, Inc., as Guarantor,
                  Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
                  for itself and as Agent, Continental Bank N.A.,
                  for itself and as Agent, NBD  Bank, N.A. and
                  Dresdner Bank.

(4.11)            Restatement of Credit Agreement dated July 11,
                  1989 between Federal-Hoffman, Inc. and First
                  Bank National Association.

(4.12)            Second Amendment to Restatement of Credit
                  Agreement dated as of January 19, 1993
                  between Federal-Hoffman, Inc., Pentair, Inc.,
                  and First Bank National Association (Amending
                  Exhibit 4.11) .

(4.13)            $35,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement dated
                  March 25, 1991  between Pentair, Inc. and
                  Nationwide Life Insurance Company.

(4.14)            $25,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement dated
                  December 13, 1991  between Pentair, Inc. and
                  Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company.

(4.15)            $15,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement dated
                  November 1, 1992  between Pentair, Inc. and
                  Nationwide Life Insurance Company.

(4.16)            $15,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement dated
                  January 15, 1993  between Pentair, Inc. and
                  Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company.

(4.17)            $70,000,000 Senior Notes Purchase Agreement
                  dated as of April 30, 1993 between Pentair, Inc.
                  and United of Omaha Life Insurance Company,
                  Companion Life Insurance Company, Principal
                  Mutual Life Insurance Company, Nippon Life
                  Insurance Company of America, Lutheran
                  Brotherhood, American United Life Insurance
                  Company, Modern Woodmen of America, The
                  Franklin Life Insurance Company and Ameritas
                  Life Insurance Corp.

(10.1)            Agreements dated February 8, 1978 and
                  February 9, 1982 between the Company and D.
                  Eugene Nugent.

(10.2)            Agreement dated February 8, 1984 (Amending
                  Exhibit 10.1).

(10.3)            Agreement dated December 17, 1985
                  (Amending Exhibit 10.1).

(10.4)            Agreement dated May 7, 1990 (Amending
                  Exhibit 10.1).

(10.5)            Company's Supplemental Employee Retirement
                  Plan effective June 16, 1988.

(10.6)            Company's Restated Long-Term Executive
                  Performance Plan as amended to October 21,
                  1987.

(10.7)            Company's 1982 Incentive Stock Option Plan. 

(10.8)            First Amendment to Incentive Stock Plan
                  (Amending Exhibit 10.10).

(10.9)            Second Amendment to Incentive Stock Option
                  Plan (Amending Exhibit 10.10).

(10.10)           Company's 1986 Nonqualified Stock Option
                  Plan. 

(10.11)           Company's 1990 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan
                  (Superseding Exhibits 10.6 - 10.10 above
                  starting with 1990 grants).

(10.12)           Company's Management Incentive Plan as
                  amended to January 12, 1990.

(10.13)           Employee Stock Purchase and Bonus Plan as
                  amended and restated effective January 1,
                  1992. 

(10.14)           Company's Flexible Perquisite Program as
                  amended to January 1, 1989.

(10.15)           Form of 1986 Management Assurance
                  Agreement (Revised 1990) between the
                  Company and certain executive officers.

(10.16)           Company's Third Amended and Restated
                  Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
                  as amended to January 1, 1992.

(10.17)           Company's Outside Directors Nonqualified Stock
                  Option Plan dated January 22, 1988. 

(10.18)           First Amendment to Outside Directors
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (Amending
                  Exhibit 10.17).

(10.19)           Second Amendment to Outside Directors
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (Amending
                  Exhibit 10.17).

(10.20)           Pentair, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan
                  effective January 1, 1993.

(10.21)           Lake Superior Paper Industries Venture Council
                  By-Laws and Management Protocol. 

(10.22)           Second Amended and Restated Joint Venture
                  Agreement dated December 31, 1987 between
                  Pentair Duluth Corp. and Minnesota Paper,
                  Incorporated.

(10.23)           First Amendment to Second Restated Joint
                  Venture Agreement, First Amendment to
                  Venture Council By-Laws, and First Amendment
                  to Management Protocol, all dated May 30,
                  1989, between Pentair Duluth Corp. and
                  Minnesota Paper, Incorporated (Amending
                  Exhibits 10.21 and 10.22).

(10.24)           Cash Deficiency Agreement dated December
                  31, 1987 among Pentair Duluth Corp., as Joint
                  Venturer, Associated Southern Investment
                  Company, as Owner Participant, The
                  Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, National
                  Association, as Indenture Trustee, and First
                  National Bank of Minneapolis, as Owner
                  Trustee.  Cash Deficiency Agreements also
                  were entered into with respect to each of the
                  other four Owner Participants:  Dana Lease
                  Finance Corporation, NYNEX Credit Company,
                  Public Service Resources Corporation, and
                  Southern Indiana Properties, Inc.

(10.25)           Keepwell Agreement and Assignment dated
                  December 31, 1987 among Pentair, Inc., as
                  Sponsor, Pentair Duluth Corp., as Joint
                  Venturer, and First National Bank of
                  Minneapolis, as Owner Trustee; although First
                  Minneapolis executed this filed document as
                  Owner Trustee for Associated Southern
                  Investment Company, additional Keepwell
                  Agreements and Assignments were entered into
                  by First Minneapolis as Owner Trustee for the
                  other four Owner Participants listed in the
                  description of Exhibit 10.24 above.

(10.26)           Definition of Terms for Financing Agreement
                  dated December 31, 1987 and the Transaction
                  Documents Referred to Therein:  Sale and
                  Leaseback of Undivided Interest in Lake
                  Superior Paper Industries' Supercalendered
                  Paper Mill; although this filed document supplies
                  the definitions applicable to the agreements filed
                  as Exhibits 10.24 and 10.25 above, there were
                  four additional sets of definitions that supply the
                  definitions for the other sets of agreements
                  referred to in the descriptions of those Exhibits
                  with respect to the various Owner Participants.

(10.27)           Loan and Stock Purchase Agreement dated
                  March 7, 1990 between the Company and the
                  Pentair, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan
                  Trust, acting through State Street Bank and
                  Trust Company, as Trustee.

(10.28)           $56,499,982 Promissory Note dated March 7,
                  1990 of the Pentair, Inc. Employee Stock
                  Ownership Plan Trust, acting through State
                  Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee, to
                  the Company.

(11)              Statement regarding computation of earnings
                  per share. 

(13)              Annual Report to Shareholders for period ended
                  December 31, 1993.

(21)              Subsidiaries of Registrant.

(24)              Consent of Deloitte & Touche. 


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

         None.



SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PENTAIR, INC.

By: Joseph R. Collins
Senior Vice President and
  Chief Financial Officer

Dated:  March 28, 1994



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has also been signed by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and
on the dates indicated.


By:  Winslow H. Buxton
                  Chairman, President and
                  Chief Executive Officer, Director

Dated:  March 28, 1994


By:  George N. Butzow, Director
Dated:  March 28, 1994


By:  Harold V. Haverty, Director
Dated:  March 28, 1994


By:  Quentin J. Hietpas, Director
Dated:  March 28, 1994


By:  B. Kristine Johnson, Director
Dated:  March 28, 1994


By:  Walter Kissling, Director
Dated:  March 28, 1994


By:  H. William Lurton, Director

Dated:  March 28, 1994

By:  D. Eugene Nugent, Director
Dated:  March 28, 1994




INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT 


Pentair, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of
Pentair, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and
1992, and for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1993, and have issued our report thereon dated
February 11, 1994; such financial statements and report are
included in your 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders and are
incorporated herein by reference.  Our audits also included the
financial statement schedules of Pentair, Inc. and subsidiaries
listed in Item 14.  These financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits.  In
our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.


DELOITTE & TOUCHE
Saint Paul, Minnesota
February 11, 1994



[FN]

FN1  Column E includes the sale of the Accutec division of
Hoffman Engineering.
                              $  (13,495)

FN2  Column E includes the sale of Invicta division of Delta
International Machinery
                              $  (11,833)
    and FAS 109 tax adjusting entries.
                              $   13,228 

FN3  Column E includes classification of F.E. Myers Foundry 
          from asset held for disposition
                              $    3,887 




[FN]

FN1  Column E includes the sale of the Accutec division of
Hoffman Engineering.
                                 $(2,482)

FN2  Column E includes the sale of Invicta division of Delta
International Machinery.
                                 $(9,108)

FN3  Column E includes the classification of F.E. Myers
Foundry
from asset held for disposition.
                                  $1,763 






All other supplemental income statement information items are
not included in this schedule because they are not required to
be disclosed pursuant to Regulation S-X.

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit
Number        Description

(3.1)         Restated Articles of Incorporation as amended
              through April 25, 1989 (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Form
              10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1989).

(3.2)         Resolution Establishing and Designating $7.50
              Callable Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock,
              Series 1988, as a series of Preferred Stock of
              Pentair, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              4.1 to Amendment No. 1 to the Company's
              Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 30,
              1988).

(3.3)         Resolution Establishing and Designating 8%
              Callable Cumulative Voting Convertible Preferred
              Stock, Series 1990, as a series of Preferred
              Stock of Pentair, Inc. (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 4 to the Company's Current Report on 
              Form 8-K filed March 21, 1990).

(3.4)         Second Amended and Superseding By-Laws as
              amended through January 19, 1993
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.16 to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1992).

(4.1)         Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended,
              and Second Amended and Superseding By-
              Laws, as amended (see Exhibits 3.1 - 3.4
              above).

(4.2)         Rights Agreement dated December 26, 1986
              between the Company and First Trust Company,
              Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to
              the Company's Registration Statement on Form
              8-A filed December 26, 1986).

(4.3)         Amendment to Rights Agreement dated July 22,
              1988 between the Company and Norwest Bank
              Minnesota, National Association, as successor
              Rights Agent (Amending Exhibit 4.2)
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
              Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
              August 2, 1988).

(4.4)         Second Amendment to Rights Agreement dated
              December 15, 1989 between the Company and
              Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association,
              as successor Rights Agent (Amending Exhibit
              4.2) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to
              the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
              December 28, 1989). 

(4.5)         Bid Loan Agreement dated December 14, 1988
              between the Company, Continental Bank N.A.
              for itself and as Agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust
              Company of New York, Morgan Bank
              (Delaware), First Bank National Association,
              Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., and Mellon
              Bank, N.A. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              4.2 to Amendment No. 1 to the Company's
              Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 30,
              1988).

(4.6)         First Amendment to Bid Loan Agreement dated
              January 1, 1991 between the Company,
              Continental Bank N.A. for itself and as Agent,
              Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
              Morgan Bank (Delaware), First Bank National
              Association, Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., and
              NBD Bank, N.A. (Amending Exhibit 4.5)
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10K for the
              year ended December 31, 1990).

(4.7)         Second Amendment to Bid Loan Agreement
              dated as of February 11, 1994 between Pentair,
              Inc., Continental Bank N.A. for itself and as
              Agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New
              York, J.P. Morgan Delaware, First Bank National
              Assocation, Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., and
              NBD Bank, N.A. (Amending Exhibit 4.5)
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the
              Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
              March 14, 1994).

(4.8)         $125,000,000 Facility Agreement dated as of
              February 11, 1994 between Pentair, Inc.,
              Continental Bank N.A. for itself and as Agent,
              Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
              for itself and as Agent, NBD Bank, N.A., and J.
              P. Morgan Delaware (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report
              on Form 8-K filed March 14, 1994).

(4.9)         $45,000,000 Facility Agreement dated as of
              February 11, 1994 between Pentair, Inc., First
              Bank National Association, for itself and as
              Agent, and Norwest Bank Minnesota N.A.
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
              Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
              March 14, 1994).

(4.10)        DM 115,000,000 Facility Agreement dated as of
              February 11, 1994 between EuroPentair, GmbH
              as Borrower, Pentair, Inc., as Guarantor, Morgan
              Guaranty Trust Company of New York for itself
              and as Agent, Continental Bank N.A., for itself
              and as Agent, NBD  Bank, N.A. and Dresdner
              Bank (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to
              the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
              March 14, 1994).

(4.11)        Restatement of Credit Agreement dated July 11,
              1989 between Federal-Hoffman, Inc. and First
              Bank National Association (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the Company's Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989).

(4.12)        Second Amendment to Restatement of Credit
              Agreement dated as of January 19, 1993
              between Federal-Hoffman, Inc., Pentair, Inc., and
              First Bank National Association (Amending
              Exhibit 4.11) (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 4.13 to the Company's Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1992).

(4.13)        $35,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement dated
              March 25, 1991  between Pentair, Inc. and
              Nationwide Life Insurance Company. 
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.14 to the
              Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8
              filed August 6, 1991).

(4.14)        $25,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement dated
              December 13, 1991  between Pentair, Inc. and
              Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company. 
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.15 to the
              Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8
              filed January 13, 1992).

(4.15)        $15,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement dated
              November 1, 1992  between Pentair, Inc. and
              Nationwide Life Insurance Company
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.16 to the
              Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1992).

(4.16)        $15,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement dated
              January 15, 1993  between Pentair, Inc. and
              Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.17 to the
              Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1992).

(4.17)        $70,000,000 Senior Notes Purchase Agreement
              dated as of April 30, 1993 between Pentair, Inc.
              and United of Omaha Life Insurance Company,
              Companion Life Insurance Company, Principal
              Mutual Life Insurance Company, Nippon Life
              Insurance Company of America, Lutheran
              Brotherhood, American United Life Insurance
              Company, Modern Woodmen of America, The
              Franklin Life Insurance Company and Ameritas
              Life Insurance Corp.

(10.1)        Agreements dated February 8, 1978 and
              February 9, 1982 between the Company and D.
              Eugene Nugent (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Registration
              Statement on Form S-2 filed June 24, 1983).

(10.2)        Agreement dated February 8, 1984 (Amending
              Exhibit 10.1) (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
              1983).

(10.3)        Agreement dated December 17, 1985 (Amending
              Exhibit 10.1) (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
              1985).

(10.4)        Agreement dated May 7, 1990 (Amending
              Exhibit 10.1). (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Annual Report on
              Form 10K for the year ended December 31,
              1990).

(10.5)        Company's Supplemental Employee Retirement
              Plan effective June 16, 1988 (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1989).

(10.6)        Company's Restated Long-Term Executive
              Performance Plan as amended to October 21,
              1987 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9
              to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the year ended December 31, 1987).

(10.7)        Company's 1982 Incentive Stock Option Plan
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the
              Company's Registration Statement on Form S-2
              filed June 24, 1983).

(10.8)        First Amendment to Incentive Stock Plan
              (Amending Exhibit 10.7) (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1985).

(10.9)        Second Amendment to Incentive Stock Option
              Plan (Amending Exhibit 10.7) (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 14 to the Company's Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1989).

(10.10)       Company's 1986 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1986).

(10.11)       Company's 1990 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan
              (Superseding Exhibits 10.6 - 10.10 above starting
              with 1990 grants) (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's Annual Report
              on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
              1989).

(10.12)       Company's Management Incentive Plan as
              amended to January 12, 1990 (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1989).

(10.13)       Employee Stock Purchase and Bonus Plan as
              amended and restated effective January 1, 1992
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1991). 

(10.14)       Company's Flexible Perquisite Program as
              amended to January 1, 1989 (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1989).

(10.15)       Form of 1986 Management Assurance
              Agreement (Revised 1990) between the
              Company and certain executive officers
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1989).

(10.16)       Company's Third Amended and Restated
              Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
              as amended to January 1, 1992.  (Incorporated
              by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
              Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed
              January 13, 1992).

(10.17)       Company's Outside Directors Nonqualified Stock
              Option Plan dated January 22, 1988
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1987).

(10.18)       First Amendment to Outside Directors
              Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (Amending
              Exhibit 10.17) (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.22 to the Company's Annual Report
              on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
              1991).

(10.19)       Second Amendment to Outside Directors
              Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (Amending
              Exhibit 10.17) (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.23 to the Company's Annual Report
              on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
              1991).

(10.20)       Pentair, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan
              effective January 1, 1993 (Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the Company's
              Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
              1992).

(10.21)       Lake Superior Paper Industries Venture Council
              By-Laws and Management Protocol
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1985).

(10.22)       Second Amended and Restated Joint Venture
              Agreement dated December 31, 1987 between
              Pentair Duluth Corp. and Minnesota Paper,
              Incorporated (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.25 to the Company's Annual Report
              on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
              1987).

(10.23)       First Amendment to Second Restated Joint
              Venture Agreement, First Amendment to Venture
              Council By-Laws, and First Amendment to
              Management Protocol, all dated May 30, 1989,
              between Pentair Duluth Corp. and Minnesota
              Paper, Incorporated (Amending Exhibits 10.21
              and 10.22) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10.28 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989).

(10.24)       Cash Deficiency Agreement dated December 31,
              1987 among Pentair Duluth Corp., as Joint
              Venturer, Associated Southern Investment
              Company, as Owner Participant, The
              Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, National
              Association, as Indenture Trustee, and First
              National Bank of Minneapolis, as Owner Trustee. 
              Cash Deficiency Agreements also were entered
              into with respect to each of the other four Owner
              Participants:  Dana Lease Finance Corporation,
              NYNEX Credit Company, Public Service
              Resources Corporation, and Southern Indiana
              Properties, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 1 to the
              Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
              April 26, 1988).

(10.25)       Keepwell Agreement and Assignment dated
              December 31, 1987 among Pentair, Inc., as
              Sponsor, Pentair Duluth Corp., as Joint Venturer,
              and First National Bank of Minneapolis, as
              Owner Trustee; although First Minneapolis
              executed this filed document as Owner Trustee
              for Associated Southern Investment Company,
              additional Keepwell Agreements and
              Assignments were entered into by First
              Minneapolis as Owner Trustee for the other four
              Owner Participants listed in the description of
              Exhibit 10.24 above (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10.2 to Amendment No. 1 to the
              Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
              April 26, 1988).

(10.26)       Definition of Terms for Financing Agreement
              dated December 31, 1987 and the Transaction
              Documents Referred to Therein:  Sale and
              Leaseback of Undivided Interest in Lake
              Superior Paper Industries' Supercalendered
              Paper Mill; although this filed document supplies
              the definitions applicable to the agreements filed
              as Exhibits 10.24 and 10.25 above, there were
              four additional sets of definitions that supply the
              definitions for the other sets of agreements
              referred to in the descriptions of those Exhibits
              with respect to the various Owner Participants
              (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
              Amendment No. 1 to the Company's Current
              Report on Form 8-K filed April 26, 1988).

(10.27)       Loan and Stock Purchase Agreement dated
              March 7, 1990 between the Company and the
              Pentair, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan
              Trust, acting through State Street Bank and Trust
              Company, as Trustee (Incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report
              on Form 8-K filed March 21, 1990).

(10.28)       $56,499,982 Promissory Note dated March 7,
              1990 of the Pentair, Inc. Employee Stock
              Ownership Plan Trust, acting through State
              Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee, to
              the Company (Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current Report on
              Form 8-K filed March 21, 1990).

(11)          Statement regarding computation of earnings
              per share. 

(13)          Annual Report to Shareholders for period ended
              December 31, 1993.

(21)          Subsidiaries of Registrant.

(24)          Consent of Deloitte & Touche. 



