
10-K
c60900e10-k.txt
FORM 10-K




                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

     [X]        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                                       OR

     [ ]        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                        THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         Commission file number 1-11625

                                 PENTAIR, INC.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)



REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (651) 636-7920

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:  NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]   No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in PART III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant on February 26, 2001, was $1,203,932,854, based upon a closing price
of $27.2813 per share. The number of shares outstanding of Registrant's only
class of common stock on February 26, 2001, was 49,004,429.


                                 PENTAIR, INC.
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                                     PART I





                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  OUR BUSINESS

Unless otherwise indicated, all references to "Pentair," "we," "our," and "us"
refer to Pentair, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (incorporated in 1966), and its
subsidiaries.

We are a diversified manufacturer operating in three segments on a global basis.
Our diversification enables us to provide shareholders with relatively
consistent and improved operating results despite difficult markets in one or
another segment. Continuous demand for power tools, ever-increasing need for
clean water throughout the world, and the critical importance of protecting
sensitive electronics give Pentair excellent prospects for long-term
performance. Our basic operating strategies include:

- - ongoing cost containment;
- - new product development;
- - multi-channel distribution; and
- - portfolio management of our businesses.

Our home page on the Internet is www.pentair.com. You may learn more about us by
visiting this site. The information on our web site is not incorporated into
this annual report on Form 10-K.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS
We continually look at each of our businesses to determine whether they fit with
our evolving strategic vision. Our primary focus is on businesses with strong
fundamentals and growth opportunities. We seek growth both through product and
service innovation and acquisitions. Acquisitions have played an important part
in the growth of our business over the past five years.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
After evaluating our strategic plans for the future, we elected to discontinue
our Equipment segment (Century/Lincoln and Lincoln Industrial businesses) in the
fourth quarter of 2000. Discussions with potential purchasers are currently
being held and we expect to dispose of these businesses in mid-2001. Also refer
to ITEM 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, and ITEM 8, Note 3 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Form 10-K.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

We classify our continuing operations into the following business segments:

- - TOOLS -- which manufactures and markets tool products positioned at the
  high-end of the market and targets professionals and upscale hobbyists. Tools
  segment products include woodworking machinery, portable power tools,
  compressors, generators, and pressure washers.

- - WATER -- which manufactures and markets essential products for the transport
  and treatment of water, wastewater and fluids. Water segment products include
  water and wastewater pumps, control valves, pumps and pumping stations for
  thick fluid transfer applications, storage tanks, filtration systems, and pool
  and spa accessories.

- - ENCLOSURES -- which designs, manufactures, and markets customized and standard
  metal and composite enclosures that house and protect sensitive controls and
  components for markets that include data communications, networking,
  telecommunications, automotive, and general electronics. Products include
  metallic and composite enclosures, cabinets, cases, subracks, thermal
  management backplanes and power supplies.

- - OTHER -- is primarily composed of corporate expenses, our insurance
  subsidiary, intermediate finance companies, divested operations, discontinued
  operations, and intercompany eliminations.



Business segment and geographical financial information is contained in ITEM 8,
Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Form
10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.

TOOLS SEGMENT

SEASONALITY
In line with the Christmas gift-giving season, we experience strong fourth
quarter and weaker first quarter sales in our Tools segment. Because of this, we
also experience higher inventories in the third quarter and growth in accounts
receivable in the fourth and first quarters of each year.

COMPETITION
The Tools segment faces numerous competitors, some of which are larger and have
more resources. Competition in the Tools segment has been intense and continues
to increase, especially as these industries consolidate. In most markets, only a
few large players remain, each having extensive product lines. Growth is
anticipated to come from product development, continued penetration of expanding
market channels, and acquisitions.

Competition at the end-user level focuses primarily on brand names, product
performance and features, quality, service and, most importantly, price. The
competition for shelf space at home centers and national retailers is
particularly intense, demanding continuing product innovation, special inventory
and delivery programs, after-sale service capability, and competitive pricing.
Our strategy is to be the price/quality leader in our selected markets. Our
success in maintaining our position in the marketplace is primarily due to
developing product feature innovations, new products, outsourcing, and other
cost-reduction measures.

CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION
Information regarding significant customers in our Tools segment is contained in
ITEM 8, Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in
this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.

WATER SEGMENT

SEASONALITY
We experience strong seasonal demand in our Water segment for pool and spa
equipment products in the March through July time period, with advance sales
occurring in earlier months, which generally receive longer payment terms.

COMPETITION
Our Water segment faces numerous competitors, some of which are larger, have
more resources, and are more vertically integrated. Competition in the
commercial and residential pump markets focuses on brand names, product
performance, quality and price. While home center and national retailers are
important for residential lines of water and wastewater pumps, they are much
less important in commercial pump markets. In municipal pump markets,
competition focuses on performance to required specification, service and price.
Competition in the water treatment component market focuses on product
performance and design, quality, delivery and price. In the pool and spa
equipment market, there are a number of competitors with one that we consider
our major competitor. We compete by offering a wide variety of innovative and
high quality products, which are competitively priced. Our existing distribution
channels and reputation for quality also contribute to our continuing market
penetration.

ENCLOSURES SEGMENT

COMPETITION
Competition in product markets can be very intense, especially in telecom and
datacom markets, where product design, prototyping, global supply, and customer
service are very significant factors. As we further penetrate the telecom and
datacom markets, the Enclosures segment encounters increasing competition on a
global basis from contract electronics manufacturers. Finally, growth in the
Enclosures segment will



likely come from continued channel penetration, growth in defined modification
product offerings, product development, geographic expansion, and acquisitions.
Consolidation, globalization, and outsourcing are the most important trends in
the fast-growing electronic enclosures business and we participated by making
several acquisitions in the past few years. The globalization of product demand
increasingly requires worldwide local supply capability and no one competitor
has successfully established that capability, although each of the major
competitors in this market is actively pursuing geographic extension for
customer support purposes.

INFORMATION REGARDING ALL BUSINESS SEGMENTS

BACKLOG
Our backlog of orders from continuing operations was $257.1 million as of the
end of 2000, compared with $221.1 million as of the end of 1999. The increase in
2000 backlog is primarily due to increased orders for our enclosure products.

ENVIRONMENTAL
Matters pertaining to the environment are discussed in ITEM 3, ITEM 7, and in
ITEM 8, Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in
this Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference.

RAW MATERIALS
As a result of our significant diversification, we are not exposed to large
swings in any one raw material price. The materials used in the various
manufacturing processes are purchased on the open market, and the majority are
available through multiple sources and are in adequate supply.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Patents, trademarks, and proprietary technology are important to our business.
However, we do not regard our business as being materially dependent upon any
single patent, trademark, or technology.

EMPLOYEES
As of the end of 2000 we employed approximately 13,100 people and consider our
employee relations to be good.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

Our corporate offices are located in St. Paul, Minnesota. Manufacturing
operations are carried out at approximately 22 plants located throughout the
United States and at some 16 manufacturing plants located in 9 other countries.
In addition, we have approximately 30 warehouse facilities and numerous sales
and service offices throughout the world.

We believe that our production facilities are suitable for their purpose and are
adequate to support our businesses.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We have been made parties to a number of actions filed or have been given notice
of potential claims relating to the conduct of our business, including those
pertaining to product liability, environmental, safety and health, patent
infringement, and employment matters. Major matters that may have an impact on
Pentair are discussed below. We believe that the outcome of such legal
proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
position, liquidity, or future results of operations.

ENVIRONMENTAL
We have been named as defendants, targets or potentially responsible parties
(PRPs) in a small number of environmental cleanups, in which we or our current
or former business units have generally been given de minimis status. To date,
none of these claims have resulted in cleanup costs, fines, penalties, or
damages in an amount material to our financial condition or results of
operations. We have disposed of a


number of businesses over the past ten years; in certain cases, such as the
disposition of Cross Pointe Paper Corporation uncoated paper business in 1995
and the disposition of Federal Cartridge Company ammunition business in 1997, we
have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental
obligations. We have established what we believe to be adequate accruals for
potential liabilities arising out of these retained responsibilities. Claims
since the sale have supported our position on accruals.

In addition to retained obligations relating to these disposed operations, there
are pending environmental issues concerning a site in Jackson, Tennessee, on
which the state environmental agency has opened an investigation. We acquired
the site from Rockwell International Corporation, with whom we have agreed on
division of responsibility for remediation and other future costs relating to
the site. We do not believe, however, that projected response costs will result
in material liability or material changes in operations.

PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS
As of February 28, 2001, we are defendants in approximately 123 product
liability lawsuits and have been notified of approximately 138 additional
claims. We continue to have in place insurance coverage deemed adequate for our
needs. A substantial number of these lawsuits and claims are insured and accrued
for by Penwald Insurance Company (Penwald), a regulated insurance company wholly
owned by Pentair. See discussion in ITEM 8, Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements -- Insurance subsidiary. Accounting accruals covering the
deductible portion of liability claims not covered by Penwald have been
established and are reviewed on a regular basis. We have not experienced
unfavorable trends in either the severity or frequency of product liability
claims.

HORIZON LITIGATION
Twenty-eight separate lawsuits involving 29 primary plaintiffs, a class action,
and claims for indemnity by Celebrity Cruise Lines, Inc. (Celebrity), were
brought against Essef Corporation (Essef) and certain of its subsidiaries prior
to our acquisition in August 1999. These lawsuits alleged exposure to
Legionnaires bacteria by passengers aboard the cruise ship M/V Horizon, a ship
operated by Celebrity. The lawsuits included a class action brought on behalf of
all passengers aboard the ship during the relevant time period, individual
"opt-out" passenger suits, and a suit by Celebrity. Celebrity alleges in its
suit that it has sustained economic damages due to loss of usage of the M/V
Horizon while it was dry-docked.

The claims against Essef and its involved subsidiaries, are based upon the
allegation that Essef designed, manufactured, and marketed two sand swimming
pool filters that were installed as a part of the spa system on the Horizon, and
allegations that the spa, and filters, contained bacteria that infected certain
passengers on cruises from December 1993 through July 1994.

Prior to our acquisition of Essef, a settlement was reached in the class action.
Essef and Celebrity have jointly attempted to resolve claims brought by
"opt-out" plaintiffs. To date, all but four of the "opt-out" plaintiffs' claims
have been settled. Compensatory damage trials for the four remaining "opt-out"
plaintiffs are scheduled to commence in late March 2001.

The claims of one plaintiff were tried under a stipulation among all remaining
parties providing that the liability findings would be applicable to all
plaintiffs and defendants. The claims of this plaintiff were unusual because he
alleged that he developed complications that profoundly impaired his mental
functioning. (No other plaintiff asserted similar claims).

The trial resulted in a jury verdict on June 13, 2000 finding liability on the
part of the Essef Defendants (70%) and Celebrity and its sister company Fantasia
(together 30%). Compensatory damages in the total amount of $2.7 million were
awarded, each defendant being accountable for its proportionate share of
liability. The Essef Defendants' proportionate share is covered by insurance.
Punitive damages were separately awarded against the Essef Defendants in the
total amount of $7 million, with 60% awarded to all remaining plaintiffs and 40%
to Celebrity. In any subsequent trial of other plaintiffs in this litigation, no



further punitive damages will be available. Essef and its subsidiaries filed
post-trial motions challenging the verdict, and if necessary, will file an
appeal.

At the current time, we are optimistic that all of the pending suits will be
resolved within available insurance coverage. With regard to Celebrity's claim
against Essef, Westchester, one of Essef's insurance carriers, has issued a
Notice of Rights letter. This is a pre-acquisition liability and we have
reserves sufficient to cover the amount of any uninsured awards or settlements.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

NONE.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Current executive officers of Pentair, their ages, current position, and their
business experience during the past five years are as follows:





                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
         MATTERS

Our common stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange and trades
under the symbol "PNR." As of December 31, 2000, there were 4,271 shareholders
of record.

The high, low, and closing sales price for our common stock and the dividends
declared for each of the quarterly periods for 2000 and 1999 were as follows:



Pentair has paid 100 consecutive quarterly dividends. See ITEM 8, Note 8 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for certain dividend restrictions.

The Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Pentair will be held at the Lutheran
Brotherhood Auditorium, 625 Fourth Avenue South, Minneapolis, Minnesota, on
Wednesday, April 25, 2001, at 10:00 A.M.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The table below sets forth summary consolidated historical data relating to
Pentair and was derived from the audited historical Consolidated Financial
Statements of Pentair.



All financial information reflects our Equipment segment (Century/Lincoln and
Lincoln Industrial businesses) as discontinued operations.

We have restated all financial information for the adoption of a new accounting
standard related to shipping and handling fees and costs.

The 2000 results include a non-cash pre-tax cumulative effect of accounting
change of $1.9 million expense ($1.2 million after tax, or $0.02 per share).

The 1997 results include a pre-tax gain on the sale of Federal Cartridge of
$10.3 million ($1.2 million after tax, or $0.03 per share).



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

Our disclosure and analysis in this report may contain some forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or
forecasts of future events. Forward-looking statements generally can be
identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "may," "will,"
"expected," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "project," or
"continue," or the negative thereof or similar words. From time to time, we also
may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials we
release to the public. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this
report and in any public statements we make could be materially different. They
can be affected by assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks or
uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statements can be guaranteed.
Actual results may vary materially. Investors are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on any forward-looking statements. Investors should also understand
that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not
consider the following list to be a complete statement of all-potential risks
and uncertainties.

Any change in the following factors may impact the achievement of results:

     - changes in industry conditions, such as:

      - the strength of product demand;

      - the intensity of competition;

      - pricing pressures;

      - market acceptance of new product introductions;

      - the introduction of new products by competitors;

      - our ability to source components from third parties without interruption
        and at reasonable prices; and

      - the financial condition of our customers.

     - changes in our business strategies;

     - general economic conditions, such as the rate of economic growth in our
       principal geographic or product markets or fluctuations in exchange
       rates;

     - changes in operating factors, such as continued improvement in
       manufacturing activities and the achievement of related efficiencies and
       inventory risks due to shifts in market demand; and

     - our ability to accurately evaluate the effects of contingent liabilities
       such as taxes, product liability, environmental, and other liabilities.

The foregoing factors are not exhaustive, and new factors may emerge or changes
to the foregoing factors may occur that would impact our business.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following table sets forth information from our consolidated statements of
income.



Percentages may reflect rounding adjustments.
SG&A and R&D -- Selling, general and administrative; and Research and
development.

NET SALES
The components of the net sales increase were:



Net sales in 2000 totaled $2,748 million, compared with $2,116 million in 1999
and $1,690 million in 1998. In 2000, volume grew about 32.5 percent (up about 8
percent adjusted for acquisitions), with the stronger U.S. dollar reducing sales
by about 1.6 percent. In 1999, volume grew about 26 percent (up about 5 percent
adjusted for acquisitions).



Sales by segment and the change from the prior year were as follows:



TOOLS
The increase in Tools segment sales in 2000 and 1999 was primarily due to:

- - the September 1999 acquisition of DeVilbiss Air Power Company (DAPC); and
- - higher volume in our Porter-Cable/Delta business.

These increases were partially offset by:

- - volume decreases in 2000 for generators due to high inventories at
  distributors and retailers at the end of 1999 and lower storm sales in 2000;
  and
- - price decreases, primarily in our Porter-Cable/Delta business, due to price
  discounting in some markets on some products in 2000 to recover market share.

WATER
The increase in Water segment sales in 2000 and 1999 was primarily due to:

- - the August 1999 acquisition of the pressure vessel and pool and spa equipment
  businesses of Essef Corporation (Essef); and
- - increased volume in our pump and valve businesses due to higher demand.

These increases were somewhat offset by:

- - unfavorable impacts of foreign currency translation primarily in our valve and
  pressure vessel businesses.

ENCLOSURES
The increase in Enclosures segment sales in 2000 and 1999 was primarily due to:

- - higher volume due to strong demand for our products in the telecom and datacom
  markets and with industrial original equipment manufacturers; and
- - the April 1999 acquisition of WEB Tool & Manufacturing, Inc.

These increases were somewhat offset by:

- - unfavorable impacts of foreign currency translation. Excluding the impacts of
  foreign currency translation, 2000 Enclosures segment sales increased by 22
  percent over 1999.

GROSS MARGIN
Gross margin was 25.3 percent in 2000, compared with 27.7 percent in 1999 and
27.4 percent in 1998.

The 2.4 point decline in 2000 from 1999 was primarily the result of:

- - lower sales volume for generators in our DAPC business;
- - lower selling prices due to price discounting to recover market share in our
  Porter-Cable/Delta business;
- - unfavorable product mix in our Tools and Enclosures segments;
- - unfavorable inventory variances, primarily in our Porter-Cable/Delta business,
  due in part to the increases in inventory valuation reserves in the fourth
  quarter of 2000; and
- - higher costs due to challenges encountered in the setup of our new inventory
  distribution center for our Porter-Cable/Delta business in January 2000.


The slight improvement in 1999 of 0.3 points from 1998 is primarily due to:

- - higher volume in our Porter-Cable/Delta business and Enclosures segment; and
- - material cost savings as a result of supply management initiatives in 1999.

These improvements were partially offset by:

- - unfavorable product mix, primarily the result of the 1999 DAPC and Essef
  acquisitions.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (SG&A AND R&D)
SG&A and R&D was 17.1 percent of sales in both 2000 and 1999 and 17.6 percent in
1998. While the overall percentages in 2000 and 1999 were comparable, these
expenses as a percent of sales were higher in our Tools segment as spending
outpaced sales growth. We experienced higher spending in 2000 in our Tools
segment for:

- - advertising and selling expenses; and
- - one-time costs of $22 million for the establishment of additional accounts
  receivable reserves, of which, $16 million was to cover the deteriorating
  credit quality of one customer.

These increases in 2000 were offset by lower SG&A and R&D costs as a percent of
sales in our Water and Enclosures segments as sales growth outpaced spending.

RESTRUCTURING CHARGE
1999 RESTRUCTURING CHARGE
To reduce costs and improve productivity, we initiated a restructuring program
in the first quarter of 1999 to consolidate manufacturing facilities, reduce
overhead, and outsource certain product lines. Related to this, we recorded a
restructuring charge of $23.0 million in our Tools and Enclosures segments. In
the first quarter of 2000 we reevaluated the status and progress of projects
implemented in 1999 and recorded a change in estimate that reduced the
restructuring charge by $8.5 million. In addition, new projects related to the
original restructuring charge were identified and we recorded an additional $6.0
million charge. In the fourth quarter of 2000, we recorded a final change in
estimate of $0.5 million that increased the restructuring charge. As of the end
of 2000, this restructuring program was complete.

The additional charge in the first quarter of 2000 of $6.0 million related to
our Enclosures segment and consisted of:

- - the closure of a North American facility; and
- - the non-cash write-off of impaired goodwill of $3.0 million.

2000 RESTRUCTURING CHARGE
To reduce costs and improve productivity and accountability, we initiated a
fourth quarter 2000 restructuring program to decentralize corporate service
functions and reorganize our Tools segment infrastructure. As a result, we
recorded a restructuring charge of $26.8 million.



The major components of the 1999 and 2000 restructuring charges and remaining
restructuring liability follows:



Included in other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets is the
unused portion of the restructuring charge of $16.2 million, which will be used
or paid in 2001.

As a result of our 1999 restructuring charge, our workforce was reduced by
approximately 800 employees. Workforce reductions related to the 2000
restructuring charge are for about 260 employees. Employee termination benefits
consist primarily of severance and outplacement counseling fees.

Non-cash asset disposals related to the 1999 restructuring charge consisted of
equipment write-downs due to abandonment and the write-off of impaired goodwill.
Non-cash asset disposals related to the 2000 restructuring charge consisted of
the abandonment of leasehold improvements and the abandonment of internal use
software under development.

Exit costs are primarily related to contract and lease termination costs.

OPERATING INCOME
Operating income by segment and the change from the prior year were as follows:



(1) Includes restructuring charge expense of $5.4 million in 2000 and $6.3
    million in 1999.

(2) Includes restructuring charge (income) of $(1.6) million in 2000 and $16.7
    million expense in 1999.

(3) Includes restructuring charge expense of $21.0 million in 2000.

TOOLS
The decrease in Tools segment operating income in 2000 was primarily due to:

- - one-time working capital charges of $30 million for inventory and accounts
  receivable impairment;
- - lower sales volume for generators and a change in product mix in our
  Porter-Cable/Delta business; and
- - lower selling prices due to price discounting to recover market share.



The increase in Tools segment operating income in 1999 was primarily due to:

- - the acquisition of DeVilbiss Air Power Company; and
- - higher volume in our Porter-Cable/Delta business.

These 1999 increases were somewhat offset by:

- - restructuring charge expense of $6.3 million in 1999.

WATER
The increase in Water segment operating income in 2000 and 1999 was primarily
due to:

- - the acquisition of the pressure vessel and pool and spa equipment businesses
  of Essef Corporation;
- - increased volume for pumps and valves; and
- - material cost savings as a result of supply management initiatives in 1999.

These increases were somewhat offset by:

- - unfavorable impacts of foreign currency translation in 2000.

ENCLOSURES
The increase in Enclosures segment operating income in 2000 was primarily due
to:

- - higher volume due to strong demand for our products; and
- - restructuring charge expense of $16.7 million in 1999 favorably impacting
  European operating margins.

These increases were somewhat offset by:

- - unfavorable impacts of foreign currency translation in 2000.

The increase in Enclosures segment operating income in 1999 was primarily due
to:

- - higher volume due to strong demand for our products; and
- - material cost savings as a result of supply management initiatives in 1999.

These increases were offset by:

- - restructuring charge expense of $16.7 million in 1999.

NET INTEREST EXPENSE
Net interest expense was $74.9 million in 2000, compared with $43.6 in 1999 and
$19.9 million in 1998. The year-over-year increases reflect higher borrowings as
a result of the 1999 and 1998 acquisitions and higher average interest rates in
2000 and 1999.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
Our effective tax rate on continuing operations was 35.6 percent in 2000,
compared with 38 percent in 1999 and 37.2 percent in 1998. The decrease in 2000
from 1999 of 2.4 points was primarily the result of the implementation of
additional tax-planning strategies, somewhat offset by an increase in
non-deductible amortization of goodwill resulting from the 1999 acquisitions.
The increase in 1999 from 1998 of 0.8 points was primarily the result of the
increase in non-deductible amortization of goodwill resulting from the 1999
acquisitions, somewhat offset by the implementation of tax planning strategies.

We expect our effective tax rate on continuing operations to be 37 percent in
2001.



DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
After evaluating our strategic plans for the future, we elected to discontinue
our Equipment segment (Century/Lincoln and Lincoln Industrial businesses) in the
fourth quarter of 2000. Discussions with potential purchasers are currently
being held and we expect to dispose of these businesses in mid-2001.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash generated from operating activities, borrowings under credit agreements,
and access to public equity and public and private debt markets have been our
principal sources of liquidity over the past three years. These funds covered
our share repurchases, dividend payments, and investments in property, plant and
equipment and acquisitions of businesses.

OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating activities generated $184.9 million in 2000, compared with $144.3
million in 1999 and $120.9 million in 1998. The $40.6 million increase in 2000
over 1999 was primarily due to lower receivables and extending payment terms
with vendors. The $23.4 million increase in 1999 over 1998 primarily reflected a
change in the timing of payments for accounts payable and higher earnings from
continuing operations and depreciation and amortization driven by our 1999
acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable changes in
other working capital accounts.

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Capital expenditures in 2000, 1999, and 1998 were $68.0 million, $53.7 million,
and $43.3 million, respectively. The $14.3 million increase in 2000 over 1999
and the $10.4 million increase in 1999 over 1998, reflect increased investments
as a result of acquisitions. Capital expenditures as a percent of sales were 2.5
percent in both 2000 and 1999 and 2.6 percent in 1998. We anticipate capital
expenditures in 2001 to be between $85 and $90 million. The anticipated increase
in 2001 investments over 2000 is expected to be in the areas of tooling for new
product development, factory expansion, and additional machinery and equipment
for cost reductions and capacity expansion.

In 1999, we acquired DeVilbiss Air Power Company, the pressure vessel and pool
and spa equipment businesses of Essef Corporation, and WEB Tool & Manufacturing,
Inc. for $953.1 million. In 1998, we paid $50.3 million for the acquisition of
Walker Dickson Group Limited and an additional $7.4 million for final payments
related to 1997 acquisitions. The 1999 acquisitions were financed through an
equity offering and the issuance of additional debt.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
As of the end of 2000, our capital structure comprised of $108.1 million in
short-term borrowings, $805.8 million in long-term debt, and $1,010.6 million in
shareholders equity. The ratio of debt-to-total capital was 47.5 percent,
compared with 51.1 percent as of the end of 1999. Our targeted debt-to-total
capital ratio range is 30 to 40 percent. We will exceed this target from
time-to-time as needed for operational purposes and/or acquisitions.

We have committed revolving credit facilities totaling $725 million (the
Facilities), consisting of a $335 million 364-day facility that expires on
August 30, 2001, and $390 million of multi-currency facilities that expire on
September 2, 2004.

We are authorized to sell $725 million of short-term commercial paper notes with
the Facilities used as back-up liquidity to support 100 percent of commercial
paper outstanding. As of the end of 2000, we had $423.3 million of aggregate
commercial paper outstanding that matures within 60 days, of which, $315.2
million was classified as long-term and $108.1 million was classified as
short-term borrowings in the consolidated balance sheets. The $315.2 million has
been classified as long-term as we intend and have the ability to refinance such
obligations on a long-term basis. Short-term borrowings as of the end of 1999
consisted of $150.6 million in bank borrowings under the 364-day facility.
Interest rates and fees on the Facilities vary based on our debt ratings by
credit rating agencies. Aggregate borrowings on the Facilities had a
weighted-average interest rate of 6.71 percent in 2000 and 6.10 percent in 1999.
In addition to the



Facilities, we have $56.4 million of uncommitted credit facilities. As of the
end of 2000, we had no borrowings under this agreement.

Due to poor operating results in our Tools and discontinued Equipment segments,
as well as restructuring charges taken in the fourth quarter, we determined that
we could potentially be in violation of certain covenants under our Facilities.
In December 2000, we received a waiver modifying our interest coverage and
leverage ratio covenants from our bank lenders. Subsequent to year-end, we
amended our Facility agreements to modify these ratios through September 30,
2001. We will be required to meet our original interest coverage and leverage
ratios as of the end of 2001.

Our debt agreements contain certain financial covenants that restrict the amount
paid for dividends and certain other payments, and require us to maintain
certain financial ratios and a minimum net worth. Under the most restrictive
covenants, $149.7 million of retained earnings were restricted as of the end of
2000. We were in compliance with all covenants, as modified.

In December 2000, the credit rating agencies announced they were reviewing our
ratings for possible downgrade. Since that announcement, we have been unable to
access the commercial paper markets and have been refinancing maturing
commercial paper with borrowings under the revolving credit facilities. If we
continue to be unable to access the commercial paper markets or our credit
ratings are lowered, our borrowing costs will increase. We have sufficient
liquidity under the Facilities to refinance all outstanding commercial paper.

Dividends paid in 2000 were $32.0 million, compared with $28.2 million in 1999
and $27.3 million in 1998. The year-over-year increases reflect higher
outstanding shares as a result of our 1999 secondary stock offering and an
increase in our quarterly dividend rate to $0.17 per share in the third quarter
of 2000 from $0.16 per share.

In addition to measuring our cash flow generation or usage based upon operating,
investing, and financing classifications included in the consolidated statements
of cash flows, we also measure our free cash flow. We define free cash flow as
cash flow from operating activities less capital expenditures, including both
continuing and discontinued operations. We generated free cash flow of $116.9
million in 2000, compared with $90.6 million in 1999 and $77.5 million in 1998.
We intend to increase our free cash flow by reducing inventories, improving
collection of receivables, and working with suppliers to increase payment terms.
We also have changed our management incentive targets to include more emphasis
on improving free cash flow.

We believe cash generated from operating activities, together with credit
available under committed and uncommitted facilities and our current cash
position will provide adequate short-term and long-term liquidity.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

ENVIRONMENTAL
Under current laws and regulations, our obligations relating to environmental
matters are not expected to have a material impact on our operations, financial
condition, or operating results. Some subsidiaries face remediation of soil and
groundwater as a result of predecessors' or their own previous disposal
practices. In addition, our subsidiaries have been named as potentially
responsible parties at a small number of Superfund or other sites being studied
or remediated. Generally, the affected business has been deemed to be a de
minimis defendant or its share of remediation costs has not been material. We
contractually retained certain obligations pertaining to environmental issues of
discontinued paper businesses and the divested sporting ammunition business.
Costs and capital expenditures related to environmental obligations were not
material to our operations in the recent past and are not anticipated to be
material in 2001.

We engage environmental professionals to perform periodic audits of our
facilities and to assist us in complying with the various environmental laws and
regulations faced by our businesses. For purposes of maintaining appropriate
reserves against liabilities associated with environmental issues, whether
involving on- or off-site locations, we review each individual site, taking into
consideration the number of parties



involved with the site, the joint and several liability imposed by certain
environmental laws, the expected level of contributions of the other parties,
the nature and quantities of wastes involved, the expected method and extent of
remediation, the estimated professional expenses involved, and the time period
over which any costs would be incurred. Based on this evaluation, reserves are
established when loss amounts are probable and reasonably estimable. Insurance
recoveries are recorded only when claims for recovery are settled.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements (SAB 101), which
among other guidance, clarified the Staff's views on various revenue recognition
and reporting matters. As a result, we changed our method of accounting for
certain sales transactions. Historically, we recognized revenue upon shipment of
products to the customer because, even though some products were shipped FOB
destination, we used a common carrier and thus we gave up substantially all the
risks of ownership. Under the new accounting method adopted retroactive to
January 1, 2000, we now recognize revenue upon delivery of products to the
customer, which is when title passes. The cumulative effect of the change on
prior years resulted in a minor non-cash charge to income of $1.2 million (net
of income taxes of $0.7 million) for the year ended December 31, 2000. The net
effect of the change on the year ended December 31, 2000, was to increase income
before the cumulative effect of the accounting change by $0.8 million ($0.02 per
share). The pro forma amounts presented in the consolidated statements of income
were calculated assuming the accounting change was made retroactively to prior
periods.

For the three months ended March 31, 2000, we recognized $7.4 million in revenue
that was included in the cumulative effect adjustment as of January 1, 2000. The
effect of the revenue in the first quarter was to increase income by $1.2
million (after reduction for income taxes of $0.7 million).

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 133), is effective for all fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2000. SFAS 133, as amended and interpreted, establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities.
All derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, will be
required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. If the derivative is
designated as a fair-value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the
derivative and the hedged item will be recognized in earnings. If the derivative
is designated in a cash-flow hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative
will be recorded in other comprehensive incomes (OCI) and will be recognized in
the consolidated statements of income when the hedged item affects earnings.
SFAS 133 defines new requirements for designation and documentation of hedging
relationships as well as ongoing effectiveness assessments in order to use hedge
accounting. For a derivative that is not designated as or does not qualify as a
hedge, changes in fair value will be recognized in earnings.

On January 1, 2001, we adopted SFAS 133 and recorded a transition adjustment
that increased OCI by $6.7 million and will be reported as a cumulative effect
of accounting change in comprehensive income. The transition adjustment relates
to our hedging activities through December 31, 2000. Prior to the application of
SFAS 133, financial instruments designated as cash-flow hedges were not recorded
in the financial statements, but cash flows from such contracts were recorded as
adjustments to earnings as the hedged items effected earnings.

EURO CONVERSION
A new currency, the Euro, was introduced in Europe on January 1, 1999. Of the
fifteen member countries of the European Union, eleven adopted the Euro as their
legal currency on that date. Fixed conversion rates between the national
currencies of these eleven countries and the Euro were established on that date.
The national currencies are scheduled to remain legal tender as denominations of
the Euro during the transition period ending December 31, 2001. During this
transition period, parties may settle transactions using either the Euro or a
participating country's national currency. At the current time, we do not
believe that the conversion to the Euro will have a material impact on our
business or financial condition.



ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

MARKET RISK
We are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates,
foreign currency rates and prices of raw materials and sourced components.
Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates
and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We use
derivative financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of some of
these risks. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for
trading purposes.

INTEREST RATE RISK
We are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of our
borrowing activities used to fund operations. We utilize committed floating rate
credit facilities to fund a portion of our operations. Interest rates on $74.5
million of floating rate debt is swapped to fixed rates through agreements with
financial institutions. The table below summarizes our floating and fixed rate
debt obligations and interest rate swap agreements as of December 31, 2000 along
with interest rates for the swapped portion and fair value of the swap
agreement. Weighted-average variable rates are based on implied forward rates in
the yield curve at December 31, 2000, plus our borrowing spread.



FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK
We hedge our net investment in certain of our foreign subsidiaries by borrowing
in those subsidiaries' functional currencies. We have entered into foreign
currency swap agreements with major financial institutions to hedge firm foreign
currency commitments. As of December 31, 2000, the following table presents
principal cash flows of our open currency swap agreements:



(1) Foreign exchange information is presented in local currency by maturity,
    however, the fair value is presented in U.S. dollars



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

We are responsible for the integrity and objectivity of the financial
information presented in this report. The financial statements have been
prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States and include certain amounts based on our best estimates and
judgment.

We are also responsible for establishing and maintaining our accounting systems
and related internal controls, which are designed to provide reasonable
assurance that assets are safeguarded and transactions are properly recorded.
These systems and controls are reviewed by the internal auditors. In addition,
our code of conduct states that our affairs are to be conducted under the
highest ethical standards.

The independent auditors provide an independent review of the financial
statements and the fairness of the information presented therein. The Audit and
Finance Committee of the Board of Directors, composed solely of outside
directors, meets regularly with us, our internal auditors and our independent
auditors to review audit activities, internal controls, and other accounting,
reporting, and financial matters. Both the independent auditors and internal
auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit and Finance Committee.



St. Paul, Minnesota
February 16, 2001



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF PENTAIR, INC.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pentair, Inc.
and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14. These
financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility
of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
financial statements and the financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2000
and 1999, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also,
in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly
in all material respects the information set forth therein.

Deloitte & Touche LLP

/s/DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota
February 16, 2001



                         PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                         PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                         PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                         PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY


          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

FISCAL YEAR
Our fiscal year ends on December 31. Additionally, we report our interim
quarterly periods on a 13-week basis ending on a Saturday.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company
and all significant subsidiaries. Significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated. Certain balances have been reclassified to
conform to the 2000 presentation.

USE OF ESTIMATES
The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our
consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could
differ from those estimates.

CASH EQUIVALENTS
We consider highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months
or less to be cash equivalents.

INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventories of domestic
subsidiaries are generally determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.
Inventories of foreign subsidiaries are determined by the first-in, first-out
(FIFO) and moving average methods.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization
is computed for financial reporting purposes principally using the straight-line
method over the following estimated useful lives:



GOODWILL
Goodwill represents the difference between the purchase price of acquired
businesses and the fair value of their net assets when accounted for by the
purchase method. We amortize goodwill evenly over periods ranging from 25 to 40
years. Accumulated amortization as of the end of 2000 and 1999 was $114.4
million and $80.2 million, respectively.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS
We review long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. If impairment indicators are present and the estimated future
undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets and any
related goodwill, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair value as
measured by the discounted cash flows. Losses on long-lived assets to be
disposed of are based upon estimated selling prices and reduced for the cost to
sell.

INCOME TAXES
Deferred taxes are recognized for the estimated taxes ultimately payable or
recoverable based on enacted tax law. Changes in enacted tax rates are reflected
in the tax provision as they occur.


PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

REVENUE RECOGNITION, SALES RETURNS AND WARRANTY COSTS
We recognize revenue when the earnings process is complete, evidenced by an
agreement between Pentair and the customer, there has been delivery and
acceptance, collectibility is probable, and pricing is fixed and determinable.
If significant obligations remain after delivery, revenue is deferred until such
obligations are fulfilled. Provisions for sales returns and warranty costs are
recorded at the time of sale based on historical information and current trends.

FREIGHT EXPENSE
Distribution and freight expenses for products shipped to customers are included
in cost of goods sold, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force No. 00-10,
Accounting for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs (EITF 00-10). Distribution
expense was previously reported in selling, general and administrative, while
outbound freight expense was previously reported as a reduction of gross sales.
Prior period expenses have also been reclassified to cost of goods sold, which
had no effect on previously reported net income.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at the
current exchange rate as of the balance sheet date, and income statement amounts
are translated at the average monthly exchange rate. Translation adjustments
resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates are recorded in comprehensive
income.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
We use derivative financial instruments for the purpose of hedging interest rate
and currency exposures, which exist as part of ongoing business operations. All
hedging instruments are designated and effective as hedges, in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. Instruments that do not qualify for
hedge accounting are marked-to-market with changes recognized in current
earnings. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading
purposes.

     INTEREST RATE SWAP AND CAP AGREEMENTS
     We use interest rate swap and cap agreements to reduce interest rate
     exposure. Interest rate contracts designated and effective as a hedge of
     underlying debt obligations were not marked-to-market. Amounts paid or
     received on agreements are recognized as adjustments to interest expense
     over the life of the underlying debt agreement. Gains and losses realized
     upon the settlement of such contracts are deferred and amortized to
     interest expense over the remaining life of the debt instrument or are
     recognized immediately if the underlying instrument is settled. Open
     interest rate contracts are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain
     effective as hedges of interest rate exposure.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY SWAP AGREEMENTS
     We enter into foreign currency swap agreements to hedge transactions
     denominated in foreign currencies in order to reduce the currency risk
     associated with fluctuating exchange rates. Realized and unrealized gains
     and losses from instruments qualifying as hedges were recognized as part of
     the cost basis of the underlying transaction.

     We hedge our net investment in certain of our foreign subsidiaries by
     borrowing in those subsidiaries' functional currencies. Gains and losses on
     contracts designated as hedges of net investments in foreign subsidiaries
     are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (SFAS 123), we elected to account for
our stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed by
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees (APB 25).

The exercise price of stock options equals the market price on the date of
grant. In general, there is no recorded compensation expense related to stock
options.

PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

INSURANCE SUBSIDIARY
We insure general and product liability, product recall, workers' compensation,
and automobile liability risks through our wholly owned insurance subsidiary.
Reserves for policy claims are established based on actuarial projections of
ultimate losses. As of the end of 2000 and 1999, reserves for policy claims were
$26.2 million ($10.0 million included in accrued product claims and warranties
and $16.2 million included in other noncurrent liabilities) and $28.9 million
($6.0 million included in accrued product claims and warranties and $22.9
million included in other noncurrent liabilities).

EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net income, after deducting
preferred stock dividends, by the weighted-average number of common shares
outstanding. Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net income,
after adjusting for the tax benefits on deductible ESOP dividends, by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding, including the dilutive
effects of options, restricted stock and assumed conversion of preferred stock.
Unless otherwise noted, references are to diluted earnings per share.

Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated using the following:




PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements (SAB 101), which
among other guidance, clarified the Staff's views on various revenue recognition
and reporting matters. As a result, we changed our method of accounting for
certain sales transactions. Historically, we recognized revenue upon shipment of
products to the customer because, even though some products were shipped FOB
destination, we used a common carrier and thus we gave up substantially all the
risks of ownership. Under the new accounting method adopted retroactive to
January 1, 2000, we now recognize revenue upon delivery of products to the
customer, which is when title passes. The cumulative effect of the change on
prior years resulted in a minor non-cash charge to income of $1.2 million (net
of income taxes of $0.7 million) for the year ended December 31, 2000. The net
effect of the change on the year ended December 31, 2000, was to increase income
before the cumulative effect of the accounting change by $0.8 million ($0.02 per
share). The pro forma amounts presented in the consolidated statements of income
were calculated assuming the accounting change was made retroactively to prior
periods.

For the three months ended March 31, 2000, we recognized $7.4 million in revenue
that was included in the cumulative effect adjustment as of January 1, 2000. The
effect of the revenue in the first quarter was to increase income by $1.2
million (after reduction for income taxes of $0.7 million).

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities, (SFAS 133) is effective for all fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2000. SFAS 133, as amended and interpreted, establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities.
All derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, will be
required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. If the derivative is
designated as a fair-value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the
derivative and the hedged item will be recognized in earnings. If the derivative
is designated in a cash-flow hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative
will be recorded in other comprehensive incomes (OCI) and will be recognized in
the consolidated statements of income when the hedged item affects earnings.
SFAS 133 defines new requirements for designation and documentation of hedging
relationships as well as ongoing effectiveness assessments in order to use hedge
accounting. For a derivative that is not designated as or does not qualify as a
hedge, changes in fair value will be recognized in earnings.

On January 1, 2001, we adopted SFAS 133 and recorded a transition adjustment
that increased OCI by $6.7 million and will be reported as a cumulative effect
of accounting change in comprehensive income. The transition adjustment relates
to our hedging activities through December 31, 2000. Prior to the application of
SFAS 133, financial instruments designated as cash-flow hedges were not recorded
in the financial statements, but cash flows from such contracts were recorded as
adjustments to earnings as the hedged items effected earnings.

2. RESTRUCTURING CHARGE

1999 RESTRUCTURING CHARGE
To reduce costs and improve productivity, we initiated a restructuring program
in the first quarter of 1999 to consolidate manufacturing facilities, reduce
overhead and outsource certain product lines. Related to this, we recorded a
restructuring charge of $23.0 million in our Tools and Enclosures segments. In
the first quarter of 2000 we reevaluated the status and progress of projects
implemented in 1999 and recorded a change in estimate that reduced the
restructuring charge by $8.5 million. In addition, new projects related to the
original restructuring charge were identified and we recorded an additional $6.0
million charge. In the fourth quarter of 2000, we recorded a final change in
estimate of $0.5 million that increased the restructuring charge. As of the end
of 2000, this restructuring program was complete.


PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The additional charge in the first quarter of 2000 of $6.0 million related to
our Enclosures segment and consisted of:

- - the closure of a North American facility; and
- - the non-cash write-off of impaired goodwill of $3.0 million.

2000 RESTRUCTURING CHARGE
To reduce costs, improve productivity and accountability, we initiated a fourth
quarter 2000 restructuring program to decentralize corporate service functions
and reorganize our Tools segment infrastructure. As a result, we recorded a
restructuring charge of $26.8 million.

The major components of the 1999 and 2000 restructuring charges and remaining
restructuring liability follows:



Included in other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets is the
unused portion of the restructuring charge of $16.2 million, which will be used
or paid in 2001.

As a result of our 1999 restructuring charge, our workforce was reduced by
approximately 800 employees. Workforce reductions related to the 2000
restructuring charge are for about 260 employees. Employee termination benefits
consist primarily of severance and outplacement counseling fees.

Non-cash asset disposals related to the 1999 restructuring charge consisted of
equipment write-downs due to abandonment and the write-off of impaired goodwill.
Non-cash asset disposals related to the 2000 restructuring charge consisted of
the abandonment of leasehold improvements and the abandonment of internal use
software under development.

Exit costs are primarily related to contract and lease termination costs.

3. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
After evaluating our strategic plans for the future, we elected to discontinue
our Equipment segment (Century/Lincoln and Lincoln Industrial businesses) in the
fourth quarter of 2000. Discussions with potential purchasers are currently
being held and we expect to dispose of these businesses in mid-2001.

Our financial statements have been restated to reflect the Equipment segment as
a discontinued operation for all periods presented. Operating results of the
discontinued Equipment segment are summarized below. The amounts exclude general
corporate overhead previously allocated to the Equipment segment. The amounts
include an allocation of interest based on a ratio of the net assets of the
discontinued operations


PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

to the total net assets of Pentair. The results for 2000 reflect activity
through December 2000 (the measurement date); results for 1999 and 1998 reflect
activity for each entire year.



Net assets of the discontinued Equipment segment consisted of the following:



Included within the net assets of the discontinued Equipment segment at December
31, 1999, was a restructuring liability of $11.0 million. During 2000, an
additional $0.8 million was incurred due to a change in estimate and $11.8
million was utilized in 2000, with no liability remaining at December 31, 2000.
The $11.8 million utilization consisted of $6.6 million in cash and $5.2 million
non-cash.

4. ACQUISITIONS
All of the following acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and,
accordingly, the respective purchase prices were allocated to the respective
assets and liabilities based upon their estimated fair values as of the
acquisition date. Operating results of businesses acquired have been included in
the consolidated statements of income from the respective acquisition dates
forward.

A summary of our purchase transactions for the past three years is included in
the following table (In thousands):




PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

5. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS

Components of accumulated other comprehensive loss consist of the following:



6. INVENTORIES

Inventories were comprised of:



If all inventories were valued at FIFO as of the end of 2000 and 1999,
inventories would have been $396.9 million and $357.5 million, respectively.

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

The major categories of property, plant and equipment follow:



8. DEBT

CREDIT FACILITIES
We have committed revolving credit facilities totaling $725 million (the
Facilities), consisting of a $335 million 364-day facility that expires on
August 30, 2001, and $390 million of multi-currency facilities that expire on
September 2, 2004.

We are authorized to sell $725 million of short-term commercial paper notes with
the Facilities used as back-up liquidity to support 100 percent of commercial
paper outstanding. As of the end of 2000, we had $423.3 million of aggregate
commercial paper outstanding that matures within 60 days, of which, $315.2
million was classified as long-term and $108.1 million was classified as
short-term borrowings in the consolidated balance sheets. The $315.2 million has
been classified as long-term as we intend and have the ability to refinance such
obligations on a long-term basis. Short-term borrowings as of the end of 1999
consisted of $150.6 million in bank borrowings under the 364-day facility.
Interest rates and fees on the Facilities vary based on our debt ratings by
credit rating agencies. Aggregate borrowings on the Facilities had a
weighted-average interest rate of 6.71 percent in 2000 and 6.10 percent in 1999.
In addition to the Facilities, we have $56.4 million of uncommitted credit
facilities. As of the end of 2000, we had no borrowings under this agreement.


PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Due to poor operating results in our Tools and discontinued Equipment segments
as well as restructuring charges taken in the fourth quarter, we determined that
we could potentially be in violation of certain covenants under our Facilities.
In December 2000, we received a waiver modifying our interest coverage and
leverage ratio covenants from our bank lenders. Subsequent to year-end, we
amended our Facility agreements to modify these ratios through September 30,
2001. We will be required to meet our original interest coverage and leverage
ratios as of the end of 2001.

Our debt agreements contain certain financial covenants that restrict the amount
paid for dividends and certain other payments, and require us to maintain
certain financial ratios and a minimum net worth. Under the most restrictive
covenants, $149.7 million of retained earnings were restricted as of the end of
2000. We were in compliance with all covenants, as modified.

In December 2000, the credit rating agencies announced they were reviewing our
ratings for possible downgrade. Since that announcement, we have been unable to
access the commercial paper markets and have been refinancing maturing
commercial paper with borrowings under the revolving credit facilities. If we
continue to be unable to access the commercial paper markets or our credit
ratings are lowered, our borrowing costs will increase. We have sufficient
liquidity under the Facilities to refinance all outstanding commercial paper.

In October 1999, we issued $250 million of 7.85 percent Senior notes due October
2009. The proceeds were used to repay other outstanding debt.

Long-term debt and the average interest rate on debt outstanding as of December
31, is summarized as follows:



Long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2000 matures as follows:



9. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

INTEREST RATE SWAP AND CAP AGREEMENTS
We have entered into interest rate swap agreements with major financial
institutions to exchange variable rate interest payment obligations for fixed
rate obligations without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts in
order to manage interest rate exposures. Net payments or receipts under the
agreements are recorded as adjustments to interest expense and credit risk is
considered remote.

As of the end of 2000, we had swap agreements outstanding with an aggregate
notional amount of $74.5 million that expire in various amounts through June
2005. The swap agreements have a fixed interest rate of 6.31 percent and an
average remaining maturity of 3 years. The net fair value of our swap agreements
as of the end of 2000 was a net liability of $0.8 million.


PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

As of the end of 2000, we had a 35 million Deutschemark interest rate cap
agreement outstanding that expires in November 2001, with a capped interest rate
of 7.29 percent DEM-LIBOR.

FOREIGN CURRENCY SWAP AGREEMENTS
We have entered into foreign currency swap agreements with major financial
institutions to hedge firm foreign currency commitments. The original term of
the currency swap agreements ranged from 3 to 6 years and mature on October 1,
2003. The notional amounts in the table below serve solely as a basis for the
calculation of interest payments which are exchanged over the life of the swap
transaction and are equal to the amount of foreign currency or dollar principal
exchanged at maturity. Gains or losses are deferred and recognized in income as
part of the underlying transaction. Deferred unrealized gains, based on
dealer-quoted prices, are as follows:



FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The recorded amounts and estimated fair values of financial instruments,
including derivative financial instruments were as follows:



The following methods were used to estimate the fair values of each class of
financial instrument:

- - short-term financial instruments (cash and cash equivalents, accounts and
  notes receivable, accounts and notes payable, and short-term
  borrowings) -- recorded amount approximates fair value because of the short
  maturity period;
- - long-term debt, including current maturities -- fair value is based on market
  quotes available for issuance of debt with similar terms;
- - interest rate swap and cap agreements -- fair value is based on market or
  dealer quotes; and
- - currency swap -- fair value is based on market or dealer quotes.

10. INCOME TAXES

Income from continuing operations before income taxes consisted of the
following:




PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The provision for income taxes from continuing operations consisted of the
following:



Reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate
for continuing operations follows:



Deferred taxes arise because of different treatment between financial statement
accounting and tax accounting, known as "temporary differences." We record the
tax effect of these temporary differences as "deferred tax assets" (generally
items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future periods) and
"deferred tax liabilities" (generally items that we received a tax deduction
for, but not yet been recorded in the consolidated statements of income).

The tax effects of the major items recorded as deferred tax assets and
liabilities are:




PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

11. BENEFIT PLANS

PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
We have various non-contributory defined-benefit pension plans that cover nearly
all U.S. employees and many employees outside the United States. Pension
benefits are based principally on an employee's years of service and/or
compensation levels near retirement. Our pension funding policy is to deposit
with independent trustees amounts as required by applicable law. In addition, we
also provide certain postretirement health care and life insurance benefits for
nearly all retirees. Generally, the postretirement health care and life
insurance plans require contributions from retirees.

The weighted-average assumptions used for these plans consisted of:



Components of the net periodic benefit cost are as follows:




PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The following tables present reconciliations of the benefit obligation of the
plans, the plan assets of the pension plans, and the funded status of the plans:



The components in the consolidated balance sheets consist of:



Plan assets consist primarily of listed stocks and bonds as well as cash and
short-term investments. Our common stock accounted for approximately 7 percent
and 10 percent of plan assets as of the end of 2000 and 1999, respectively.


PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Pension plans with obligations in excess of plan assets were as follows:



A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would
have the following effects:



Health care cost trend rate was 9.62 percent in 2000 and assumed
to gradually decline to 6 percent in 2019.

SAVINGS PLAN
We have a 401(k) plan (the plan) with an employee stock ownership (ESOP) bonus
component, which covers certain union and nearly all-nonunion U.S. employees who
meet certain age requirements. Under the plan, eligible U.S. employees may
voluntarily contribute a percentage of their eligible compensation. Matching
contributions are made to employees who meet certain eligibility and service
requirements. Our matching contribution is based on our financial performance
and ranges from 30 percent to 90 percent of eligible employee contributions,
limited to 4 percent of compensation contributed by employees. Beginning in
1999, our annual matching contribution was in the form of cash. Prior to 1999,
matching contributions were made in the form of Pentair 8% Callable Cumulative
Voting Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1990, and were allocated to eligible
employees based on a fixed acquisition price of $30.25 per share.

In addition to the matching contribution, all employees who meet certain service
requirements receive a discretionary ESOP contribution. In 2000 and 1999, the
discretionary contribution was equal to 1.5 percent of annual eligible
compensation and was 1 percent in 1998.

Our combined contributions to the 401(k) and ESOP were $11.9 million, $9.2
million, and $7.1 million in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

12. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

AUTHORIZED SHARES
We may issue up to 250 million shares of common stock. Our Board of Directors
may designate up to 15 million of those shares as preferred stock.

COMMON SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS
We have a ten-year Share Rights Agreement dated July 31, 1995. Under this
agreement, each outstanding share of our common stock has one common share
purchase right attached to it and entitle the holder to purchase one share of
our common stock, at the current price of $80 per share, subject to adjustment.
However, these rights are not exercisable unless certain change-in-control
events transpire, such as a person acquiring or obtaining the right to acquire
beneficial ownership of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock.

The rights are redeemable by us for $0.01 per right until ten business days
after certain defined change-in-control events transpire, or at any time prior
to the expiration of the rights.


PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

SHARE REPURCHASES
In December 1999, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
400,000 shares of our common stock in open market or negotiated transactions.

13. STOCK PLANS

OMNIBUS STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
In April 1996, the Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) was approved. The
Plan authorizes the issuance of additional shares of our common stock and
extends through February 2006. The Plan allows for the granting of:

- -  nonqualified stock options;
- -  incentive stock options;
- -  restricted stock;
- -  rights to restricted stock;
- -  incentive compensation units (ICUs);
- -  stock appreciation rights;
- -  performance shares; and
- -  performance units.

The Plan is administered by our Compensation and Human Resources Committee (the
Committee), which is made up of members of our Board of Directors. Employees
eligible to receive awards under the Plan are managerial, administrative, or
other key employees who are in a position to make a material contribution to the
continued profitable growth and long-term success of Pentair. The Committee has
the authority to select the recipients of awards, determine the type and size of
awards, establish certain terms and conditions of award grants, and take certain
other actions as permitted under the Plan. The Plan provides that no more than
20 percent of the total shares available for issuance under the Plan may be used
to make awards other than stock options and limits the Committee's authority to
reprice awards or to cancel and reissue awards at lower prices.

       INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS
       We may grant stock options to any eligible employee with an exercise
       price equal to 100 percent of the market value of the shares on the dates
       the options were granted. Options are generally exercisable after five
       years or less, subject to continuous employment and certain other
       conditions and have expiration dates of five to ten years after the grant
       date.

       RESTRICTED STOCK, RIGHTS TO RESTRICTED STOCK AND ICUS
       Under the Plan, eligible employees are awarded restricted shares or
       rights to restricted shares (awards) of our common stock and ICUs.
       Restrictions on awards and ICUs generally expire from three to five years
       after issuance, subject to continuous employment and certain other
       conditions. Restricted stock awards are recorded at market value on the
       date of the grant as unearned compensation. Unearned compensation is
       shown as a reduction of shareholders' equity in our consolidated
       financial statements and is being amortized to expense over the
       restriction period. The value of ICUs is based on a matrix, which takes
       into account growth in operating income and return on invested capital.
       Annual compensation expense for the value of restricted stock and ICUs
       was $0.1 million in 2000, $7.3 million in 1999 and $6.1 million in 1998.

OUTSIDE DIRECTORS NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION PLAN
Nonqualified stock options are granted to outside directors under the Outside
Directors Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (the Directors Plan) with an exercise
price equal to 100 percent of the market value of the shares on the dates the
options were granted. Options generally expire after five years, but may expire
up to ten years from the date of grant. The Directors Plan extends to January
2008.


PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

STOCK OPTIONS
The following table summarizes stock option activity under all plans:



(1) Weighted average

The following table summarizes information concerning stock options outstanding
as of the end of 2000 under all plans:



(1) Weighted average

We apply APB 25 and related interpretations in accounting for employee stock
options. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized related to
stock options. The following table summarizes results as if we had recorded
compensation expense for our stock option plans under SFAS 123.




PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The weighted-average fair value of options granted in 2000, 1999 and 1998 was
$10.93, $12.20 and $9.44 per option, respectively. We estimated the fair values
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, modified for dividends and using
the following assumptions:



The expected life was determined separately for each plan due to varying
exercise patterns. The fair value of options is amortized to expense over a
three-year option-vesting period in determining the pro forma impact.

14. BUSINESS SEGMENTS

We classify our continuing operations into the following business segments:

- - TOOLS -- which manufactures and markets tool products positioned at the
  high-end of the market and targets professionals and upscale hobbyists. Tools
  segment products include woodworking machinery, portable power tools,
  compressors, generators, and pressure washers.

- - WATER -- which manufactures and markets essential products for the transport
  and treatment of water, wastewater and fluids. Water segment products include
  water and wastewater pumps, control valves, pumps and pumping stations for
  thick fluid transfer applications, storage tanks, filtration systems, and pool
  and spa accessories.

- - ENCLOSURES -- which designs, manufactures, and markets customized and standard
  metal and composite enclosures that house and protect sensitive controls and
  components for markets that include data communications, networking,
  telecommunications, automotive, and general electronics. Products include
  metallic and composite enclosures, cabinets, cases, subracks, thermal
  management backplanes and power supplies.

- - OTHER -- is primarily composed of corporate expenses, our insurance
  subsidiary, intermediate finance companies, divested operations, discontinued
  operations, and intercompany eliminations.

The accounting policies of our operating segments are the same as those
described in the summary of significant accounting policies. We evaluate
performance based on the operating income of the segment and use a variety of
ratios to measure performance.


PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Financial information by reportable business segment is included in the
following summary:







OPERATING INCOME

Tools segment operating income includes:

- - restructuring charge expense of $5.4 million in 2000 and $6.3 million expense
  in 1999; and
- - one-time working capital charges of $30 million in 2000 to establish
  additional accounts receivable ($22 million) and inventory valuation ($8
  million) reserves.

Enclosures segment operating income includes:

- - restructuring charge income of $(1.6) million in 2000 and $16.7 million
  expense in 1999.

Other segment operating income includes:

- - restructuring charge expense of $21.0 million in 2000.

The following table presents certain geographic information:



Net sales are based on the location in which the sale originated. Long-lived
assets include property, plant and equipment, and goodwill, net of related
depreciation and amortization.


PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

We sell our products through various distribution channels including home
centers and retail chains. In 2000, sales to The Home Depot, a major customer of
our Tools segment, accounted for approximately 10.5 percent of total net sales.
In addition, three customers accounted for about 58 percent of our Tools segment
net sales, which if lost, would have a material adverse effect on the segment.

15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LEASE COMMITMENTS
Rental expense under operating leases was $35.4 million, $25.0 million and $20.7
million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The minimum lease commitments
under non-cancelable operating leases is as follows:



Environmental
Under current laws and regulations, our obligations relating to environmental
matters are not expected to have a material impact on our operations, financial
condition or operating results. Some subsidiaries face remediation of soil and
groundwater as a result of predecessors' or their own previous disposal
practices. In addition, our subsidiaries have been named as potentially
responsible parties at a small number of Superfund or other sites being studied
or remediated. Generally, the affected business has been deemed to be a de
minimis defendant or its share of remediation costs has not been material. We
contractually retained certain obligations pertaining to environmental issues of
discontinued paper businesses and the divested sporting ammunition business
Costs and capital expenditures related to environmental obligations were not
material to our operations in the recent past and are not anticipated to be
material in 2001.

We engage environmental professionals to perform periodic audits of our
facilities and to assist us in complying with the various environmental laws and
regulations faced by our businesses. For purposes of maintaining appropriate
reserves against liabilities associated with environmental issues, whether
involving on- or off-site locations, we review each individual site, taking into
consideration the number of parties involved with the site, the joint and
several liability imposed by certain environmental laws, the expected level of
contributions of the other parties, the nature and quantities of wastes
involved, the expected method and extent of remediation, the estimated
professional expenses involved and the time period over which any costs would be
incurred. Based on this evaluation, reserves are established when loss amounts
are probable and reasonably estimable. Insurance recoveries are recorded only
when claims for recovery are settled.

LITIGATION
We are occasionally a party to litigation arising in the normal course of
business. We regularly analyze current information and, as necessary, provide
accruals for probable liabilities on the eventual disposition of these matters.
We believe the effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial
position, if any, for the disposition of all currently pending matters will not
be material.


PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

16. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)



The above quarterly financial information does not agree to previously filed
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as:

- - all financial information reflects our Equipment segment (Century/Lincoln and
  Lincoln Industrial businesses) as discontinued operations; and
- - we have restated all financial information for the adoption of EITF 00-10.

In addition, as restated and pro forma quarterly financial information reflects
the impact of the adoption of SAB 101 on January 1.

(1) First quarter 2000 net income reflects pre-tax restructuring charge (income)
    of $(2.5) million, or $(0.03) per share, and fourth quarter net income
    reflects pre-tax restructuring charge expense of $27.3, or $0.36 per share.

(2) Second quarter 2000 net income reflects a one-time pre-tax cost to establish
    an additional $5.0 million in accounts receivable reserves. Fourth quarter
    2000 net income reflects one-time pre-tax costs to establish an additional
    $25.0 million for accounts receivable ($17.0 million) and inventory
    valuation ($8.0 million) reserves.

(3) First quarter 1999 net income reflects pre-tax restructuring charge expense
    of $23.0 million, or $0.34 per share.

(4) Amounts may not total to the annual earnings per share because each quarter
    and the year are calculated separately based on basic and diluted weighted
    average common shares outstanding during that period.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

NONE.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information required under this item with respect to Directors is contained in
our Notice of Annual Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement under the
captions "Election of Directors" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance" and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information required under this item is contained in our Notice of Annual
Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement under the captions "Election of
Directors" and "Executive Compensation" and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information required under this item is contained in our Notice of Annual
Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement under the caption "Security
Ownership of Management and Beneficial Ownership" and is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

NONE.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K











                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 19, 2001.

                                        PENTAIR, INC.

                                        By /s/ David D. Harrison
                                           -------------------------------------
                                                  David D. Harrison
                                                  Executive Vice President and
                                                  Chief Financial Officer

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned directors of Pentair, Inc.,
a Minnesota corporation, hereby constitute and appoint Louis L. Ainsworth
his/her attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for the
purpose of signing on his/her behalf as a director of Pentair, Inc. the Annual
Report on Form 10-K, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within the next sixty days, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and
other supporting documents, with the Commission, granting unto such
attorney-in-fact, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts
necessary or incidental to the performance and execution of the powers herein
expressly granted.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on March 19, 2001 in the
capacities indicated.







SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
Pentair, Inc. and subsidiaries



(1) Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.

(2) Result of acquisitions.


