
10-K


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
            COMMISSION
     Washington, D. C.  20549
                                                    
            FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
     
     X    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
     OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
     OF 1934
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                 
                OR

  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from __________________ to
____________________

Commission File No. 0-4689

              PENTAIR, INC.  
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

 Minnesota           
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

  41-0907434
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

1500 County Road B2 West, Suite 400, Saint Paul,
Minnesota             55113-3105   
(Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)
                 
          (612) 636-7920 
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
                 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

    1)   Common Stock, Par Value $.16  per share
    2)   Rights                                                           

         (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   X    No 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.        

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the Registrant on February 21, 1995 was
$730 million.  For purposes of this calculation, all shares
held by officers and directors of the Registrant and by the
trustees of employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs) and
pension plans of the Registrant and subsidiaries were
deemed to be shares held by affiliates.

The number of shares outstanding of Registrant's only class
of common stock on February 21, 1995 was 18,316,470.



DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The following portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders
for the year ended December 31, 1994 and Proxy
Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are
incorporated by reference as the Item of this Form 10-K
indicated.

Part of Form 10-K                 Portion of Annual Report

Part I, Item 1.  Business -       Pages 29 and 53: 
Financial information             Business Segment  
 about industry segments,         Information;
foreign operations, research      Page 41:  Research and
and development and               Development;
 environmental matters.           Page 33: Environmental
                                  Matters and Page 44: 
                                  Commitments and
                                  Contingencies-(Note 9)

Part II, Item 5.  Market for      Page 54:  Pentair Stock
Registrant's Common Equity        Data, Price Range and
and Related Stockholder           Dividends of 
Matters.                          Common Stock.

Part II, Item 6.  Selected        Page 55: Selected 
Financial Data.                   Financial Data - 10 Year
                                  Summary.

Part II, Item 7.  Management's    Pages 26-33:  
 Discussion and Analysis of       Management's 
Financial Condition and           Discussion and Analysis.
Results of Operations.

Part II, Item 8.                  Pages 34-53: 
Financial                         Consolidated Statement 
 Statements and                   of Income, Balance
Supplementary Data.               Sheet and Statement of
                                  Cash Flows, related
                                  Notes, Report of
                                  Independent Auditors
                                  and Quarterly Financial
                                  Data.

         Portion of Proxy Statement

Part III, Item 10.  Directors     Pages 2-5: Security
and Executive Officers            Ownership of
of the Registrant.                Management and
                                  Beneficial Ownership;
                                  Pages 5-7; Directors
                                  Standing for Election.              

Part III, Item 11.                Pages 15-23:  Executive 
Executive Compensation.           Compensation.


Part III, Item 12.  Security      Pages 2-5:  Security 
Ownership of Certain Beneficial   Ownership of Management and
Owners and Management.            Beneficial Ownership.




PART I

Item 1.  Business

(a)  General Development of the Business.

The Registrant was incorporated in 1966 under the laws of
Minnesota.  In the past year, the Registrant has not changed
its form of organization or mode of conducting business. 
The Registrant grows through internal development and
acquisitions.  As in the past, periodic dispositions of assets
or business units are possible when they no longer fit with
the long-term strategies of the Registrant.

Effective January 1, 1994, the Registrant acquired the net
assets and the subsidiaries of Schroff GmbH (Schroff) from
Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp for a cash purchase price
of approximately $140 million net of cash acquired.  Schroff
manufactures and sells enclosures, cases, subracks and
accessories for commercial electronic and instrumentation
applications, with world-wide 1993 sales of approximately
$160 million.  While Schroff faces significant competition in
each of its markets, it is the largest manufacturer of
electronic enclosures and 19 inch subracks in the European
market, in which the majority of Schroff sales are made. 
The Registrant views Schroff as complementary to the
electrical enclosure business of Hoffman Engineering and
intends to develop these businesses using their respective
strengths in technology, manufacturing, marketing and
market position.

In September 1994, Pentair announced that it was exploring
strategic alternatives for its paper businesses, including their
possible sale.  That course of action was chosen to achieve
several objectives.  First, to permit Pentair to focus its
commitment and resources in the industrial products sector,
continuing the strong growth and leading market positions
these businesses have achieved.  Second, to permit the
paper businesses to seek their own opportunities and long-term goals.
Third, to make Pentair a more understandable
company to the investment community and its shareholders.

That process is ongoing.  In February 1995, Pentair
announced the sale of its uncoated paper business, Cross
Pointe Paper, to Noranda Forest for approximately $200
million.  The sale is expected to close at the beginning of
April 1995.  Efforts continue toward completing the
strategic alternatives for Niagara of Wisconsin and
for the joint venture interest in Lake Superior Paper
Industries, the company's other paper businesses.

Pentair expects that its strategic refocusing will be
completed in the course of 1995.  Whatever the eventual
outcome, Pentair is poised to aggressively expand into its
chosen industrial markets.


(b)  Financial Information about Industry Segments.

The Registrant's business is conducted in three industry
segments.  The Specialty Products segment manufactures
woodworking machinery; portable power tools; and pumps
and pumping systems.  The General Industrial Equipment
segment manufactures electrical and electronic enclosures
and wireways; industrial lubricating systems and material
dispensing equipment; automotive service equipment; and
sporting ammunition.  The Paper Products segment
manufactures printing papers in a variety of types and
grades.  Business segment financial information is found on
page 29 and pages 52-53 (Note 18) of the 1994 Annual
Report to Shareholders.


Narrative Description of Business.
  
Description of the Specialty Products Segment:

    Products and marketing.

The following table sets forth, for each of the last three
years, the Specialty Products segment product class net
sales in excess of 10 percent of the Registrant's
consolidated net sales .



Woodworking Machinery.  The Registrant, through its
subsidiary Delta International Machinery Corp. (Delta),
manufactures, markets, and services a line of general-purpose woodworking
machinery, such as saws, planers,
joiners, grinders, drill presses, shapers, lathes, and other
quality machines.  Delta sells its products in the United
States, Canada, and other foreign countries under its
"Delta" brand name through a network of independent and
mail order distributors, hardware stores and home centers. 

Portable Electric Tools.  The Registrant, through its
subsidiary Porter-Cable Corporation (Porter-Cable),
manufactures and markets a variety of portable electric
tools, such as saws, sanders, drills and routers, used in
woodworking, industrial maintenance, and construction
trades.  Porter-Cable markets its products under the brand
name "Porter-Cable" through a network of independent,
specialty tool, and mail order distributors, hardware stores
and home centers.

Pumps and Pumping Systems.  The Registrant, through its
F.E. Myers Co. Division of McNeil (Ohio) Corporation
(Myers), manufactures and markets a wide variety of pumps
for residential, environmental engineering, and industrial
use.  Products are distributed through a network of
distributors, wholesalers, dealers, and installers.  In addition,
Myers distributes products to the do-it-yourself market for
retail sale through home centers and hardware stores under
the names "Water Ace" and "Shur Dri".


  Competitive conditions.

Delta participates in the middle range of the overall market
for general purpose woodworking machinery.  The
addressed market is focused on high quality, feature
oriented products and value added services for the home
shop, contractor, and small shop markets.  Delta markets
the industry's broadest line of products for its addressed
market.  Delta's numerous competitors do have individual
products which compete with certain of Delta's products. 
Competition in this market focuses on quality, features,
service and price.

Porter-Cable competes in the professional portable electric
tool market which is highly competitive.  Porter-Cable faces
several major competitors across its addressed market. 
Product innovation, features,  performance, quality, service,
delivery and price are all competitive factors.

Myers addresses the water pump and system market. 
Myers faces many competitors across its product lines. 
Price, delivery, and quality are competitive factors.


Description of the General Industrial Equipment Segment:

  Products and marketing.

The following table sets forth, for each of the last three
years, the General Industrial Equipment segment product
class net sales in excess of 10 percent of consolidated net
sales.



Electrical Enclosures.  Through the Hoffman Engineering
Company division of Federal-Hoffman, Inc. (Hoffman
Engineering), the Registrant manufactures enclosures and
wireways for electrical and industrial instrumentation
applications and markets these products primarily through
independent manufacturer's representatives and electrical
and electronic equipment distributors throughout North
America and the United Kingdom.

Electronic Enclosures.  Through  Schroff GmbH and its
international subsidiaries (Schroff), the Registrant
manufactures enclosures and wireways for electronic
instrumentation applications.  Schroff is a large European
manufacturer of cabinets, cases, subracks, microcomputer
packaging systems and accessories.  Schroff serves the
worldwide industrial electronics industry including key
segments such as computers, test & measurement, private
LANs/data communication, industrial control and factory
automation, medical and telecommunications. 

Sporting Ammunition.  Through the Federal Cartridge
Company division of Federal-Hoffman, Inc. (Federal
Cartridge), the Registrant manufactures and markets
sporting and law enforcement ammunition, and
components.  These products are distributed throughout the
United States through a network of distributors; directly to
large retail chains; and directly to law enforcement agencies
(governmental).

Industrial Lubricating Systems and Material Dispensing
Equipment.  The Registrant, through its Lincoln Industrial
division of McNeil (Ohio) Corporation (Lincoln Industrial),
manufactures components and designs systems for manual
and automatic delivery of measured quantities of lubricants
for industrial applications.  Lincoln Industrial also
manufactures components and designs, fabricates, and
installs high-volume liquid and semi-solid dispensing
systems.  Both segments serve original equipment and
retrofit markets.  Lubricating and materials dispensing
systems are marketed in the United States by approximately
100 specially qualified systems distributors with design,
installation, and service capability.  Basic lubricating
equipment and accessories are marketed through industrial
supply and specialty distributors.  A special direct sales
group markets a wide variety of Lincoln Industrial products
to original equipment manufacturers in a variety of
industries.  Lincoln Industrial also manufactures lubricating
components and systems at its facility in Walldorf, Germany
for distribution to European, Middle East, Far East and
African markets, and to a lesser extent to the United States. 
The remainder of the world market, including the Pacific
Rim, is served from Lincoln Industrial's St. Louis, Missouri
manufacturing facility.

Automotive Service Equipment.  The Registrant, through its
Lincoln Automotive division of  McNeil (Ohio) Corporation
(Lincoln Automotive), manufactures and markets
lubrication, repair, and service equipment for a broad range
of vehicles.  Products are sold through a key group of
approximately 600 aftermarket wholesalers.  Certain
products are sold to large auto parts chain stores. Certain
lubricating equipment, tools, and jacks and lifting equipment
are sold under private label programs.  Garage, service
station, car dealership service department, and fast oil
change lubricating systems are marketed through
petroleum equipment and service distributors with design
and installation capability.

  Competitive conditions.

Hoffman Engineering is the largest North American
manufacturer of electrical enclosures and wireways, having
a market share estimated to be about 25%.  It is currently
the only manufacturer with national distribution and its
competitors are generally smaller, regional manufacturers. 
Hoffman Engineering also participates in the North
American electronic enclosures market, facing competition
from a large number of firms, with three or four established
firms leading the market.  In both markets, the most
significant competitive factors are price, product innovation,
service, quality, breadth of product line, and delivery.

Schroff is a large manufacturer in Europe's electronic
enclosure market and a  technical leader.  Schroff, like
Hoffman, has a comprehensive product range.  Schroff
faces competition from a large number of firms, some very
large and some smaller.  Significant competitive factors are
product innovation and quality.

Federal Cartridge and its two primary competitors,
Winchester and Remington, have a combined market share
of approximately 90% in the U.S. sporting ammunition
market, with the balance coming from smaller domestic
competitors and foreign ammunition manufacturers. 
Quality, delivery, price and terms are significant competitive
factors.

Lincoln Industrial and Lincoln Automotive face three to five
major competitors and several smaller competitors across
their product lines.  Competition involving industrial
lubricating systems and material dispensing equipment
tends to center around quality, systems capability, and
application knowledge.  Price becomes a more significant
competitive factor for vehicle servicing equipment.


Description of the Paper Products and Joint Venture
Segments:

  Products and marketing.

The  following  table sets forth, for each of the  last three 
years, the Registrant's  net  sales  ($ millions), percent of
consolidated net sales and tons shipped (thousands) for
each paper product class.



  fn1    Lake Superior Paper Industries is a joint venture  in
  Duluth, Minnesota; only 50% of the joint venture's sales
  and tonnage are included.  Since this joint venture is
  accounted for on the equity method, its sales are not
  included in consolidated sales.
  
Coated Paper.  The Registrant, through its subsidiary
Niagara of Wisconsin Paper Corporation (Niagara),
manufactures coated groundwood publication-grade paper
(nos. 4 and 5) used for applications requiring high-resolution
printing and reproduction of color pictures, such as
magazines, periodicals, catalogs, and general commercial
printing. 

Uncoated Papers.  Cross Pointe Paper Corporation (Cross
Pointe), a subsidiary of the Registrant, through its
subsidiaries, Miami Paper Corporation, Dayton Paper Corp.
and Flambeau Paper Corp., manufactures a variety of
uncoated papers, primarily for commercial printing, text and
cover, and book publishing markets, and operates a
centralized converting and distribution operation (IDC) in
West Chicago, Illinois.

Supercalendered (SCA) Printing and Publication Grade
Papers.  The Registrant has a 50% interest in a joint
venture, Lake Superior Paper Industries (Lake Superior),
which produces supercalendered paper known as SCA. 
End use markets include magazine publication, catalogues
and advertising inserts.  SCA is sold directly to printers and
end users through Lake Superior's own sales and
marketing personnel.  
Adjacent to Lake Superior, is a recycled pulp mill facility, of
which 24% is owned by LSPI Fiber Co.  Registrant owns
50% of LSPI Fiber Co. and accounts for it on the equity
method.  LSPI Fiber Co. sells recycled pulp to LSPI and
other paper mills.
 
    Competitive conditions.

The Paper Products segment output of Niagara and Cross
Pointe is sold in highly competitive markets with between 10
to 15 competitors in each.  Many  competitors have greater
production capacity and, in many cases, captive sources of
raw materials.  Lake Superior is the largest North American
producer of SCA, but is subject to substantial competition
from European manufacturers, and makers of other grades
of printing and publication paper.  Price, quality, innovation
and service are significant competitive factors in the markets
served by the Paper Products segment.

    Raw materials.

The raw materials used in the manufacture of paper are
bleached kraft pulps, pulp substitutes, pulpwood,
groundwood pulp, waste paper, certain chemicals, clays,
starches, and additives.  The Registrant does not own its
own timberlands or manufacture its own kraft pulp.

Purchases of kraft pulp and waste paper are significant
components of the Registrant's fiber needs.  The raw
materials are supplied by several manufacturers, some
under long-term contracts.  The balance of fiber needs,
comprised primarily of groundwood pulp, sulphite pulp and
secondary fiber (pulp recovered by recycling waste paper),
is produced at the various mills.  The Registrant has
recently installed or expanded its recycled fiber capacity at
its Cross Pointe mills and has invested in a joint venture
recycled pulp facility in Duluth, Minnesota.

The Registrant also purchases chemicals, clays, logs for
pulp, waste paper, and other paper-making components
from various sources.  Adequate supplies of these materials
are expected to be available to meet the Registrant's needs.

    Backlog.

The following table shows backlog (in days) and
approximate sales value (at average selling price) at
December 31:

A substantial portion of paper sales are produced to meet
specific customer orders.  Although the level of backlogs
provides some indication of the strength of the paper
markets, other factors such as the trend of retail sales and
customer and printer inventory levels must be considered. 
The current backlog is considered adequate.  All backlogs
are expected to be filled within the current year.


  Information Regarding All Segments:

    Working capital items.

Federal Cartridge's working capital builds from January
through September as inventories are increased to meet
third quarter shipping schedules and receivables increase
due to fall dating for early order programs used in the
sporting ammunition business.  Management continues to
focus on reducing working capital requirements through
management of receivable and inventory levels.  

    Status of new products.

The industries in which the segments participate are
essentially mature and do not experience the introduction of
many products that materially change the nature of the
industry.  Individual manufacturers generally make
improvements or apply new technologies to existing
products.  

    Raw materials.

The raw materials used in the manufacturing process
include steel(bar and sheet) various metals including brass
and lead, gunpowder and plastic.  Selected motors,
castings, plastic parts and components are also purchased. 
The supply of all raw materials and components is currently
adequate.

Delta and Porter-Cable import select tools in their product
offerings.  Design and engineering of these products is
performed primarily by Delta.  The manufacturing process
is controlled and monitored for most of these products in
factories dedicated to Delta production.  Supply of these
products is currently adequate and timely.

    Patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises and
concessions.

The businesses own a number of U.S. and foreign patents
and trademarks.  They were acquired over many years and
relate to many products and improvements.  No one patent
or trademark is of material importance to the company as
a whole.

    Seasonal aspects.

For the Registrant as a whole there is no strongly seasonal
aspect.

    Backlog.

The Specialty Products and General Industrial Equipment
segments normally do not experience backlogs for
substantial periods of time.  The nature of the businesses
emphasizes maintaining inventories sufficient to satisfy
customer needs on a timely basis, and production and
sourcing is geared towards providing adequate inventories
in order to minimize customer back orders.  Accordingly,
backlogs are not material to understanding the sales trends
or manufacturing fluctuations of the segment.

    Dependence on limited number of customers.

The Registrant as a whole is not dependent on a single
customer or on a few customers.  The loss of a limited
number of customers would not have a material adverse
impact on the Registrant.

    Government contracts.

The Registrant has no material portion of sales under
government contracts that may be subject to renegotiation
of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the
government.

    Employees.

As of December 31, 1994, the Registrant and its
subsidiaries employed approximately 10,300 persons, of
which 2,475 were represented by unions having collective
bargaining agreements.

Labor contracts negotiated in 1994 were:  Molders and
Allied Workers Local 45  - Ashland, Ohio (extended to May
1, 1997), 49 employees; Clerical Workers Local 47 -
Niagara, Wisconsin (extended to May 14, 1997), 25
employees; and Molders and Allied Workers Local 19  -
Guelph, Ontario, Canada (extended to July 1, 1997) 7
employees. 

Contracts expiring in 1995: International Association of
Machinists Local 59 - Ashland, Ohio (expires April 6, 1995);
United Paperworkers International Union Local 1166 -
Niagara, Wisconsin (was extended from January 31, 1995
and now expires April 30, 1995);  International Association
of Machinists Local 9 - St. Louis, Missouri (expires April 30,
1995); United Steel Workers of America Local 8630 -
Tupelo, Mississippi (expires May 1, 1995); Patternworkers
League - Ashland, Ohio (expires September 1, 1995);  and
Teamsters Local 984 - Memphis, Tennessee (expires
December 15, 1995).

The Registrant considers its employee relations to be good
and feels future contracts can be negotiated for the benefit
of the business and the employees.


(d)  Financial Information about Foreign Operations.

The Registrant operates primarily in North America and
Europe.  See discussion of foreign operations incorporated
by reference.


Item 2.  Properties

The Registrant's corporate offices, located at 1500 County
Road B2 West, St. Paul, Minnesota 55113-3105, are leased
and consist of approximately 22,000 square feet; the lease
expires in December 1999.  The Registrant also has an
option to terminate the lease during the period December
1994 to June 1995.  Information about the Registrant's
principal manufacturing facilities and other properties is
presented below by industry segment.  These facilities are
adequate and suitable for the purposes they serve.  Unless
noted all facilities are owned.

Specialty Products Segment

                              
NOTES:

  (1)  Certain pulp and paper production
    equipment is leased.  One lease expires in
  1996 with options to renew for two terms of three years each. 
  Another lease expires in 1999 with options to renew for three terms of
  two years each.  The third lease expires in 2006 with an option to purchase
  after seven years and options to renew for up to eight years .  Under each
  lease, Niagara has the option to purchase the equipment at the then-current
  market value at the end of the initial term or at the end of each renewal
  term.
  (2)   Consists of 10,700 square feet of space under a lease expiring in 1997.
  (3)   Consists of 202,000 square feet under a lease expiring in 1998 and
        253,000 square feet under a lease expiring in 2001.
  (4)   The Flambeau mill power plant is leased until 2007 with options
        to renew for three terms of five years each.
  (5)   The production equipment is leased under 25-year leases through 2012
        with options to renew for periods of five to seven years and options
        to purchase the equipment in 1997, and at the expiration of the lease
        term and of any renewal term.
  


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.

The Registrant or its subsidiaries have been made parties
to actions filed, or have been given notice of potential
claims, relating to the conduct of its business, including
those pertaining to product liability, environmental and
employment matters.  Major matters which may have an
impact on the Registrant are discussed below.  The
Registrant believes that  it is remote that the outcome of
such matters will have a material adverse effect on the
Registrant's financial position or future results of operations,
based on current  circumstances known to the Registrant.

Federal-Hoffman, Inc.  Federal Cartridge, a division of
Federal-Hoffman, has been named by the EPA as a
Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) in connection with a 
waste disposal site in Greer, South Carolina.  The EPA
issued an administrative order effective April 29, 1992 to
Federal-Hoffman and 96 other entities to compel the
cleanup of the Aqua-Tech Environmental, Inc. site. 
Federal-Hoffman is working with a group of other PRPs to
negotiate with the EPA regarding the cleanup of the site.  A
surface cleanup of the site is complete.  Under interim
allocations by the PRP group, Federal Cartridge paid
$442,000 toward the cost of the surface cleanup.  Under
current final allocation proposals,  Federal-Hoffman
anticipates no additional payout for the surface cleanup.

On March 16, 1995, the EPA notified Federal Cartridge that
it is a PRP related to the subsurface of the site.  The PRP
group anticipates beginning a study of the soil and
groundwater to determine the extent of subsurface
contamination.  The cost of such study, any necessary
remediation and the size of allocation, if any, to Federal-Hoffman is unknown to
the Registrant at this time.   Federal-Hoffman however, anticipates its
allocation in the subsurface action to be positively impacted by the nature of
its waste and the fact that virtually all of its waste was
accounted for and removed during the surface remediation.

In October 1992, Hoffman Engineering, a division of
Federal-Hoffman was also named as a PRP in connection
with the Aqua-Tech site.  Hoffman settled out of the surface
removal as a de minimis party, and anticipates doing the
same for the subsurface remediation.  Based on current
information available to it, the Registrant believes that this
matter is unlikely to result in material future liability.

Porter-Cable Corporation.  In November 1993, the
Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation
(TDEC) issued to Porter-Cable Corporation (Porter-Cable)
and Rockwell International Corporation (Rockwell)  an
administrative order requiring them to investigate, and if
necessary, clean up alleged groundwater contamination at
a manufacturing facility located in Madison County,
Tennessee.  The facility was acquired by Porter Cable from
Rockwell in 1981.  Porter Cable is currently engaged in
discussions with Rockwell to reach an agreement regarding
indemnification from or cost sharing with Rockwell, based
upon Tennessee and Federal law, for  costs and expenses
related to investigation of the site.  The Registrant believes
that this matter is unlikely to result in material liability or
material changes in operations.  No estimate of the
projected response cost liability can be made based on
information currently known to the Company.

Cross Pointe Paper Corporation.  In February 1994, the
Miami mill (Miami)  of Cross Pointe Paper Corporation was
named a PRP in connection with the IWD/Cardington
landfill in Moraine, Ohio.  Waste haulers with whom Miami
contracted to transport its flyash and paper and wood waste
allegedly took it to this landfill for some time prior to its
closure in 1980.  The EPA has identified 22 other PRPs at
this time.  The cost of remediation of the site is estimated to
be approximately $12 to $15 million.  Miami is investigating
its alleged involvement at this site.

Niagara of Wisconsin Paper Corporation.    In March
1994, Niagara of Wisconsin Paper Corporation (Niagara)
was notified by the Michigan Department of Natural
Resources (MDNR) that  Niagara's sludge lagoons violate
MDNR regulations.  Niagara is discussing with the MDNR
the closure schedule of the lagoons and the need for
expanded groundwater monitoring at the site.  Monitoring
done to date indicates some groundwater contamination,
but at this time the extent is unknown.  It is likely that some
remediation will be required; but the Registrant does not
anticipate that the cost of any such remediation will have a
material impact on Registrant's financial condition or
operations.

California Proposition 65 Notice.    Two divisions of
Registrant's subsidiaries have received notices pursuant to
California Health and Safety Code Section 25249
(Proposition 65).   In February 1994,  F.E. Myers (Myers), a
division of McNeil (Ohio) Corporation,  received a notice
regarding alleged violations arising from discharge of lead
from submersible water pumps into drinking water since
February 27, 1988.  Two private environmental groups sent
the notice to and subsequently filed suit against Myers and
three other pump manufacturers and one pump distributor. 
Under Proposition 65, the penalty for each violation is
$2,500 per day.  Myers is responding to the claims raised in
the lawsuit.  In light of a recent settlement proposal by
plaintiffs, Registrant believes that it is unlikely that this
matter will result in material liability.  

In October 1994, Federal Cartridge (Federal), a division of
Federal-Hoffman, Inc. received a notice regarding alleged
violations of Proposition 65 arising from exposure of firearm
users to lead from ammunition.   A private environmental
group sent the notice to Federal and 75 other ammunition
and firearms manufacturers and sellers.  Federal is
currently investigating the claims set forth in this notice.  

Product Liability Claims.   As of March 4, 1995, the
Registrant or its subsidiaries are defendants in
approximately 177 product liability lawsuits and have been
notified of approximately 100 additional claims.  The
Registrant has had and currently has in place insurance
coverage it deems adequate for its needs.  A substantial
number of these lawsuits and claims are insured by
Penwald, a regulated insurance company wholly owned by
Registrant.  See discussion in Item 7 (MD&A - Insurance
Subsidiary) and Item 8 (Note 1 to the Financial Statements). 
  Accounting reserves covering the deductible portion of 
liability claims not covered by Penwald have been
established and are reviewed on a regular basis.  The
Registrant has not experienced unfavorable trends in either
the severity or frequency of product liability claims.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders.

During the fourth quarter, no matter was submitted to a vote
of security holders.


             PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.

Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of
       Financial Condition and Results of Operation.
       
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
       
For information required under Items 5 through 8, see the
Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
ended December 31, 1994, as referenced on page 2 of this
report.

Item 9.Changes in and Disagreements with
       Accountants on Accounting and Financial
       Disclosure.
       
No changes in accountants or disagreements between the
Registrant and its accountants regarding accounting
principles or financial statement disclosures have occurred
within the 24 months prior to the date of the Registrant's
most recent financial statements.



PART III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
       

 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following are the executive officers of the Registrant. 
Their term of office extends until the next annual meeting of
the Board of Directors, scheduled for April 19, 1995, or until
their successors are elected and have qualified.


Winslow H. Buxton   55
                                 Chairman since January
                                 15, 1993; President and
                                 Chief Executive Officer
                                 since August 1992; Chief
                                 Operating Officer, August
                                 1990 - August 1992; Vice
                                 President - Paper Group,
                                 January 1989 - August
                                 1990. 
                                        
                                        
Wilson Blackburn    42
                                  Vice President, Paper
                                  Operations since
                                  September 1994;
                                  President, Cross Pointe
                                  Paper Corporation
                                  (subsidiary of Registrant)
                                  since September 1994;
                                  President, Lake Superior
                                  Paper (joint venture of
                                  Registrant), April 1993 -
                                  September 1994;
                                  President and CEO of
                                  PWA Rolland Decor Inc.,
                                  1990-1993; Vice
                                  President, Operations,
                                  Rolland Inc., 1989-1990.
                                  (In connection with the
                                  sale of Cross Pointe
                                  Paper Corporation to
                                  Noranda Forest, Mr.
                                  Blackburn has resigned
                                  effective April 1, 1995.)
                                       
Richard J. Cathcart 50
                                  Executive Vice President,
                                  Corporate Development
                                  since March 6, 1995;
                                  Vice President, Business
                                  Development of
                                  Honeywell, Inc. 1994 -
                                  March 1995; Vice
                                  President and General
                                  Manager of Honeywell's
                                  Worldwide Building
                                  Control Division 1992 -
                                  1994; Vice President and
                                  General Manager,
                                  Honeywell's U.S.
                                  Operations of Building
                                  Control Division, 1988-1991.
                                                  
Joseph R. Collins   53
                                  Senior Vice President -
                                  Specialty Products since
                                  August 1991; Acting
                                  Chief Financial Officer,
                                  June 1993 - March 1994;
                                  President, Delta
                                  International Machinery
                                  Corporation (subsidiary of
                                  the Registrant), October
                                  1984 -  August 1991.
                                     

David D. Harrison   47
                                  Senior Vice President
                                  and Chief Financial
                                  Officer since March 1994; 
                                  Vice-President, Finance
                                  and Information
                                  Technology of the GE
                                  Canada Appliance
                                  Component subsidiary of
                                  General Electric, August
                                  1992 - March 1994; and
                                  Vice President, Finance
                                  and Deputy Executive
                                  Officer of the GE Europe
                                  Lighting Component
                                  subsidiary of General
                                  Electric, January 1990 -
                                  July 1992. 


Ronald V. Kelly     58
                                  Senior Vice President -
                                  Long Range Planning
                                  since September 1994;
                                  Senior Vice President -
                                  Paper Products,  August
                                  1991 - September 1994;
                                  Vice President - Specialty
                                  Products, March 1989 -
                                  August 1991.
                                       
 Gerald C. Kitch     57
                                  Senior Vice President -
                                  General Industrial
                                  Equipment since August
                                  1991; Vice President -
                                  General Industrial
                                  Equipment, March 1989 -
                                  August 1991.
                                       
 Debby S. Knutson    40
                                  Vice President, Human
                                  Resources since
                                  September 1994;
                                  Assistant Vice President,
                                  Human Resources ,
                                  August 1993 -
                                  September 1994; Vice
                                  President, Human
                                  Resources of Hoffman
                                  Engineering (division of
                                  Registrant) July 1990 -
                                  August 1993; Director of
                                  Human Resources at
                                  Hoffman, December
                                  1988 - July 1990.
                                       
                                        
Allan J. Kolles     63
                                  Senior Vice President
                                  and Assistant to the Chief
                                  Executive Officer since
                                  August 1994; Vice
                                  President, Human
                                  Resources,  March 1985
                                  - August 1994.
                                        
                                       
Roy T. Rueb         54
                                  Vice President, Treasurer
                                  since October 1986 and
                                  Secretary since June
                                  1994.

Mark T. Schroepfer   48
                                  Vice President Finance
                                  and MIS since June
                                  1994; Vice President,
                                  Controller, January 1990
                                  - June 1994.

There is no family relationship between any of the executive
officers or directors.



Item 11.         Executive Compensation.
       
Item 12.         Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
                 Owners and Management.
       
For information required under Items 11 and 12, see the
Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders referenced on page 2 of this report.

Item 13.         Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

No relationships or transactions existed that require
disclosure under Item 13.


PART IV

Item 14.         Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
                Reports on Form 8-K.
       
(a)  Financial Statements and Exhibits.

     1.          The following consolidated financial statements
of Pentair, Inc. and subsidiaries, together with the Report of
Independent Certified Public Accountants, found on pages
34 to 53 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders
for the year ended December 31, 1994, are hereby
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.

Page of Annual Report
     Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants34

     Consolidated Statements of Income 
     for Years Ended December 31, 1994,
     1993 and 1992                   

     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
     December 31, 1994 and 1993
36 - 37

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
     for Years Ended December 31, 1994,
     1993 and 1992                   

     Notes to Consolidated Financial
     Statements  
40 - 53


     2.          The additional financial data listed below is
included as exhibits to this Form 10-K Report and should be
read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements presented in the 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders.

Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants

Schedule for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993
and 1992:

       VIII- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts



3.  The following exhibits are included with this Report on
Form 10-K (or incorporated by reference) as required by
Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

Exhibit
Number           Description

(3.1)  Restated Articles of Incorporation as
       amended through April 25, 1989.

(3.2)  Resolution Establishing and Designating
       $7.50 Callable Cumulative Convertible
       Preferred Stock, Series 1988, as a series
       of Preferred Stock of Pentair, Inc.

(3.3)  Resolution Establishing and Designating
       8% Callable Cumulative Voting Convertible
       Preferred Stock, Series 1990, as a series
       of Preferred Stock of Pentair, Inc.

(3.4)  Second Amended and Superseding By-Laws as amended through January 19,
       1993.

(4.1)  Restated Articles of Incorporation, as
       amended, and Second Amended and
       Superseding By-Laws, as amended (see
       Exhibits 3.1 - 3.4 above).

(4.2)  Rights Agreement dated December 26,
       1986 between the Company and First
       Trust Company, Inc.

(4.3)  Amendment to Rights Agreement dated
       July 22, 1988 between the Company and
       Norwest Bank Minnesota, National
       Association, as successor Rights Agent
       (Amending Exhibit 4.2).

(4.4)  Second Amendment to Rights Agreement
       dated December 15, 1989 between the
       Company and Norwest Bank Minnesota,
       National Association, as successor Rights
       Agent (Amending Exhibit 4.2). 

(4.5)  Bid Loan Agreement dated December 14,
       1988 between the Company, Continental
       Bank N.A. for itself and as Agent, Morgan
       Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
       Morgan Bank (Delaware), First Bank
       National Association, Norwest Bank
       Minnesota, N.A., and Mellon Bank, N.A.

(4.6)  First Amendment to Bid Loan Agreement
       dated January 1, 1991 between the
       Company, Continental Bank N.A. for itself
       and as Agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust
       Company of New York, Morgan Bank
       (Delaware), First Bank National
       Association, Norwest Bank Minnesota,
       N.A., and NBD Bank, N.A. (Amending
       Exhibit 4.5). 

(4.7)  Second Amendment to Bid Loan
       Agreement dated as of February 11, 1994
       between Pentair, Inc., Continental Bank
       N.A. for itself and as Agent, Morgan
       Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
       J.P. Morgan Delaware, First Bank National
       Assocation, Norwest Bank Minnesota,
       N.A., and NBD Bank, N.A. (Amending
       Exhibit 4.5). 

(4.8)  $125,000,000 Facility Agreement dated as
       of February 11, 1994 between Pentair, Inc.,
       Continental Bank N.A. for itself and as
       Agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company
       of New York for itself and as Agent, NBD
       Bank, N.A., and J. P. Morgan Delaware.

(4.9)  Amendment Number One to Facility
       Agreement dated as of November 1, 1994 
       between Pentair, Inc., Bank of America
       Illinois (formerly known as Continental
       Bank N.A.) for itself and as Agent, Morgan
       Guaranty Trust Company of New York for
       itself and as Agent, NBD Bank, N.A., and J.
       P. Morgan Delaware. (Amending Exhibit
       4.8)

(4.10) $45,000,000 Facility Agreement dated as
       of February 11, 1994 between Pentair, Inc.,
       First Bank National Association, for itself
       and as Agent, and Norwest Bank
       Minnesota N.A. 

(4.11) Amendment Number One to Facility
       Agreement dated as of November 1, 1994 
       between Pentair, Inc., First Bank National
       Association, for itself and as Agent, and
       Norwest Bank Minnesota N.A.(Amending
       Exhibit 4.10)

(4.12) DM 115,000,000 Facility Agreement dated
       as of February 11, 1994 between
       EuroPentair, GmbH as Borrower, Pentair,
       Inc., as Guarantor, Morgan Guaranty Trust
       Company of New York for itself and as
       Agent, Continental Bank N.A., for itself and
       as Agent, NBD  Bank, N.A. and Dresdner
       Bank.


(4.13) Amendment Number One to Facility
       Agreement dated as of November 1, 1994 
       between EuroPentair, GmbH as Borrower,
       Pentair, Inc., as Guarantor, Morgan
       Guaranty Trust Company of New York for
       itself and as Agent, Bank of America
       Illinois(formerly known as Continental Bank
       N.A.), for itself and as Agent, NBD  Bank,
       N.A. and Dresdner Bank. (Amending
       Exhibit 4.12)

(4.14) Amendment Number Two to Facility
       Agreement dated as of February 15, 1995 
       between EuroPentair, GmbH as Borrower,
       Pentair, Inc., as Guarantor, Morgan
       Guaranty Trust Company of New York for
       itself and as Agent, Bank of America
       Illinois(formerly known as Continental Bank
       N.A.), for itself and as Agent, NBD  Bank,
       N.A. and Dresdner Bank . (Amending
       Exhibit 4.12)

(4.15) Restatement of Credit Agreement dated
       July 11, 1989 between Federal-Hoffman,
       Inc. and First Bank National Association.

(4.16) Second Amendment to Restatement of
       Credit Agreement dated as of January 19,
       1993 between Federal-Hoffman, Inc.,
       Pentair, Inc., and First Bank National
       Association (Amending Exhibit 4.15) .

(4.17) Third Amendment to Restatement of
       Credit Agreement dated as of December
       31, 1994 between Federal-Hoffman, Inc.,
       Pentair, Inc., and First Bank National
       Association (Amending Exhibit 4.15)

(4.18) $35,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement
       dated March 25, 1991  between Pentair,
       Inc. and Nationwide Life Insurance
       Company.

(4.19) $25,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement
       dated December 13, 1991  between
       Pentair, Inc. and Principal Mutual Life
       Insurance Company.

(4.20) $15,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement
       dated November 1, 1992  between Pentair,
       Inc. and Nationwide Life Insurance
       Company.

(4.21) $15,000,000 Note Purchase Agreement
       dated January 15, 1993  between Pentair,
       Inc. and Principal Mutual Life Insurance
       Company.

(4.22) $70,000,000 Senior Notes Purchase
       Agreement dated as of April 30, 1993
       between Pentair, Inc. and United of Omaha
       Life Insurance Company, Companion Life
       Insurance Company, Principal Mutual Life
       Insurance Company, Nippon Life
       Insurance Company of America, Lutheran
       Brotherhood, American United Life
       Insurance Company, Modern Woodmen of
       America, The Franklin Life Insurance
       Company and Ameritas Life Insurance
       Corp.

(10.1) Agreements dated February 8, 1978 and
       February 9, 1982 between the Company
       and D. Eugene Nugent.

(10.2) Agreement dated February 8, 1984
       (Amending Exhibit 10.1).

(10.3) Agreement dated December 17, 1985
       (Amending Exhibit 10.1).

(10.4) Agreement dated May 7, 1990 (Amending
       Exhibit 10.1).

(10.5) Company's Supplemental Employee
       Retirement Plan effective June 16, 1988.

(10.6) Company's 1986 Nonqualified Stock
       Option Plan. 

(10.7) Company's 1990 Omnibus Stock Incentive
       Plan.

(10.8) Company's Management Incentive Plan as
       amended to January 12, 1990.

(10.9) Employee Stock Purchase and Bonus Plan
       as amended and restated effective
       January 1, 1992.

(10.10)     Company's Flexible Perquisite Program as
            amended to January 1, 1989.

(10.11)     Form of 1986 Management Assurance
            Agreement (Revised 1990) between the
            Company and certain executive officers.

(10.12)     Company's Third Amended and Restated
            Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
            Directors as amended to January 1, 1992.

(10.13)     Company's Outside Directors Nonqualified
            Stock Option Plan dated January 22, 1988. 

(10.14)     First Amendment to Outside Directors
            Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (Amending
            Exhibit 10.13).

(10.15)     Second Amendment to Outside Directors
            Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (Amending
            Exhibit 10.13).

(10.16)     Pentair, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan
            effective January 1, 1993.

(10.17)     Lake Superior Paper Industries Venture
            Council By-Laws and Management
            Protocol. 

(10.18)     Second Amended and Restated Joint
            Venture Agreement dated December 31,
            1987 between Pentair Duluth Corp. and
            Minnesota Paper, Incorporated.

(10.19)     First Amendment to Second Restated Joint
            Venture Agreement, First Amendment to
            Venture Council By-Laws, and First
            Amendment to Management Protocol, all
            dated May 30, 1989, between Pentair
            Duluth Corp. and Minnesota Paper,
            Incorporated (Amending Exhibits 10.17 and
            10.18).

(10.20)     Cash Deficiency Agreement dated
            December 31, 1987 among Pentair Duluth
            Corp., as Joint Venturer, Associated
            Southern Investment Company, as Owner
            Participant, The Connecticut Bank and
            Trust Company, National Association, as
            Indenture Trustee, and First National Bank
            of Minneapolis, as Owner Trustee.  Cash
            Deficiency Agreements also were entered
            into with respect to each of the other four
            Owner Participants:  Dana Lease Finance
            Corporation, NYNEX Credit Company,
            Public Service Resources Corporation, and
            Southern Indiana Properties, Inc.

(10.21)     Keepwell Agreement and Assignment
            dated December 31, 1987 among Pentair,
            Inc., as Sponsor, Pentair Duluth Corp., as
            Joint Venturer, and First National Bank of
            Minneapolis, as Owner Trustee; although
            First Minneapolis executed this filed
            document as Owner Trustee for
            Associated Southern Investment
            Company, additional Keepwell
            Agreements and Assignments were
            entered into by First Minneapolis as Owner
            Trustee for the other four Owner
            Participants listed in the description of
            Exhibit 10.20 above.

(10.22)     Definition of Terms for Financing
            Agreement dated December 31, 1987 and
            the Transaction Documents Referred to
            Therein:  Sale and Leaseback of Undivided
            Interest in Lake Superior Paper Industries'
            Supercalendered Paper Mill; although this
            filed document supplies the definitions
            applicable to the agreements filed as
            Exhibits 10.20 and 10.2 above, there were
            four additional sets of definitions that
            supply the definitions for the other sets of
            agreements referred to in the descriptions
            of those Exhibits with respect to the various
            Owner Participants.

(10.23)     Loan and Stock Purchase Agreement
            dated March 7, 1990 between the
            Company and the Pentair, Inc. Employee
            Stock Ownership Plan Trust, acting
            through State Street Bank and Trust
            Company, as Trustee.

(10.24)     $56,499,982 Promissory Note dated March
            7, 1990 of the Pentair, Inc. Employee
            Stock Ownership Plan Trust, acting
            through State Street Bank and Trust
            Company, as Trustee, to the Company.

(11)   Statement regarding computation of
       earnings per share. 

(13)   Annual Report to Shareholders for period
       ended December 31, 1994.

(21)   Subsidiaries of Registrant.

(24)   Consent of Deloitte & Touche. 


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

       None.
       
SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                   PENTAIR, INC.




                               By /s/ David D. Harrison                        
                                  David D. Harrison
                                  Senior Vice President and
                                  Chief Financial Officer



Dated:  March 29, 1995


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, this report has also been signed by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.





By /s/ Winslow H. Buxton                               Dated:  March 29, 1995
   Winslow H. Buxton,
   Chairman, President and
   Chief Executive Officer, Director


By /s/  George N. Butzow                               Dated:  March 29, 1995
   George N. Butzow,
   Director



By /s/ Charles A. Haggerty                             Dated:  March 29, 1995
   Charles A. Haggerty,
   Director


 By /s/  Harold V. Haverty                             Dated:  March 29, 1995
   Harold V. Haverty,
   Director


By /s/  Quentin J. Hietpas                             Dated:  March 29, 1995
   Quentin J. Hietpas,
   Director


By /s/  B. Kristine Johnson                            Dated:  March 29, 1995
   B. Kristine Johnson,
   Director


By /s/  Walter Kissling                                Dated:  March 29, 1995
   Walter Kissling,
   Director


By /s/ D.  Eugene Nugent                               Dated:  March 29, 1995
   D. Eugene Nugent,
   Director


By /s/ Richard M. Schulze                              Dated:  March 29, 1995
   Richard M. Schulze,
   Director


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED
 PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS 



Pentair, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of
Pentair, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and
1993, and for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1994, and have issued our report thereon
dated February 10, 1995, except for Note 4, as to which the
date is February 21, 1995; such financial statements and
report are included in your 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders and are incorporated herein by reference. 
Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of
Pentair, Inc. and subsidiaries listed in Item 14.  This financial
statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
based on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly
in all material respects the information set forth therein.




DELOITTE & TOUCHE


Minneapolis, Minnesota
February 10, 1995, except for Note 4, as to which the date
is February 21, 1995


SCHEDULE VIII

PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31

   


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit
Number        Description

(3.1)          Restated Articles of
               Incorporation as amended
               through April 25, 1989
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
               March 31, 1989).

(3.2)          Resolution Establishing and
               Designating $7.50 Callable
               Cumulative Convertible
               Preferred Stock, Series 1988, as
               a series of Preferred Stock of
               Pentair, Inc. (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
               Amendment No. 1 to the
               Company's Current Report on
               Form 8-K filed December 30,
               1988).

(3.3)          Resolution Establishing and
               Designating 8% Callable
               Cumulative Voting Convertible
               Preferred Stock, Series 1990, as
               a series of Preferred Stock of
               Pentair, Inc. (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4 to the
               Company's Current Report on 
               Form 8-K filed March 21, 1990).

(3.4)          Second Amended and
               Superseding By-Laws as
               amended through January 19,
               1993 (Incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 3.16 to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the year ended December 31,
               1992).

(4.1)          Restated Articles of
               Incorporation, as amended, and
               Second Amended and
               Superseding By-Laws, as
               amended (see Exhibits 3.1 - 3.4
               above).

(4.2)          Rights Agreement dated
               December 26, 1986 between the
               Company and First Trust
               Company, Inc. (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 1 to the
               Company's Registration
               Statement on Form 8-A filed
               December 26, 1986).

(4.3)          Amendment to Rights
               Agreement dated July 22, 1988
               between the Company and
               Norwest Bank Minnesota,
               National Association, as
               successor Rights Agent
               (Amending Exhibit 4.2)
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's
               Current Report on Form 8-K filed
               August 2, 1988).

(4.4)          Second Amendment to Rights
               Agreement dated December 15,
               1989 between the Company and
               Norwest Bank Minnesota,
               National Association, as
               successor Rights Agent
               (Amending Exhibit 4.2)
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's
               Current Report on Form 8-K filed
               December 28, 1989). 

(4.5)          Bid Loan Agreement dated
               December 14, 1988 between the
               Company, Continental Bank N.A.
               for itself and as Agent, Morgan
               Guaranty Trust Company of New
               York, Morgan Bank (Delaware),
               First Bank National Association,
               Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A.,
               and Mellon Bank, N.A.
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 4.2 to Amendment No. 1
               to the Company's Current Report
               on Form 8-K filed December 30,
               1988).

(4.6)          First Amendment to Bid Loan
               Agreement dated January 1,
               1991 between the Company,
               Continental Bank N.A. for itself
               and as Agent, Morgan Guaranty
               Trust Company of New York,
               Morgan Bank (Delaware), First
               Bank National Association,
               Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A.,
               and NBD Bank, N.A. (Amending
               Exhibit 4.5) (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the
               Company's Annual Report on
               Form 10K for the year ended
               December 31, 1990).

(4.7)          Second Amendment to Bid Loan
               Agreement dated as of February
               11, 1994 between Pentair, Inc.,
               Continental Bank N.A. for itself
               and as Agent, Morgan Guaranty
               Trust Company of New York,
               J.P. Morgan Delaware, First
               Bank National Assocation,
               Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A.,
               and NBD Bank, N.A. (Amending
               Exhibit 4.5) (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the
               Company's Current Report on
               Form 8-K filed March 14, 1994).

(4.8)          $125,000,000 Facility Agreement
               dated as of February 11, 1994
               between Pentair, Inc.,
               Continental Bank N.A. for itself
               and as Agent, Morgan Guaranty
               Trust Company of New York for
               itself and as Agent, NBD Bank,
               N.A., and J. P. Morgan Delaware
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
               Current Report on Form 8-K filed
               March 14, 1994).

(4.9)          Amendment Number One to
               Facility Agreement dated as of
               November 1, 1994  between
               Pentair, Inc., Bank of America
               Illinois (formerly known as
               Continental Bank N.A.) for itself
               and as Agent, Morgan Guaranty
               Trust Company of New York for
               itself and as Agent, NBD Bank,
               N.A., and J. P. Morgan
               Delaware. (Amending Exhibit
               4.8)

(4.10)         $45,000,000 Facility Agreement
               dated as of February 11, 1994
               between Pentair, Inc., First Bank
               National Association, for itself
               and as Agent, and Norwest Bank
               Minnesota N.A. (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
               Company's Current Report on
               Form 8-K filed March 14, 1994).

(4.11)         Amendment Number One to
               Facility Agreement dated as of
               November 1, 1994  between
               Pentair, Inc., First Bank National
               Association, for itself and as
               Agent, and Norwest Bank
               Minnesota N.A.(Amending
               Exhibit 4.10)

(4.12)         DM 115,000,000 Facility
               Agreement dated as of February
               11, 1994 between EuroPentair,
               GmbH as Borrower, Pentair, Inc.,
               as Guarantor, Morgan Guaranty
               Trust Company of New York for
               itself and as Agent, Continental
               Bank N.A., for itself and as
               Agent, NBD  Bank, N.A. and
               Dresdner Bank (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the
               Company's Current Report on
               Form 8-K filed March 14, 1994).

(4.13)         Amendment Number One to
               Facility Agreement dated as of
               November 1, 1994  between
               EuroPentair, GmbH as Borrower,
               Pentair, Inc., as Guarantor,
               Morgan Guaranty Trust
               Company of New York for itself
               and as Agent, Bank of America
               Illinois(formerly known as
               Continental Bank N.A.), for itself
               and as Agent, NBD  Bank, N.A.
               and Dresdner Bank. (Amending
               Exhibit 4.12)

(4.14)         Amendment Number Two to
               Facility Agreement dated as of
               February 15, 1995  between
               EuroPentair, GmbH as Borrower,
               Pentair, Inc., as Guarantor,
               Morgan Guaranty Trust
               Company of New York for itself
               and as Agent, Bank of America
               Illinois(formerly known as
               Continental Bank N.A.), for itself
               and as Agent, NBD  Bank, N.A.
               and Dresdner Bank . (Amending
               Exhibit 4.12)

(4.15)         Restatement of Credit
               Agreement dated July 11, 1989
               between Federal-Hoffman, Inc.
               and First Bank National
               Association (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the
               Company's Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31,
               1989).

(4.16)         Second Amendment to
               Restatement of Credit
               Agreement dated as of January
               19, 1993 between Federal-Hoffman, Inc., Pentair, Inc., and
               First Bank National Association
               (Amending Exhibit 4.15)
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 4.13 to the Company's
               Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1992).

(4.17)         Third Amendment to
               Restatement of Credit
               Agreement dated as of
               December 31, 1994 between
               Federal-Hoffman, Inc., Pentair,
               Inc., and First Bank National
               Association (Amending Exhibit
               4.15).

(4.18)         $35,000,000 Note Purchase
               Agreement dated March 25,
               1991  between Pentair, Inc. and
               Nationwide Life Insurance
               Company.  (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.14 to the
               Company's Registration
               Statement on Form S-8 filed
               August 6, 1991).

(4.19)         $25,000,000 Note Purchase
               Agreement dated December 13,
               1991  between Pentair, Inc. and
               Principal Mutual Life Insurance
               Company.  (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.15 to the
               Company's Registration
               Statement on Form S-8 filed
               January 13, 1992).

(4.20)         $15,000,000 Note Purchase
               Agreement dated November 1,
               1992  between Pentair, Inc. and
               Nationwide Life Insurance
               Company (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.16 to the
               Company's Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31,
               1992).

(4.21)         $15,000,000 Note Purchase
               Agreement dated January 15,
               1993  between Pentair, Inc. and
               Principal Mutual Life Insurance
               Company (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.17 to the
               Company's Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31,
               1992).

(4.22)         $70,000,000 Senior Notes
               Purchase Agreement dated as of
               April 30, 1993 between Pentair,
               Inc. and United of Omaha Life
               Insurance Company, Companion
               Life Insurance Company,
               Principal Mutual Life Insurance
               Company, Nippon Life Insurance
               Company of America, Lutheran
               Brotherhood, American United
               Life Insurance Company,
               Modern Woodmen of America,
               The Franklin Life Insurance
               Company and Ameritas Life
               Insurance Corp (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.17 to the
               Company's Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31,
               1993).

(10.1)         Agreements dated February 8,
               1978 and February 9, 1982
               between the Company and D.
               Eugene Nugent (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
               Company's Registration
               Statement on Form S-2 filed
               June 24, 1983).

(10.2)         Agreement dated February 8,
               1984 (Amending Exhibit 10.1)
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the year ended December 31,
               1983).

(10.3)         Agreement dated December 17,
               1985 (Amending Exhibit 10.1)
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the year ended December 31,
               1985).

(10.4)         Agreement dated May 7, 1990
               (Amending Exhibit 10.1).
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10K for
               the year ended December 31,
               1990).

(10.5)         Company's Supplemental
               Employee Retirement Plan
               effective June 16, 1988
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.10 to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the year ended December 31,
               1989).

(10.6)         Company's 1986 Nonqualified
               Stock Option Plan (Incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to
               the Company's Annual Report
               on Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1986).

(10.7)         Company's 1990 Omnibus Stock
               Incentive Plan (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the
               Company's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1989).

(10.8)         Company's Management
               Incentive Plan as amended to
               January 12, 1990 (Incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to
               the Company's Annual Report
               on Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1989).

(10.9)         Employee Stock Purchase and
               Bonus Plan as amended and
               restated effective January 1,
               1992 (Incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 10.16 to the
               Company's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1991). 

(10.10)        Company's Flexible Perquisite
               Program as amended to January
               1, 1989 (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the
               Company's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1989).

(10.11)        Form of 1986 Management
               Assurance Agreement (Revised
               1990) between the Company
               and certain executive officers
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.22 to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the year ended December 31,
               1989).

(10.12)        Company's Third Amended and
               Restated Compensation Plan for
               Non-Employee Directors as
               amended to January 1, 1992. 
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
               Registration Statement on Form
               S-8 filed January 13, 1992).

(10.13)        Company's Outside Directors
               Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
               dated January 22, 1988
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the year ended December 31,
               1987).

(10.14)        First Amendment to Outside
               Directors Nonqualified Stock
               Option Plan (Amending Exhibit
               10.13) (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the
               Company's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1991).

(10.15)        Second Amendment to Outside
               Directors Nonqualified Stock
               Option Plan (Amending Exhibit
               10.13) (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the
               Company's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1991).

(10.16)        Pentair, Inc. Deferred
               Compensation Plan effective
               January 1, 1993 (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the
               Company's Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31,
               1992).

(10.17)        Lake Superior Paper Industries
               Venture Council By-Laws and
               Management Protocol
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the year ended December 31,
               1985).

(10.18)        Second Amended and Restated
               Joint Venture Agreement dated
               December 31, 1987 between
               Pentair Duluth Corp. and
               Minnesota Paper, Incorporated
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.25 to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the year ended December 31,
               1987).

(10.19)        First Amendment to Second
               Restated Joint Venture
               Agreement, First Amendment to
               Venture Council By-Laws, and
               First Amendment to
               Management Protocol, all dated
               May 30, 1989, between Pentair
               Duluth Corp. and Minnesota
               Paper, Incorporated (Amending
               Exhibits 10.17 and 10.18)
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.28 to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the year ended December 31,
               1989).

(10.20)        Cash Deficiency Agreement
               dated December 31, 1987
               among Pentair Duluth Corp., as
               Joint Venturer, Associated
               Southern Investment Company,
               as Owner Participant, The
               Connecticut Bank and Trust
               Company, National Association,
               as Indenture Trustee, and First
               National Bank of Minneapolis, as
               Owner Trustee.  Cash Deficiency
               Agreements also were entered
               into with respect to each of the
               other four Owner Participants: 
               Dana Lease Finance
               Corporation, NYNEX Credit
               Company, Public Service
               Resources Corporation, and
               Southern Indiana Properties, Inc.
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 1
               to the Company's Current Report
               on Form 8-K filed April 26,
               1988).

(10.21)        Keepwell Agreement and
               Assignment dated December 31,
               1987 among Pentair, Inc., as
               Sponsor, Pentair Duluth Corp.,
               as Joint Venturer, and First
               National Bank of Minneapolis, as
               Owner Trustee; although First
               Minneapolis executed this filed
               document as Owner Trustee for
               Associated Southern Investment
               Company, additional Keepwell
               Agreements and Assignments
               were entered into by First
               Minneapolis as Owner Trustee
               for the other four Owner
               Participants listed in the
               description of Exhibit 10.20
               above (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
               Amendment No. 1 to the
               Company's Current Report on
               Form 8-K filed April 26, 1988).

(10.22)        Definition of Terms for Financing
               Agreement dated December 31,
               1987 and the Transaction
               Documents Referred to Therein: 
               Sale and Leaseback of
               Undivided Interest in Lake
               Superior Paper Industries'
               Supercalendered Paper Mill;
               although this filed document
               supplies the definitions
               applicable to the agreements
               filed as Exhibits 10.20 and 10.21
               above, there were four additional
               sets of definitions that supply the
               definitions for the other sets of
               agreements referred to in the
               descriptions of those Exhibits
               with respect to the various Owner
               Participants (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
               Amendment No. 1 to the
               Company's Current Report on
               Form 8-K filed April 26, 1988).

(10.23)        Loan and Stock Purchase
               Agreement dated March 7, 1990
               between the Company and the
               Pentair, Inc. Employee Stock
               Ownership Plan Trust, acting
               through State Street Bank and
               Trust Company, as Trustee
               (Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
               Current Report on Form 8-K filed
               March 21, 1990).

(10.24)        $56,499,982 Promissory Note
               dated March 7, 1990 of the
               Pentair, Inc. Employee Stock
               Ownership Plan Trust, acting
               through State Street Bank and
               Trust Company, as Trustee, to
               the Company (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
               Company's Current Report on
               Form 8-K filed March 21, 1990).

(11)           Statement regarding
               computation of earnings per
               share. 

(13)           Annual Report to Shareholders
               for period ended December 31,
               1994.

(21)           Subsidiaries of Registrant.

(24)           Consent of Deloitte & Touche. 



