
10-K



                                

      UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                  Washington, D. C.  20549

                         FORM 10-K
       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
           OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

               Commission File No. 001-11625

                       PENTAIR, INC.
   (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Minnesota                                    41-0907434
(State  of  incorporation)      (I.R.S.  Employer Identification Number)

1500  County  Road  B2  West, Suite 400,  Saint  Paul,  Minnesota 55113-3105
(Address of principal executive offices)                          (Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code
                        651-636-7920

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of each class        Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, Par Value 
$.16 2/3  per share             New York Stock Exchange

Rights                          New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate  by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed  all
reports  required  to be filed by Section  13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding  12  months
(or  for such shorter period that the Registrant was required  to
file  such  reports),  and (2) has been subject  to  such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   X    No

Indicate  by  check  mark  if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
pursuant  to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
in  definitive  proxy or information statements  incorporated  by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to  this
Form 10-K. [     ]

The  aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates
of  the  Registrant  on  March 1, 1999  was  $1.4  billion.   For
purposes  of  this calculation, all shares held by  officers  and
directors of the Registrant and by the trustees of employee stock
ownership  plans (ESOPs) and pension plans of the Registrant  and
subsidiaries were deemed to be shares held by affiliates.

The  number of shares outstanding of Registrant's only  class  of
common stock on March 1, 1999 was 42,700,169.

The exhibit index as required by Item 601(a) of Regulation S-K is
included in Item 14 of Part IV of this report.

Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of the registrant's
definitive  Proxy  Statement  for  the  1999  Annual  Meeting  of
Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part  III  of  this
Report.



                           PART I


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

(a)  General Development of the Business.

Pentair, Inc. (the "Company" or "Pentair")  was  incorporated 
in  1966  under  the  laws  of Minnesota.  In the past year, 
the Company has not changed  its form  of  organization  
or  mode  of  conducting  business.   The Company  grows 
through internal development and  acquisitions. As in the past, 
periodic dispositions of assets or business units are   possible  
when  they  no  longer  fit  with  the  long-term strategies of the Company.

Effective January 1, 1994, the Company acquired the net assets
and  the subsidiaries of Schroff GmbH (Schroff) from Fried. Krupp
AG  Hoesch-Krupp.   Schroff manufactures  and  sells  enclosures,
cases,  subracks  and accessories for commercial  electronic  and
instrumentation applications.

In  September  1994,  Pentair announced  that  it  was  exploring
strategic alternatives for its paper businesses, including  their
possible sale.  In the second quarter of 1995, all of the Pentair
paper  businesses were sold.  On April 1, 1995 the  Company  sold
its  Cross Pointe Paper Corporation subsidiary to Noranda Forest,
Inc.   On  June  30, 1995 the Company sold Niagara  of  Wisconsin
Paper   Corporation,  its  50%  share  of  Lake  Superior   Paper
Industries  (LSPI)  joint venture and its 12% share  of  Superior
Recycled Fiber Industries (SRFI) to Consolidated Papers, Inc.

The  sale of its paper businesses has permitted Pentair to  focus
its   commitments  and  resources  on  its  industrial   products
businesses,  building upon the strong growth and  leading  market
positions these businesses have achieved.

Effective  November 1, 1995, the Company acquired Fleck Controls,
Inc.,   a  manufacturer  of  control  valves,  which  are   major
components  in  residential water softeners, and  commercial  and
industrial  water  conditioning  systems.   Fleck  Controls   was
Pentair's first entry into the water treatment industry.

During  1996,  the Company completed four strategic  acquisitions
that  strengthened  market positions throughout  the  world.   In
January,  Myers  acquired Aplex to broaden  its  industrial  pump
line.   In June, Porter-Cable acquired FLEX, a German power  tool
company.     In   November,   the   Company   acquired    Century
Manufacturing,  a  manufacturer  that  serves  service  equipment
markets,  complementing  its Lincoln Automotive  subsidiary.   In
December, Fleck Controls purchased SIATA, an Italian manufacturer
of water conditioning control equipment.

During 1997, the Company completed 3 strategic acquisitions.   In
January,  Schroff  France acquired Transrack  S.A.,  a  maker  of
complementary   cases   and   enclosures.    In   July,   Century
Manufacturing  acquired  P  &  F  Technologies  ,  a   maker   of
refrigerant recycling equipment.  In August, Pentair acquired the
General  Signal Pump Group in a significant acquisition  designed
to  create  a  critical  mass in the water  and  wastewater  pump
markets.

Also  in  1997,  in  another strategic development,  the  Company
divested its Federal Cartridge sporting ammunition business.

In  the  fourth  quarter  of  1997,  the  Company  realigned  its
subsidiaries into 3 operating groups to reflect its growing focus
in its addressed markets: Professional Tools and Equipment, Water
and  Fluid Technologies and Electrical and Electronic Enclosures.
Delta International, Porter-Cable, Lincoln Automotive and Century
Manufacturing  make  up  the  Professional  Tools  and  Equipment
segment,  which  markets its products to professional  users  and
sophisticated  individual users through  similar  channels.   The
Water and Fluid Technologies segment consists of the Pentair Pump
Group, Fleck Controls, and Lincoln Industrial, all of which share
aspects   of  manufacturing  process,  applied  technology,   and
distribution  channels. Pentair's Hoffman and Schroff  enclosures
businesses  comprise  the  Electrical and  Electronic  Enclosures
segment.

During 1998, the Company completed 3 strategic acquisitions.   In
January, Pentair acquired ORSCO, Inc., a maker of oil lubrication
systems.  In April, Century Manufacturing acquired the assets  of
T-Tech  Industries,  a  maker  of  automatic  transmission  fluid
exchangers  and  accessories.  In October, Pentair  acquired  The
Walker  Dickson  Group Limited (now Pentair Enclosures  U.K. and
its subsidiaries),  a maker of custom and standard enclosures, 
subracks and systems.


(b)  Financial Information about Industry Segments.

Pentair  has three reportable segments: Professional Tools
and Equipment (PTE), Water and Fluid Technologies (WFT), and
Electrical and Electronic Enclosures (EEE).    The PTE segment
includes Delta International Machinery, Porter-Cable, Lincoln
Automotive and Century Manufacturing.  Products manufactured
include woodworking machinery, portable power tools, lubricating
and lifting equipment, battery charging and testing equipment,
and welding equipment.  The WFT segment includes the Pentair Pump
Group, Fleck Controls and Lincoln Industrial.  Products
manufactured include pumps for wells and water treatment, sump
pumps, valves for water softeners, and automated and manual
lubrication systems and equipment.  The EEE segment includes
Hoffman Enclosures, Schroff and Pentair Enclosures U.K.  Products
manufactured include metallic and composite cases, subracks, and
cabinets that house and protect electrical and electronic
controls, instruments, and components. Other includes corporate
expenses, captive insurance company, intermediate financial
companies, charges that do not relate to current operations,
divested operations (Federal Cartridge), and intercompany
eliminations.  Segment assets exclude all cash and cash
equivalents.

In evaluating financial performance, management focuses on
operating income as a segment's measure of profit or loss.
Operating income is before interest expense, interest income and
income taxes.  Management uses a variety of balance sheet ratios
to measure the business.  The primary focus is on maximizing the
return from each segment's assets, excluding cash and temporary
investments. The accounting policies of the segments are the same
as those described in the summary of significant accounting
policies (Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
Most intersegment sales are component parts and are sold
at cost plus an equitable division of manufacturing
and marketing profits.  The remaining intercompany sales are
finished product and are sold based on current market pricing to
third parties.


(c) Narrative  Description of Business.

Description of the Professional Tools and Equipment Segment:
  Products; markets; competition

Products  include:  a full line of homeshop products,  contractor
tools,  general  purpose  stationary woodworking  machinery,  and
accessories;  air-powered  nailing  products,  portable  electric
tools  including  saws, routers, sanders, grinders,  drills,  and
cordless  tools;  and  lubricating tools and  equipment,  battery
charging and testing equipment, lifting equipment, portable power
supplies,    refrigerant   and   coolant   recyclers,   automatic
transmission  fluid  exchangers,  arc  and  MIG  welders,  plasma
cutters, and welding accessories.

The  products are sold in the United States, Canada, and overseas
under  the  brand  names Delta, Biesemeyer,  Porter-Cable,  FLEX,
Lincoln,  Blackhawk Automotive, Marquette, Guardian, Pro-Arc,  T-
Tech, Century, Solar, Booster Pac, Cobra, and Viper.

Products are sold through various channels, including networks of
independent  industrial and warehouse distributors, home  centers
and  national retailers, hardware stores, and through mail  order
and  catalogues.  Certain service equipment is sold under private
label  programs.  The explosive growth in the home center channel
in  the last few years has resulted in a significant increase  in
PTE  tool  sales through this channel.  Nationwide, home  centers
have  become the primary channel for all sales of power and bench
top tools to end users.  While warehouse distributors continue to
be  the  most  significant channel for service  equipment  sales,
product entry into retail and home center stores has continued to
grow.

Tool  markets  include do-it-yourself(DIY)/homeshop; residential,
commercial, and industrial construction; remodeling and  cabinet,
case good and furniture makers. Service equipment markets include
industrial  fabrication and maintenance,  automotive  repair  and
vehicle   maintenance,   farm  and  industrial   equipment;   and
aftermarket  and  retail  channels for  professional  and  do-it-
yourself automotive and body repair.

Competition in the PTE segment has been intense and growing  more
so  for  the  past  few  years, especially  as  these  industries
consolidate.  The tool markets have become extremely competitive,
as  a  few  large  players remain each having  extensive  product
lines.  The Company's tool businesses are no longer perceived  as
niche  players, but have become significant general  competitors,
even  though  their  addressed market of professional  users  and
higher-end DIY customers does not extend into the larger  general
consumer tool markets.  Each of the businesses in the PTE segment
faces a number of competitors, many of whom are larger, have more
resources and are more fully integrated.  Growth in these markets
should  come  from product development, continued penetration  of
expanding   market  channels  and  acquisitions.    Patents   and
proprietary  technology  are becoming more  significant  in  this
market.

Competition  at  the  end-user level focuses primarily  on  brand
names,  product performance and features, quality,  service  and,
most importantly, price.  The competition for shelf space at home
centers and national retailers is particularly intense, demanding
continuing  product  innovation, special inventory  and  delivery
programs, after-sale service capability and competitive  pricing.
The  strategy of the businesses in the PTE segment is to  be  the
price/quality leader in its selected markets.  Their  success  in
maintaining  their  respective positions in  the  marketplace  is
largely  due  to  continuing  product  feature  innovations,  new
products  and outsourcing and other cost-reduction measures.   As
leaders  in  their markets, these businesses are able to  command
access  for their products in the most important channels in  the
face of growing competition.

Description of the Water and Fluid Technologies Segment:
    Products; markets; competition

Products  include: pumps for wells,  sump pumps  for  residential
service,  submersible non-clog and grinder pumps and systems  for
residential, commercial, and municipal service, pumps  for  water
treatment   and  wastewater  solid  handling,  fire  pumps,   and
reciprocating,  turbine, submersible, and centrifugal  pumps  for
commercial  and industrial services; a complete line  of  control
valves used in the manufacture of water softeners and filtration,
deionization, and desalination systems; and automated and  manual
lubrication systems and equipment, pumps and pumping stations for
fluid transfer applications.

The  products are sold in the United States, Canada, and overseas
under  the  brand  names Myers, Aplex, Fairbanks  Morse,  Aurora,
Water  Ace, Shur Dri, Hydromatic, Fleck, SIATA, Lincoln,  Lincoln
Industrial, and ORSCO.

Products are sold through various channels, including the  do-it-
yourself market for retail sale through home centers and hardware
stores,  by specially qualified systems distributors with design,
installation  and  service capability, through industrial  supply
and specialty distributors and stores, directly by internal sales
organizations, and through national catalog distribution.

Markets  include wholesale and retail distribution to residential
users;   commercial  HVAC,  plumbing,  and  fire  pump   markets;
municipal  waste  and water treatment facilities  and  industrial
companies;   manufacturers who supply residential and  commercial
markets   with  standard  and  custom  designed  water   softener
products;  and heavy industry (steel mills, cement  plants,  pulp
and  paper,  power plants), automobile manufacturers,  commercial
vehicles, agriculture, construction equipment, food and beverage,
mining, printing, and general lubrication markets.

The  water  and  waste  water  pump industry  has  experienced  a
significant trend toward consolidation in 1997, evidenced in part
by  the  acquisitions of Goulds Pump, Inc. by ITT Corporation and 
of the former General Signal  Pump  Group  by Pentair.  The latter 
acquisition  by  the Company  significantly expanded the number,  
range  and  targeted markets  of  the  Pentair Pump Group.  
The Company  continues  to rationalize  the  product  lines,  
facilities  and  manufacturing operations  of  these  businesses  
to  cut  costs  and   increase efficiencies.  The water treatment 
industry is also  experiencing rapid   consolidation,  as  evidenced  
by  United States Filter Corporation's 1997 acquisition of Culligan
Water Technologies, Inc., both current customers of the  Company's
water   conditioning  valve  business.   There  are   two   major
independent  valve  suppliers,  including  the  Company,  and   a
restricted  number of small independent suppliers.  In  addition,
there   are  a  number  of  captive  valve  manufacturers   whose
production  is  used  to  support  their  own  sales   of   water
conditioning  systems.   Growth  will  come  largely  from  niche
acquisitions and product development.

Competition  in  the  commercial  and  residential  pump  markets
focuses  on brand names, product performance, quality and  price.
While  home  center  and  national retailers  are  important  for
residential  lines of water and wastewater pumps, they  are  much
less  important  in commercial pump markets.  In  municipal  pump
markets,   competition   focuses  on  performance   to   required
specification,  service  and price.   Competition  in  the  water
treatment  component  market focuses on product  performance  and
design, quality, delivery and price.

Description of the Electrical and Electronic Enclosures Segment:
    Products; markets; competition

Products  include metallic and composite enclosures and  cabinets
that  house electrical and electronic controls, instruments,  and
components,  cabinets,  cases, subracks, microcomputer  packaging
systems   as  well  as  a  full  line  of  accessories  including
backplanes, power supplies, and technical workstations.  Products
manufactured fall within two broad groups, standard and  modified
standard products and custom-designed products.

The  products are sold in the United States, Canada, and overseas
under the brand names Hoffman, Schroff, Transrack, Optima, Eraba,
Electronic Enclosures, and Pentair Enclosures.

Segment  products  are sold in three primary markets:  electrical
enclosures  in  North  America, the channel  which  is  primarily
through industrial electrical distribution; electronic enclosures
throughout the world, sold primarily through electronic equipment
distributors and to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs);  and
information   and   communication   technology   (ICT)   products
throughout the world, marketed primarily to OEMs.  The company is
increasingly focusing efforts on serving the latter  two  faster-
growing markets in the US and abroad both through acquisition and
through modified standard and custom-designed products.

Industrial  markets  include manufacturing  industries  in  which
electrical and electronic controls require protection from  harsh
factory   floor  environments,  plant  maintenance  and   repair,
commercial  construction and electrical equipment  manufacturers.
Commercial   electronic  markets  include  computer,   test   and
measurement,  industrial  control  and  factory  automation,  and
medical industries.  Finally, ICT products are found in the  LAN,
data communication and telecommunication industries.

Competition in product markets can be very intense, especially in
electronic  and ICT markets.  Finally, growth in the EEE  segment
will  likely  come  from development of distribution,  growth  in
defined  modification  product  offerings,  product  development,
geographic expansion and acquisitions.

Competition  in  each  of the three product  markets  focuses  on
price,  product  features and innovation,  service,  quality  and
delivery.

Information Regarding All Segments:

    Status of new products.

The  industries in which the segments participate are essentially
mature and do not experience the introduction of new products  or
technologies  that materially change the nature of the  industry.
Nonetheless, new product development or improvement becomes  more
important for sales growth and channel penetration.  The  Company
emphasizes  product  development in all  its  segments;  products
introduced  within  the  last five years average  30%  of  annual
sales.   No single new product constitutes a material  amount  of
sales.

    Raw materials.

The  raw  materials  used  in Pentair's  manufacturing  processes
include  steel  (bar  and  sheet), brass,  copper,  aluminum  and
various  other  metals and plastics.  Selected motors,  castings,
plastic  parts and components are also purchased.  The supply  of
all  raw materials and components is currently adequate.  The PTE
and  WFT  segments import a significant dollar amount of selected
products  and  components from Taiwan and China,  the  supply  of
which is also currently adequate.

    Patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises and concessions.

Pentair's businesses own a number of U.S. and foreign patents and
trademarks.  They have been acquired over many years  and  relate
to many products and improvements.  No single patent or trademark
is   of   material  importance  to  any  segment,  though  patent
protection  is  a significant competitive tool  in  each  of  the
segments.

    Seasonal aspects and working capital items.

No material portion of Pentair's business is of a highly seasonal
nature.   The  PTE segment, however, has historically experienced
strong  fourth  quarter  and  weaker  first  quarter  sales   and
billings,  due  in part to holiday retail sales.  Reflecting  the
somewhat  seasonal  impact of the PTE  segment  and  the  growing
importance  of  home  center business,  there  is  a  buildup  of
inventory in the third quarter in anticipation of fourth  quarter
shipments.

    Dependence on limited number of customers.

The  Company as a whole is not dependent on a single customer  or
on  a  few  customers.  The loss of a limited number of customers
would not have a material adverse impact on the Company's results
of  operations.  The single largest customer of the Company as  a
whole accounted for approximately 8% of sales in 1998.

    Backlog.

Other  than  for some municipal water system pumps, the  segments
normally  have few products with long lead times.  The nature  of
the  businesses emphasizes maintaining inventories sufficient  to
satisfy  customer  needs  on  a  timely  basis.   Production  and
sourcing  is  geared  towards providing adequate  inventories  in
order  to  minimize customer back orders.  Accordingly,  backlogs
are   not   material  to  understanding  the  sales   trends   or
manufacturing fluctuations of the segments.

    Government contracts.

The  Company has no significant portion of sales under federal
government  contracts  that may be subject  to  renegotiation  of
profits  or  termination  of contracts at  the  election  of  the
government.

    Research and Development.

Pentair's   businesses  have  not  historically  undertaken   any
significant  basic or applied research, since  the  products  and
processes involved are more traditional and are well known to all
competitors.  As discussed above, however, each of the  segments,
especially PTE, undertakes extensive product development work  in
order  to  continue improvements in features and costs.  Overall,
Pentair's businesses spent over 1.2% of sales on such development
in  1998  and 1997.  See also Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Item 8.

    Environmental Matters

See  Management's Discussion and Analysis and Note 9 of Notes  to
the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.

    Employees.

As  of  December  31, 1998, the Company and  its  subsidiaries
employed approximately 10,500 persons world-wide.  Total employees
in the United States were approximately 7,180 of which 1,613 were
represented   by   trade  unions  having  collective   bargaining
agreements (22.5%).

Labor  contracts  negotiated in 1998: IAM Local 1297  -  Ashland,
Ohio (extended to 7 April 2003) approximately 330 employees;  IAM
Local  9  -  St.  Louis, Missouri (extended  to  30  April  2001)
approximately 160 employees; United Steelworkers of America Local
8630   -   Tupelo,  Mississippi  (extended  to   1   June   2001)
approximately  165  employees; Teamsters  Local  984  -  Memphis,
Tennessee (extended to 31 March 2000) approximately 85 employees;
UAW  Local 1612 - Pennsauken, New Jersey (extended to 30 November
2001) approximately 50 employees.

Contracts  expiring  in 1999: International Union  of  Electrical
Workers   -   Jonesboro,   Arkansas  (expires   4   April   1999)
approximately 205 employees.

The  Company considers its employee and labor relations to  be
good  and believes future contracts will be able to be negotiated
on terms beneficial to the businesses and their employees.


(d)  Financial Information about Foreign Operations.

The  Company operates primarily in North America,  Europe  and
Asia.

Segment Geographic Information:


Revenues are attributed to countries based on location of
customer.  Assets are based on the geographic location of the
subsidiary and have been translated into $U.S. dollars.


              EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following are the executive officers of the Registrant.
Their term of office extends until the next annual meeting of the
Board of Directors, scheduled for April 28, 1999.

Louis L. Ainsworth                   51
Senior Vice President and General Counsel since July 1997;
Shareholder and Officer of the law firm of Henson & Efron, 
P.A., November 1985 - June 1997.

Winslow H. Buxton                    59
Chairman since January 1993; President and Chief Executive
Officer since August 1992.

Richard J. Cathcart                  54
Executive Vice President since February 1996; Executive Vice
President, Corporate Development March 1995 - February 1996; Vice
President, Business Development of Honeywell, Inc. 1994 - March
1995.

Joseph R. Collins                    57
Vice-Chairman since November 1998; Executive Vice President March
1995 - October 1998; Acting Chief Financial Officer, June 1993 -
March 1994; Senior Vice President - Specialty Products August
1991 - February 1995.

George M. Danko                      48
Vice President, Corporate Development since October, 1997;
General Manager of Sales Operations of General Electric's
Electrical Distribution and Control Division September 1994 -
October 1997; General Manager Tektronix Test & Measurement
Division June 1992 - August 1994.

Karen A. Durant                      39
Vice President, Controller since September 1997; Controller
January 1996 - August, 1997; Assistant Controller September 1994
- - December 1995; Director of Financial Planning and Control of
Hoffman Enclosures Inc. (subsidiary of Registrant) October 1989 -
August 1994.

Randall J. Hogan                     43
Executive Vice President since March 1998; President of United
Technologies' Carrier Transicold Division 1995 - 1997; Vice
President and General Manager Pratt & Whitney Turbo Power &
Marine Division 1994 - 1995.

Richard W. Ingman                    54
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August
1996; President of Hoffman Enclosures Inc. (subsidiary of
Registrant) March 1994 - July 1996; Vice President of Corporate
Development August 1989 - February 1994.

Debby S. Knutson                     44
Vice President, Human Resources since September 1994; Assistant
Vice President, Human Resources , August 1993 - September 1994.

Roy T. Rueb                          58
Vice President, Treasurer since October 1986 and Secretary since
June 1994.

James A. White                       53
Executive Vice President since November 1998; Senior Vice
President, Professional Tools Businesses July 1997 - October
1998; President of Porter-Cable Corporation (subsidiary of
Registrant) December 1991 - June 1997.

There is no family relationship between any of the executive
officers or directors.


Item 2.  Properties

The Company and its subsidiaries operate in 56 manufacturing
and distribution locations in North America, Europe and Asia.
The Company owns most of its facilities with the exception of
the following major facilities which are leased or leased under
special tax increment financing: in the United States - Mt.
Sterling, KY; Jackson, TN; Kansas City, KS; Aurora, IL; Ashland,
OH (Hydromatic) and in France - Betschdorf, France.

The number, type, location and estimated size of the Company's
properties are shown on the following charts, by segment.
(Professional Tools and Equipment - PTE; Water and Fluid
Technologies - WFT; Electrical and Electronic Enclosures - EEE)




Management believes that its owned and leased facilities are well
maintained and suitable for the operations conducted.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.

The Company or its subsidiaries have been made parties to actions
filed, or have been given notice of potential claims, relating to
the conduct of its business, including those pertaining to
product liability, environmental, safety and health, patent
infringement, and employment matters.  Major matters that may
have an impact on the Company are discussed below.  The Company
believes that the outcome of such legal proceedings and claims
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial position, liquidity, or future results of operations,
based on current circumstances known to the Company.

Environmental Claims.  The Company and its current subsidiaries
have been named as defendants, targets or potentially responsible
parties (PRPs) in a small number of environmental cleanups, in
which the Company or its current or former business units have
generally been given de minimis status.  None of these claims
have resulted to date in cleanup costs, fines, penalties or
damages in an amount material to Company's financial condition or
results of operations.  The Company has disposed of a number of
businesses over the past ten years; in certain cases, such as the
disposition of Company's Cross Pointe Paper Corporation uncoated
paper business in 1995 and the disposition of its Federal Cartridge Company
ammunition business in 1997, Company has retained responsibility for 
some or all environmental obligations and potential liability.   The
Company has established what it believes to be, based on current
circumstances known to it, adequate accruals for potential
liabilities arising out of these retained responsibilities.

In addition to retained obligations relating to these disposed
operations, there are pending environmental issues concerning a
site in Jackson, Tennessee, on which the state environmental
agency has opened an investigation.  The Company acquired the
site from Rockwell International Corporation, with whom the Company has
agreed on division of responsibility for remediation and other
future costs relating to the site.  The Company does not believe,
however, that projected response costs, as currently known, will
result in material liability or material changes in operations.

Product Liability Claims.   As of March 1, 1999, the Company
or its subsidiaries are defendants in approximately 127 product
liability lawsuits and have been notified of approximately 179
additional claims.  The Company has had and currently has in
place insurance coverage it deems adequate for its needs.  A
substantial number of these lawsuits and claims are insured and
accrued for by Penwald Insurance Company ("Penwald"), a 
regulated insurance company wholly owned by the Company.  
See discussion in Item 7 (Management's Discussion & Analysis 
- -Insurance Subsidiary) and Item 8 (Note 1 of Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements - Insurance Subsidiary). 
Accounting accruals covering the deductible portion of 
liability claims not covered by Penwald have been established 
and are reviewed on a regular basis.  The Company has not 
experienced unfavorable trends in either the severity or 
frequency of product liability claims.

Patent Infringement Claims.   In late 1998, The Black & Decker
Corporation ("Black & Decker"), a competitor of the Company 
in its PTE segment, commenced litigation against the Company's 
Porter-Cable business claiming patent infringement over the new 
Porter-Cable plate joiner.  At trial, Black & Decker sought 
$14 million in compensatory damages and removal of the 
plate joiner from the market.  In late February 1999,
the jury found for Black & Decker on a limited number of
its claims and awarded $1 million in damages.  Porter-
Cable intends to appeal from the judgment, as it believes that
there was no infringement of the Black & Decker patent at issue.
The Company understands that Black & Decker will likely also
appeal this case.  In order to minimize the liklihood of future
claims, Porter-Cable changed the design of the plate joiner 
involved shortly after its introduction.


Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
During the fourth quarter, no matter was submitted to a vote of
security holders.


                             PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
         Shareholder Matters.

(a)    Market Information
       Pentair  Common  Stock is listed on  the  New  York  Stock
       Exchange under the symbol "PNR".


(b)    Holders of the Corporation's Capital Stock
       As  of  December  31, 1998, there were  4,432  holders  of
       record of the Corporation's Common Stock.

(c)    Dividends
       In  December  1998, the board of directors  increased  the
       cash   dividend  to  $.16  per  share  quarterly  for   an
       indicated annual rate of $.64 per share.  Pentair has  now
       paid  92 consecutive quarterly dividends, and in each year
       since  1976,  the  amount  of  the  dividend  payment  has
       increased.   See  Note  6  of Notes  to  the  Consolidated
       Financial Statements for certain dividend restrictions.

       Quarterly  dividends per common share for the most  recent
       two years are as follows:


(d)    Annual Meeting of Stockholders
       The   1999   Annual   Meeting  of  Shareholders   of   the
       Corporation is scheduled to be held on April 28,  1999  at
       10:00  a.m.  at  the  Northland Inn &  Conference  Center,
       Minneapolis, Minnesota.



Item 6.Selected Financial Data.



All  Share  and  Per  Share Data adjusted  for  stock  dividends.
(a)   1992 - before the cumulative effects of accounting changes.
(b)   From continuing operations.

Item 7.Management's   Discussion  and   Analysis   of   Financial
       Condition and Results of Operations.

Management's Discussion and Analysis

Strategic Direction

Pentair grows its businesses through innovative marketing and
product design and intensive productivity improvement, coupled
with capital investment, and employee training and participation.
Pentair has chosen to focus these skills on its three core
markets of Professional Tools and Equipment (PTE), Water and
Fluid Technologies (WFT), and Electrical and Electronic
Enclosures (EEE).  During the last four years, Pentair has
divested its paper businesses (1995) and Federal Cartridge (1997)
and has made twelve acquisitions in its three core markets.


Results of Operations



*Other includes corporate expenses, captive insurance company,
intermediate financial companies, charges that do not relate to
current operations, divested operations (Federal) and intercompany
eliminations.


CONSOLIDATED
1998 VERSUS 1997
Consolidated net sales increased to $1,937.6 million in 1998,
representing a 5.4% increase over 1997(up over 13% excluding the
1997 sales of Federal Cartridge, divested in November 1997).  PTE
and WFT posted double-digit growth rates, with the latter
including the full year effect of a 1997 pump business
acquisition.  EEE segment experienced lower sales due to soft
capital spending environments in the U.S. and the overall German
and Asian economies.

Operating income increased to $193.2 million in 1998, up 13.8%
over 1997, which as a percent of sales improved from 9.2% to
10.0%.  Profitability improved due to volume efficiencies,
favorable outsourcing opportunities, and manufacturing/purchasing
efficiencies resulting from the integration of acquired pump
businesses.  Gross profit margins improved to 31.3% in 1998
versus 29.8% in 1997.  Research and development expenses were
1.2% of net sales versus 1.2% in 1997.  Selling, general and
administrative expense (SG&A) as a percent of sales was 20.2% in
1998 as compared to 19.4% in 1997.  The Company continues to
incur costs to support major information system upgrades (which
are starting to be offset by the associated cost improvements)
and expenses were incurred to implement company-wide process
improvement and cost savings programs with benefits beginning in
1999.

Interest expense was higher in 1998 as compared to 1997 due to
slightly higher effective interest rates.

The Company's effective income tax rate was 37.5% in 1998.  The
comparable 1997 tax rate (excluding the unusual tax impact on the
sale of Federal) was 39.0%.

Net income increased 16.6% to $106.8 million versus $91.6 million
in 1997.  EPS of $2.46 in 1998 represented an increase of 16.6%
over 1997 EPS of $2.11.  Excluding the $0.03 gain from the sale
of Federal in 1997, there was an 18.3 percent increase over 1997.


1997 VERSUS 1996
Consolidated net sales increased to $1,839.1 million in 1997,
representing a 17.4% increase over 1996.  The double-digit growth
rate is attributable to additional strategic acquisitions and
continued growth in North America.   Outside of North America,
difficult European markets and weak local currencies limited the
growth of sales in dollar terms.

Operating income increased to $169.8 million in 1997, up 18.8%
over 1996.  Operating income as a percent of sales improved
slightly from 9.1% to 9.2%.  Significant margin gains in most
existing businesses were nearly offset by the lower operating
margins of our recent acquisitions.  Strategic investments were
made throughout all the operating segments to position the
Company for continued productivity gains, increased capacity and
improved customer service and satisfaction.  Gross profit margins
were maintained, remaining nearly flat at 29.8% in 1997 versus
29.9% in 1996.  Research and development expenses increased to
1.2% of net sales versus 1.0% in 1996 due to the increasing
stream of new products.  Selling, general and administrative
expense (SG&A) as a percent of sales was 19.4% in 1997 as
compared to 19.8% in 1996.  The Company continued to incur costs
to support major information system upgrades, which are starting
to be offset by the associated cost improvements.

Interest expense was higher in 1997 as compared to 1996 due to
slightly higher effective interest rates and higher average
outstanding debt levels in 1997, influenced by the acquisition of
the pump business in August and the sale of Federal in November.

Pentair sold its Federal Cartridge Company to Blount
International, Inc., in November 1997, realizing a $10.3 million
pre-tax gain. This gain was reduced by $9.1 million of taxes,
resulting in a net gain of $1.2 million, or $.03 per share.
Sales and operating income for Federal through the first 10
months of 1997 improved over the levels of their very difficult
1996.

Taxes on the gain from the sale of Federal were greater than the
Company's normal tax rate due to non-deductible goodwill created
as part of the original structure of the 1988 Federal-Hoffman
acquisition.  The Company's effective income tax rate of 42.2%
includes this incremental tax from the gain on sale.  The tax
rate excluding the gain on the sale of Federal was 39.0% as
compared to 40.2% in 1996.

Net income increased 22.9% to $91.6 million versus $74.5 million
in 1996.  EPS of $2.11 in 1997 represented an increase of 22.0%
over 1996 EPS of $1.73.  EPS without the gain from the sale of
Federal was $2.08, a 20 percent increase over 1996.


OUTLOOK
Pentair is focused on three core markets.  This diversification
enables the Company to consistently improve results despite
difficult markets in one or another segment.  Continuing demand
for power tools and service equipment, ever-rising needs for
clean water throughout the world, and the critical importance of
protecting sensitive electronics give Pentair's chosen businesses
excellent prospects for strong long-term performance.  The
Company's basic operating strategies - ongoing cost containment,
new product development, multi-channel distribution, and the
pursuit of value-added acquisitions - drive the businesses in
both growing and softer economies.  The Pentair Accelerating
Competitive Excellence (PACE) Project is a corporate-wide process
redesign and cost savings program implemented in 1998 which
management believes will improve operating efficiencies and
therefore performance.

The Company continues to look for synergistic acquisitions in
each of its business segments, in line with its pattern over the
past four years.  Of the past twelve acquisitions, most were
smaller businesses or product lines, which fit with existing
operations, offering new products, or expanded geographic scope.
Two, however, were stand-alone strategic acquisitions of large
established businesses, that helped create Pentair's Water and
Fluid Technologies segment.  Pentair intends to continue to
pursue smaller, bolt-on purchases, but will also carefully review
larger targets, which have the capability to significantly expand
its current segments, or in appropriate cases, to establish an
additional business segment.


SEGMENT DISCUSSION

Pentair operates in three segments: Professional Tools and
Equipment (PTE), Water and Fluid Technologies (WFT), and
Electrical and Electronic Enclosures (EEE).


PROFESSIONAL TOOLS and EQUIPMENT

The PTE segment includes Delta International Machinery, Porter-
Cable, Lincoln Automotive and Century Manufacturing.  Products
manufactured include woodworking machinery, portable power tools,
battery charging and testing equipment, welding equipment, and
lubricating and lifting equipment.

1998 VERSUS 1997
PTE sales increased by $102.2 million or 13.7%.  These businesses
continue to outperform their markets, upholding a performance
record that includes three consecutive years of double-digit
sales growth and five consecutive years of double-digit operating
income growth.  The tool businesses continued to introduce
innovative new products such as a plate joiner and jigsaw and
expanded its offering of pneumatic nailers, staplers and
accessories.  The service equipment business increased sales of
Booster Pacs and expanded its automotive offering with the product
line acquisition of T-Tech automatic transmission fluid
exchangers.

Operating income as a percent of sales increased to 12.7% in 1998
from 11.3% in 1997.  Profitability increased in the tool business
due to favorable sourcing opportunities and volume efficiencies.
Profitability also increased in the service equipment business
due to productivity improvements and facility rationalizations.

1997 VERSUS 1996
PTE sales increased by $164.4 million or 28.2%.  The full year
effect of 1996 acquisitions contributed to less than half of the
growth in sales.  Substantial growth was achieved in the tool
business due to the introduction of new products, increased brand
awareness and continued expansion of the home center channel.

Operating income as a percent of sales increased to 11.3% in 1997
from 10.4% in 1996.  Profitability improved across the entire
segment due to volume efficiencies, cost control activities and
continued productivity improvement.


OUTLOOK
The Professional Tools and Equipment segment is expected to
perform well in 1999 with sales growth expected to continue to be
in the double digits due to product line expansions and continued
cross marketing through multiple channels of distribution.
Profits should increase due to process improvements and
additional rationalization activities.

WATER and FLUID TECHNOLOGIES

The WFT segment includes the Pentair Pump Group, Fleck Controls
and Lincoln Industrial.  Products manufactured include pumps for
wells and water treatment, sump pumps, valves for water
softeners, and automated and manual lubrication systems and
equipment.

1998 VERSUS 1997
WFT sales increased by $133.9 million or 33.1%, primarily due to
the full year effect of the 1997 pump business acquisitions;
internal growth accounted for approximately 5% of the sales
increase.  Net revenues were adversely impacted in part by the
deliberate elimination in 1998 of the unprofitable sales from the
Layne & Bowler product line, acquired as part of the General
Signal pump acquisition in 1997.

Operating income as a percent of sales increased to 13.3% in 1998
from 11.4% in 1997. The Group's performance benefited from
improved performance at the water conditioning control valve
business, increased profitability at European operations, and
over $10 million worth of manufacturing and purchasing
efficiencies resulting from the integration of the acquired pump
businesses.

1997 VERSUS 1996
WFT sales increased by $81.7 million or 25.4%, primarily due to
acquisitions.  In particular, 1997 results included 4 months of
operations from the pump businesses purchased from General
Signal.  Otherwise, this segment experienced moderate growth,
dampened by the effects of a stronger U.S. dollar on the results
of the European operations.

Operating income as a percent of sales decreased to 11.4% in 1997
from 13.8% in 1996.  1997 acquisitions had lower margins than the
overall 1996 percentage for this segment.  In addition, one plant
experienced temporary production difficulties in meeting customer
demand. Investments were made in 1997 across the segment
addressing plant and product rationalization, process redesign,
and production capacity.  Profitability was also impacted by the
weak European economy and the effects of a stronger U.S. dollar.

OUTLOOK
The WFT segment intends in 1999 to expand its presence in global
markets and broaden its product offerings.  Volume efficiencies
and productivity improvements are anticipated to continue to
generate higher margins in core markets.


ELECTRICAL and ELECTRONIC ENCLOSURES

The EEE segment includes Hoffman Enclosures, Schroff and the new
Pentair Enclosures U.K. acquisition.  Products manufactured
include metallic and composite cases, subracks and cabinets that
house and protect electrical and electronic controls,
instruments, and components.

1998 VERSUS 1997
EEE sales decreased $15.3 million or 2.6%.  Enclosures Americas
sales were lower in 1998 largely due to lower automotive and
machine tool capital spending.  Enclosures Europe sales also
decreased due to slow sales of standard product throughout
Europe, while Enclosures Asia sales were below 1997 due to the
weak Asian economy. With the October 1998 acquisition of Pentair
Enclosures U.K., Pentair strengthened its position in markets
serving high-growth manufacturers in information and
communication technology markets.

Operating income as a percent of sales was flat at 9.2%, the same
overall profitability as 1997, despite a decrease in sales.
Enclosures Americas increased profits due to overhead reductions
and repositioning of the sales force to focus on high growth
customers and leverage modification capabilities.  Enclosures
Europe earnings declined in part due to lower volumes and
unfavorable product mix throughout Europe.  In addition, the
closing of one facility in France and resultant headcount
reductions were delayed by a lengthy government approval process
until the fourth quarter of 1998.  Enclosures Asia profitability
decreased due to the weak Asian economy.


1997 VERSUS 1996
EEE sales increased by $30.6 million or 5.6% including a 1997
acquisition.  In addition, North American sales were the highest
in history and outpaced the overall growth in the markets served.
The European operations, as measured in local currencies, also
experienced year-over-year sales growth despite a continued weak
economy in Europe.  However, European sales (excluding
acquisitions), as measured in a stronger U.S. dollar, were less
than 1996.

Operating income as a percent of sales decreased to 9.2% in 1997
from 10.9% in 1996.  This was due to the impact of the weak
European economy, with intense competition affecting pricing and
product mix of sales.  There were also strategic, one-time costs
related to the following: implementation of a new world-wide
business system; start-up of the new 300,000-square-foot
production facility in Mt. Sterling, Kentucky; integration of the
Transrack acquisition including reorganization of the French
sales and marketing activities; the cost of employment reductions
in Europe; introduction of outdoor enclosures for the
telecommunications market; and start up of the North American
manufacture of a new flagship product, the ProLine enclosure.


OUTLOOK
The EEE segment holds a leading position in the global enclosures
market and has excellent prospects for growth and profitability
improvement as the business positions itself to continue
leadership in standard product markets and expand offering of
modified product. The recent acquisition of Pentair Enclosures
U.K. has increased the focus and ability to provide custom
products and serve the fast growing telecom and datacom
customers.  The EEE segment is implementing a number of changes
in its operations in order to control costs, improve productivity
and respond more flexibly to its customers.  Actions to be taken
will likely include some facility rationalization and headcount
reductions in 1999 and beyond.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company's free cash flow (cash from operations less capital
expenditures) was $81.5 million in 1998, up from $40.4 million in
1997.  The Company is targeting continued growth in free cash
flow as a percent of sales through improved profitability and
working capital ratios.  The Company believes that cash flow from
operations will continue to exceed its needs for capital
programs, smaller acquisitions and dividends in the next year.

The Company's financial position was strengthened in 1998, even
taking into account the three acquisitions made during the year.
As of December 31, 1998, the long-term debt to total capital
ratio was 29 percent, compared to 32 percent at the end of 1997.
The Company has sufficient financing capacity to continue its
current acquisition program and to support its ongoing stock
repurchase program.  The stock repurchase is intended to offset
the dilution caused by stock issuances under employee stock
compensation plans.  Significant acquisitions (above
approximately $250 million) may require new or enlarged credit
facilities.  The Company believes these facilities would be
available from various sources, if needed.

Pentair invests capital to maintain existing businesses,
implement productivity improvements, introduce new products and
develop new businesses.  In the last five years, approximately
$325 million has been invested in Pentair's businesses (excluding
acquisitions).

The Company expects capital spending in 1999 to be in the $60 -$70
million range.  Contemplated uses include computer systems, cost
reduction projects, new product development and reconfiguration
of manufacturing facilities.

The Company raised its anticipated 1999 quarterly dividend to 16
cents per share to an indicated annual rate of $.64 per share.
This is a 7% increase over 1998.  Pentair has increased its 
dividend payment each year since 1976. Since the first cash 
dividend in 1976, dividends have increased at an average 
annualized growth rate of 14%.


INFLATION
The impact of inflation on the Company's results of operations is
not considered material given the current inflationary outlook.

INSURANCE SUBSIDIARY
The Company's captive insurance subsidiary provides a cost
effective means of obtaining insurance coverage for general and
product liability, product recall, workers' compensation and auto
liability.  The insurance subsidiary insures directly and
reinsures an admitted carrier.  Loss reserves are established
based on actuarial projections of ultimate loss.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
Under current laws and regulations, Pentair's obligations
relating to environmental matters are not expected to have a
material impact on the Company's operations, financial condition
or operating results.  Some subsidiaries face remediation of soil
and groundwater as a result of predecessors' or their own
previous disposal practices.  In addition, Pentair subsidiaries
have been named as potentially responsible parties at a small
number of Superfund or other sites being studied or remediated.
Generally, the affected business has been deemed to be a
de minimis defendant or its share of remediation costs has not
been material to Pentair.  Pentair contractually retained certain
obligations pertaining to environmental issues of discontinued
paper businesses and the divested sporting ammunition business.
Costs and capital expenditures related to environmental
obligations were not material to the Company's operations in
either 1998 or 1997, and are not anticipated to be material in
1999.

Pentair engages environmental professionals to perform periodic
audits of its facilities to assist Pentair in complying with the
various environmental laws and regulations faced by its
businesses.   For purposes of maintaining appropriate reserves
against liabilities associated with environmental issues, whether
involving on- or off-site locations, Pentair management reviews
each individual site, taking into consideration the number of
parties involved with the site, the joint and several liability
imposed by certain environmental laws, the expected level of
contributions of the other parties, the nature and quantities of
wastes involved, the expected method and extent of remediation,
the estimated professional expenses involved and the time period
over which any costs would be incurred.  Based on this
evaluation, reserves are established when loss amounts are
probable and reasonably estimable.  Insurance recoveries are
recorded only when claims for recovery are settled.


YEAR 2000

Background
The Year 2000 issue is the result of computer programs and
embedded computer chips originally having been designed and
developed using two digits rather than four digits to define the
applicable year.  Any of the Company's internal use computer
programs and hardware as well as its products that are date
sensitive may recognize a date using "00" as the Year 1900 rather
than the Year 2000.  This could result in a system failure or
miscalculations causing disruptions of operations, including,
among other things, a temporary inability to process transactions
or engage in normal business activities for both the Company and
its customers who rely on its products.

State of Readiness
The Company's businesses  have had "Y2K Project" programs in
place since as long ago as 1995 to address Year 2000 problems in
critical business areas for information management systems, non-
information systems with embedded technology, suppliers and
customers. The Company has largely completed its review and
compliance planning for its critical information systems (IS).
Certain of the Company's larger businesses have completed the
implementation of required actions for compliance; the balance of
the business units are in the process of implementation.  In many
cases, implementation includes installation of new Enterprise
Resource Planning ("ERP") systems designed to enable these 
businesses to operate more efficiently and to provide better 
management reporting.  Pentair anticipates that implementation 
and testing phases will be substantially complete throughout 
the company by the third quarter of 1999.

The Company is also in the process of reviewing and replacing,
where necessary, its other automated communications and
manufacturing systems.  The Company estimates that it will
complete this phase by the second quarter of 1999.

None of the Company's products are believed to be date dependent.

The Company has close working relationships with a large number
of suppliers and customers.  These include, among others, utility
and telecommunication providers, raw materials and components
suppliers, and financial institutions, managed care organizations
and large retail establishments.  The Company has been reviewing,
and continues to review, with its critical suppliers and major
customers the status of their Year 2000 readiness. The Company's
business units have established plans for ongoing monitoring of
suppliers during 1999.

Costs to Address the Year 2000 Issue
As a result of the numerous different IS systems used by
businesses that the Company has acquired in recent years and also
as a result of changing business requirements, the Company has an
ongoing development plan with scheduled replacements of hardware
and software occurring in 1999 throughout the organization.  Year
2000 compliance is a by-product of our development plan.

The estimated cost associated with the total IS development plan
over the five-year period from 1995 to 1999 is anticipated to be
approximately $55 million, which is approximately 80% complete.
The estimated cost specifically attributable to Year 2000
compliance, apart from other IS development activities, amounts
to approximately $10 million, of which $8 million had been spent
through December 31, 1998.  Pentair has not deferred any
significant IS projects as a result of the implementation of the
Y2K Project.

Risks Represented by the Year 2000 Issue
Pentair believes that completed and planned modifications and
conversions of its internal systems and equipment will allow it
to be Year 2000 compliant in a timely manner.  However, there can
be no assurance that the Company's systems or equipment, nor
those of third parties on which Pentair relies, will be Year 2000
compliant , in all material respects, in a timely manner.  Nor
can Pentair give any assurance that its own or third parties'
contingency plans will mitigate the effects of any noncompliance.
Pentair believes that non-compliance with Year 2000 issues would
likely result in some reduction of the Company's operations for
the first part of the year 2000, which could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's businesses or their financial
condition.  Based on its assessments to date, Pentair believes it
will not experience any material disruption as a result of Y2K
issues in internal manufacturing processes, information
processing, interfacing with major customers or processing orders
and billing.  However, if critical utility service providers
experience difficulties, which affect Pentair, or its business
units, a shutdown of some or all operations at individual
facilities could occur.  Pentair is developing contingency plans
to provide for continuity of processing (in the event of a Y2K
disruption) which will be based on the outcome of its Y2K
compliance reviews and the results of third party verification
efforts.  Assuming no major disruption in service from utility
companies or similar critical third-party providers, Pentair
believes that it will be able to manage its Year 2000 transition
without material effect on Pentair's results of operations or
financial condition.

The most reasonably likely worst case scenario of failure by
Pentair or its suppliers or customers to resolve Year 2000 issues
would be a temporary slowdown or cessation of manufacturing
operations at one or more of Pentair's facilities, and/or a
temporary inability on the part of Pentair to timely process
orders and to deliver finished products to customers.  Delays in
meeting customer orders would reduce or delay sales and affect
the timing of billings to and payments received from customers
and could result in complaints, charges or claims, or temporarily
increasing working capital.

Contingency Plans
Pentair's businesses are in the process of developing Year 2000
contingency plans, based on their review of their internal and
external compliance progress.  A full review will be done
following the end of the second quarter of 1999 to assess
Pentair's vulnerability to internal non-compliance and potential
third-party failures and actions which can be taken to reduce
unfavorable impacts.  Possible plans may include arranging
alternative or additional suppliers and service providers,
increasing inventory levels, providing additional back-up systems
and replacing or upgrading equipment and software.


THE EURO CONVERSION

On January 1, 1999, eleven of the fifteen member countries of the
European Union (EU) established fixed conversion rates through
the European Central Bank (ECB) between their existing local
currencies and the Euro, the EU's single currency.  The
participating countries have agreed to adopt the Euro as their
common legal currency on that date; the Euro now trades on
currency exchanges and be available for non-cash transactions.

The Company is reviewing the Euro's impact on the Company's
business and pricing strategies.  The Company's European business
units have made the necessary investments in their IS systems in
order to be able to handle transactions in Euros, as requested.
The introduction of the Euro is not expected to have a material
impact on the Company's overall currency risk or its ability to
transact business.


QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company is exposed to various market risks, including changes
in pricing of raw materials and sourced components, foreign
currency exchange rates and interest rates.  Market risk is the
potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and
prices, such as foreign currency exchange and interest rates.
The Company enters into financial instruments to manage and
reduce the impact of some of these risks.  The Company does not
enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading
or speculative purposes.

The Company is exposed to cash flow and fair value risk arising
out of changes in interest rates with respect to its long-term
debt.  The table below presents principal cash flows and related
weighted average interest rates of the Company's long-term debt
at December 31, 1998 by expected maturity dates.  Weighted
average variable rates are based on implied forward rates in the
yield curve at December 31, 1998 plus the Company's borrowing
spread.  Implied forward rates should not be considered a
predictor of actual future interest rates.

The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements with
major financial institutions to exchange variable rate interest
payment obligations for fixed rate obligations without the
exchange of the underlying principal amounts.

The Company has also entered into foreign currency swap
agreements with major financial institutions to hedge net assets
in foreign subsidiaries, principally those denominated in
Deutschemarks, Canadian Dollars and Italian Lira.  During 1999,
the Company intends to redraft its agreements to convert to the
Euro currency.

See also Notes 6 & 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.




(1)  The foreign exchange information is presented in local
currency by maturity, however, the fair value is presented in
$U.S.


NOTIFICATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

It should be noted that certain statements herein which are not
historical facts, including without limitation those regarding 1)
the timeliness of product introductions and deliveries; 2)
expectations regarding market growth and developments; 3)
expectations for growth and profitability; and 4) statements
preceded by "believes", "anticipates", "expects", "estimates" or
similar expressions are forward-looking statements.  Because such
statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may
differ materially from the results currently expected by the
Company.

Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not
limited to, 1) general economic conditions, such as the rate of
economic growth in the Company's principal geographic markets or
fluctuations in exchange rates; 2) industry conditions, such as
the strength of product demand, the intensity of competition,
pricing pressures, the acceptability of new product
introductions, the introduction of new products by competitors,
changes in technology or the ability of the Company to source
components from third parties without interruption and at
reasonable prices and the financial condition of the Company's
customers; 3) operating factors, such as continued improvement in
manufacturing activities and the achievement of related
efficiencies therein, and inventory risks due to shifts in market
demand; and, 4) the expectations, uncertainties, costs and risks
associated with Year 2000 issues, such as the Company's
expectations as to when it will complete the remediation and
testing phases of its Year 2000 programs as well as contingency
plans; its estimated costs of achieving Year 2000 readiness; and
the Company's belief that its internal systems and equipment will
be compliant in a timely manner.  Factors that may cause these
differences include, but are not limited to, the availability of
qualified personnel and other IT resources; the ability to
identify and remediate all date-sensitive computer coding or the
ability to identify and replace all embedded computer chips in
affected systems or equipment; and the actions of governmental
agencies or other third parties with respect to Year 2000
problems.

The Company undertakes no obligation to revise any forward-
looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances
that may arise after the date hereof.  Readers are urged to
carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by the
Company in this report and in the Company's other filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time that
advise interested parties of the risks and uncertainties that may
affect the Company's financial condition and results of
operations.


Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The   following   consolidated  financial   statements   of   the
Corporation and its subsidiaries are included herein as indicated
below:

Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Statements of Income 
     for Years Ended  December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1998 and 1997

Consolidated  Statements  of Cash  Flows  
     for Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
     for  Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Independent Auditors' Report



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries


Supplemental  Cash Flow Information: Cash payments  for  interest
were  $24,470,000,  $18,507,000,and  $25,591,000  for  the  years
ending  December  31,  1998, 1997 and 1996,  respectively.   Cash
payments  for  income  taxes  were  $64,956,000,  $73,374,000,and
$38,127,000  for  the years ending December 31,  1998,  1997  and
1996, respectively.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries

1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include Pentair, Inc. and
its wholly owned subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated.

Cash Equivalents
The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased
with a maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost.  Depreciation is
computed using the straight-line method.  Estimated useful lives
are: land improvements - 5 to 20 years, buildings - 5 to 50
years, and machinery and equipment - 3 to 15 years.

Insurance Subsidiary
The Company's wholly owned insurance subsidiary , Penwald
Insurance Company, insures general and product liability, product
recall, workers' compensation, and auto liability risks.

Reserves for policy claims ($35,441,000 with $29,441,000
noncurrent as of December 31, 1998 and $43,305,000 with
$32,313,000 noncurrent as of December 31, 1997) are established
based on actuarial projections of ultimate loss.

In order to maximize investment earnings from insurance reserves,
Penwald now has a long-term receivable from Pentair (established
in July, 1997) in lieu of its former marketable securities
portfolio.  The intercompany receivable is interest bearing and
payable on demand and eliminated in consolidation.  Prior to July
1997, the insurance subsidiary invested in marketable securities
including debt and equity securities classified as available-for-
sale in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and Equity Securities."  Debt and equity securities classified as
available-for-sale were carried at fair value on the balance
sheet with unrealized gains and losses reported in a component of
shareholders' equity.

The debt and securities investments were treated as operating
assets of the insurance subsidiary and the related earnings
($2,864,000, and $1,824,000 in 1997,and 1996, respectively) were
recorded as a reduction of the insurance component of cost of
sales.  The 1997 gain on sale of securities from the liquidation
of the portfolio ($5,932,000) was recorded as other income and
included as a reduction of selling, general and administrative
costs.

Goodwill
The excess purchase price paid over the fair value of net assets
of businesses acquired is amortized on a straight-line basis over
periods ranging from 25 to 40 years.  The amortization recorded
for 1998, 1997,and 1996 was $15,255,000, $14,113,000, and
$11,160,000, respectively.  Accumulated amortization was
$61,311,000 and $44,658,000 at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.  The Company periodically reviews goodwill to
assess recoverability. The Company evaluates the recoverability
by measuring the unamortized balance of such goodwill against
estimated future cash flows.  If events or changes in
circumstances indicated that the carrying amount of such asset
might not be recoverable, the asset would be adjusted to the
present value of the estimated future cash flows.  Based on
evaluations performed, there was no adjustment to the carrying
value of goodwill during any of the three years ended December
31, 1998.

Long-Lived Assets
Pentair evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets.  When
the carrying value exceeds the projected undiscounted cash flows
from the assets, an impairment is recognized to reduce the
carrying value to the fair market value.  Losses on long-lived
assets to be disposed of are determined in a similar manner,
except that the fair market values are reduced for the cost to
sell.   Based on evaluations performed, there was no adjustment
to the carrying value of such assets during any of the three
years ended December 31, 1998.

Foreign Currency Translation
Translation gains or losses resulting from translating foreign
currency financial statements are reported as a component of
shareholders' equity.  Foreign currency transaction gains and
losses are included in earnings as incurred.

Revenue Recognition
Revenue from sales is generally recognized at the time the
product is shipped.

Product Warranty Costs
Provision for estimated warranty costs is recorded at the time of
sale and periodically adjusted to reflect actual experience.

Research and Development
Research and development expenditures are expensed as incurred.
Development activities generally relate to creating new products,
improving or creating variations of existing products, or
modifying existing products to meet new applications.

Earnings per Common Share
Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing net
income, after deducting preferred stock dividends, by the
weighted average common shares outstanding during the period.

Diluted earnings per common share is computed by dividing net
income, after adjusting the tax benefits on deductible ESOP
dividends, by the weighted average common shares outstanding plus
the incremental shares that would have been outstanding upon the
assumed exercise of dilutive stock options and upon the assumed
conversion of each series of preferred stock.  The tax benefits
applicable to preferred dividends paid to ESOPs are recorded in
the following ways.  For allocated shares, they are credited to
income tax expense and included in the earnings per share
calculation.  For unallocated shares, they are credited to
retained earnings and excluded from the earnings per share
calculation.  See also Note 19.

Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior years'
financial statements to conform to the current year presentation.


2. Adoption of New Accounting Standards

In 1998, the Company adopted the following new accounting
standard: Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No.
132, "Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits".  FAS 132 revises and standardizes
disclosures for pensions and other postretirement benefits.  See
Note 15.

In 1997, the Company adopted the following accounting standards:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 128,
"Earnings per Share", Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
(FAS) No. 130 "Reporting Comprehensive Income", and Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 131 "Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information".  The impact
of these new standards on Pentair was immaterial.

Prior year financial statements have been restated accordingly.


3. Accounting Developments
In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133, "Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."  The Company
must adopt this standard no later than January 1, 2000.  The
Company is reviewing the requirements of this standard, which are
quite complex.  Although the Company expects that this standard
will not materially affect its financial position and results of
operations, it has not yet determined the impact of this standard
on its financial statements.


4. Acquisitions/Divestitures
In 1998, the Company paid $68,384,000 to acquire 3 new
businesses, all accounted for as purchase acquisitions with
$34,479,000 of goodwill recorded during 1998 for these
acquisitions.  The pro forma effect of these acquisitions is not
deemed material to the Company.

In 1997, the Company paid $210,620,000 to acquire 3 new
businesses, all accounted for as purchase acquisitions with
$180,348,000 of goodwill recorded during 1997 for these
acquisitions.  The pro forma effect of these acquisitions is not
deemed material to the Company.

In 1997, the Company sold its Federal Cartridge business for
$112,000,000 cash plus receivables approximating $16,000,000 for
final closing adjustments.  Federal's operating results are
included in the Company's results through October 31, 1997.  The
gain on the sale was $1,221,000 after income tax expense of
$9,092,000.  Tax expense for the transaction was extraordinarily
high due to non-deductible goodwill.  The transaction added 3
cents to diluted earnings per share in 1997.

In 1996, the Company paid $75,185,000 to acquire 4 new
businesses, all accounted for as purchase acquisitions with
$33,176,000 of goodwill recorded during 1996 for these
acquisitions.  The pro forma effect of these acquisitions is not
deemed material to the Company.


5.  Balance Sheet Information
Accounts receivable are stated net of allowances for doubtful
accounts of $10,858,000 in 1998 and $12,446,000 in 1997.

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. All non-US
companies use the first-in, first-out - FIFO and moving average
methods.  The US companies use the last-in, first-out - LIFO
method.



If all LIFO inventories were valued at FIFO, aggregate inventory
would have been $281,950,000 and $269,653,000 at December 31,
1998 and 1997, respectively.


6.  Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities
Revolving credit facilities with seven banks provide credit
facilities of US $390,000,000 which can be borrowed in US$, any
other G7 currency or the Euro where applicable.  G7 currencies
include any of Deutschemarks, French Francs, British Pounds
Sterling, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollars, or Italian Lira.  The
Company must pay a commitment fee ranging from .100 to .150 of 1%
per annum on the total amount of the credit facility.   The rate
is assessed pursuant to a sliding scale based on the Company's
debt to total capital ratio as calculated quarterly.  Borrowings
under the revolving credit facility mature on June 30, 2001.  The
Company also has in place a $50,000,000 uncommitted multi-
currency credit facility which is used primarily for European
overdraft funding and a $35 million temporary uncommitted credit
facility used to fund an acquisition.

Debt is summarized as follows:


At December 31, 1998, outstanding revolving credit facility debt
included $72,000,000 in U.S. dollars with an average current
interest rate of 5.43% and $31,479,000 in various foreign
currencies  with an average current local interest rate of 4.10%.
The weighted average credit facilities borrowing rates were 4.99%
in 1998 and 4.87% in 1997.  See also interest rate swap
agreements at Note 7.

Various debt agreements have restrictions relating to minimum net
worth, certain financial ratios, and dividends and certain other
restricted payments.  Under the most restrictive covenants,
$161,695,000 of the December 31, 1998 retained earnings were
unrestricted for such purposes.  The Company has remained in
compliance with these covenants.

Total long-term debt maturities, excluding revolving credit
facilities, are $52,874,000, $56,183,000, $18,002,000,
$2,787,000, and $52,804,000 for the years 1999 to 2003,
respectively.

7.  Financial Instruments

The Company utilizes various derivatives such as interest rate
swap agreements, currency swap agreements, and interest rate cap
agreements.  The Company uses these derivatives in a strategic
manner to minimize interest rate and foreign currency risk.  The
instruments are not purchased as speculative investments.

Interest Rate Risk Management
The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements with
major financial institutions to exchange variable rate interest
payment obligations for fixed rate obligations without the
exchange of the underlying principal amounts in order to manage
interest rate exposures.  Net payments or receipts under the
agreements are recorded as adjustments to interest expense and
credit risk is considered remote.

As of December 31, 1998, the Company has swap agreements
outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of $40,000,000 that
expire in varying amounts through June 2005.  The Company also
has in place forward starting swap agreements, which activate in
June 1999, with an aggregate notional amount of $34,500,000.  The
swap agreements have a fixed interest rate of 6.56% and an
average remaining maturity of 5 years.  Under the interest rate
environment existing as of December 31, 1998, the net fair value
of the Company's swap agreements was a net liability of
$3,235,000.

As of December 31, 1998, the Company has one interest rate cap
agreement outstanding.  It is a 35,000,000 Deutschemark cap that
expires in November 2001 with a capped interest rate of 7.29% DEM-
LIBOR.

Foreign Exchange Risk Management
The Company has entered into currency swap agreements with major
financial institutions to hedge net assets in foreign
subsidiaries, principally those denominated in Deutschemarks and
Italian Lira.  The notional amounts set forth in the table below
serve solely as a basis for the calculation of interest payments
which are exchanged over the life of the swap transaction and are
equal to the amount of foreign currency or dollar principal
exchanged at maturity.  Gains or losses are deferred and are
recognized in income as part of the related transaction.
Deferred unrealized gains and losses, based on dealer-quoted
prices, are presented in the following table:

(in thousands)     1998              1997
Notional amounts   $128,431          $128,431
Gains                 6,413             3,433
Losses               16,191             3,084

Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The estimated fair value of long-term debt represents the present
value of debt service at rates currently available to the Company
for issuance of debt with similar terms.  The fair value of
interest rate swap agreements and currency swap agreements were
estimated based on quotes obtained from dealers for those or
similar instruments.  Except for those listed, all other
financial instruments are carried at amounts that approximate
estimated fair value.



Fair values for the cross-currency swaps are based on the
termination of these agreements.

The Company also utilizes commodity swap agreements from time to
time.  At December 31, 1998, the net fair value of the commodity
swaps was a net liability of $170,000.


8.  Lease Commitments
Rent expense related to operating leases amounted to $22,655,000,
$15,737,000, and $11,400,000 in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.  The majority of the lease commitments are for
information systems equipment and buildings.

Future minimum rental payments under all operating leases are
$20,215,000, $15,638,000, $11,618,000, $8,482,000, and $7,502,000
for the years 1999 to 2003, respectively.


9.  Commitments and Contingencies
Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be
instituted or asserted against the Company relating to the
conduct of its businesses, including those pertaining to product
liability, environmental, safety and health, and employment
matters.  The Company records liabilities when loss amounts are
determined to be probable and reasonably estimable.  Insurance
recoveries are recorded only when claims for recovery are
settled.  Although the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted
with certainty and some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be
disposed of unfavorably to the Company, management believes,
based on facts presently known, that the outcome of such legal
proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse effect on
the Company's financial position, liquidity, or future results of
operations.


10.  Capital Stock
Preferred Stock
The two classes of preferred stock (par value - $.10) are: $7.50
Callable Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1988; and
8% Callable Cumulative Voting Convertible Preferred Stock, Series
1990 at December 31, 1998.  Both issues were held by ESOPs 
(see Note 12).  The preferred shares are convertible into
common stock and are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the
option of the Company on or after the dates indicated below, 
and at redemption prices declining to the original price per 
share after ten years.

                             Series                Series
                             1988                  1990
Shares
 Authorized                  300,000               2,500,000
 Issued and outstanding      103,318               1,431,601
Liquidation value            $100.00               $30.25
Conversion
 Price of common             $10.66 to $13.34      $13.11
 Shares of common            9.375 to 7.5          2.3077
Early redemption date        January 1991          March 1994

Upon the retirement or other termination of an ESOP participant,
the shares of preferred stock (Series 1988 and 1990) in which he
or she is vested are automatically converted into common shares
and distributed in that form, with fractional shares paid in
cash.

Subsequent to year-end, both Series 1988 and Series 1990
preferred stock classes were redeemed and all shares were
converted to common stock on January 4, 1999 and January 15,
1999, respectively.

Common Stock
At December 31, 1998, the authorized stock of the Company consisted
of 122,200,000 shares of Common Stock with a par value of $.16 2/3.

Changes in outstanding common shares are summarized as follows
(in thousands):


On December 29, 1997, the Company announced that the Pentair
board had authorized the repurchase within the next 12 months of
up to 350,000 shares of Pentair common stock.  The Company
completed the repurchase of 350,000 shares in 1998.

On December 14, 1998, the Company announced that the Pentair
board had authorized the Company to repurchase on an annual basis
up to 400,000 shares of Pentair common stock.  Any purchases
would be made periodically in the open market, by block purchases
or private transactions.  The share repurchase is intended to
offset the dilution caused by stock issuances under employee
stock compensation plans.  As of March 11, 1999, the Company had
repurchased 25,000 shares under the new authorization.

11.  Share Rights Plan

The Company has a Share Rights Plan for its shareholders.  Each
Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company
one common share at a price of $80.00, subject to adjustment.
Such rights only become exercisable ten business days after a
person or group acquires beneficial ownership of, or commences a
tender or exchange offer for, 15 percent or more of the Company's
common stock.

The Company can redeem the rights for $.01 per right.  The Rights
will expire on July 31, 2005, unless the Rights are earlier
redeemed or exchanged by the Company.


12.  Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
The Company has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) covering
non-bargaining and some bargaining U.S. employees.  The employees
receive Series 1990 Preferred Stock in lieu of cash 401(k)
matching contributions and other cash compensation.

To finance the plan, the ESOP borrowed $56,500,000 from the
Company and exchanged it for 1,867,768 shares of Callable
Cumulative Voting Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1990 at
$30.25 per share.  The unpaid balance of the twenty-year, 8.75%
loan was included in the Company's balance sheet as unearned ESOP
compensation.

Gross compensation expense (i.e. the value of shares allocated to
participants' accounts) was $7,092,000, $7,081,000, and
$5,561,000 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The stock held
by the ESOP is released for allocation to the participants'
accounts as principal and interest is paid from dividends on
unallocated shares ($517,000, $1,140,000, and $1,679,000 in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively) and Company contributions.  As of
December 31, 1998, the loan has been reduced to zero since all
shares have been allocated to participant accounts as
compensation and dividends.

A separate frozen ESOP holds the Series 1988 Preferred Stock.

Subsequent to year-end, both Series 1988 and Series 1990
preferred stock classes were redeemed and all shares were
converted to common stock on January 4, 1999 and January 15,
1999, respectively.


13.  Stock Incentive Plans
Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan
In April 1996, shareholders approved amendments to the Omnibus
Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) to authorize the issuance of
additional shares of the Company's common stock.  The Plan
extends to February 14, 2006.  At December 31, 1998, there were
2,419,774 shares available for grant under the Plan.

The Plan allows for the granting of nonqualified stock options,
incentive stock options, restricted stock, rights to restricted
stock, incentive compensation units (ICUs), stock appreciation
rights, performance shares and performance units.

Restricted Shares, Rights to Restricted Stock and ICUs
Restrictions on the restricted shares, rights to restricted stock
and ICUs generally expire in the third, fourth and fifth years
after issuance.  Beginning with 1993 grants, ICU restrictions
will expire at the end of three years.  The value of each ICU is
based on the increase in book value of common stock during the
restriction period and is payable when the restrictions lift.
Compensation expense consists of (a) amortization of the market
value of the stock on the date of award over the period in which
the restrictions lapse, and (b) the annual increase in ICU value.
Compensation expense was $6,100,000 in 1998, $4,991,000 in
1997,and $4,909,000 in 1996.  The Company records incremental tax
benefits resulting from the program as additional paid-in
capital.

Options
Options are granted to purchase shares at not less than fair
market value of shares on date of grant.  Options have expiration
dates of five or ten years from date of grant.

Outside Directors Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
The Outside Directors Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (the
Directors Plan) allows for the granting of nonqualified stock
options.  Options are granted to purchase shares at not less than
fair market value of shares on date of grant.  Options generally
expire after five years but may expire up to ten years from date
of grant. The Directors Plan extends to January 2008.   At
December 31, 1998, there were 395,973 shares available for grant
under the Directors Plan.

Details of options for both plans are as follows:


Options Outstanding and Exercisable by Price Range
as of December 31, 1998:


In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the
Company has chosen to continue accounting for its plans using the
"intrinsic method" in accordance with Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25 which requires no compensation expense to be
recorded for the issuance of stock options when exercise prices
are equal to market value on the date of grant.  Had compensation
cost for the plans been determined using the "fair value" method
as defined in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS)
No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", compensation
expense would have been accrued and the effect on the Company's
income from continuing operations and earnings per share would
have been as follows:


The weighted average fair value of each option grant is estimated
on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model
and represents the difference between the fair market value on
the date of grant and the estimated market value on the exercise
date.  The model uses the following weighted-average assumptions:




14. Provision for Income Taxes

The components of earnings before income taxes were as follows:



The provisions for income taxes, excluding tax benefits credited
directly to shareholders' equity, were as follows:


A reconciliation of the statutory federal tax rate to the
effective rate follows:


The tax effect of the primary temporary differences giving rise
to the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities at December
31, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:


15.  Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits
Pension Benefits
The Company has several non-contributory defined benefit employee
pension plans covering substantially all employees of its U.S.
and certain non-U.S. subsidiaries.  Employees covered under the
bargaining plans are eligible to participate at the time of
employment and the benefits are based on a fixed amount for each
year of service.  Employees covered under the non-bargaining
pension plans are eligible to participate upon the attainment of
age 21 and the completion of one year of service; and benefits
are based upon final average salary and years of service.  All
employees are fully vested in the plans after 5-7 years of
service.  The Company's funding policy is to make contributions
as required by applicable regulations.

Other Benefits
The Company provides certain health care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees.  Employees become eligible for
these benefits if they meet minimum age and service requirements
and are eligible for pension benefits.

Weighted Average assumptions as of December 31:

                                 Pension Benefits          Other Benefits
                                 1998   1997   1996        1998   1997   1996

Discount rate                    6.75%  7.0%  7.5%          6.75%  7.0%   7.5%
Expected return on plan assets    8.5%  8.5%  8.5%
Rate of compensation increase     5.0%  5.0%  5.0%

For measurement purposes, annual rates of 8.64 percent (pre-65
benefits) and 8.14 percent (post-65 benefits) for increases in
the per capita cost of covered health care benefits were assumed
for 1999.  The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 5.0
percent for 2019 and remain at that level thereafter.

The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:


A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost
trend rates would have the following effects:





At December 31, 1998, for plans with assets less than PBO, the
aggregate PBO is $52.0 million and the aggregate assets are $5.9
million.  For plans with assets less than ABO, the aggregate ABO
is $40.7 million and the aggregate assets are $0.1 million.  The
majority of the under funding is related to German pension plans,
which are not commonly funded.

At December 31, 1998, approximately 98% of the plan assets are
invested in listed stocks and bonds or cash and short-term
investments.  The remaining 2% of plan assets are invested in
insurance contracts.  The Company's own common stock accounted
for 11.2% of plan assets.


16. Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information

Pentair Inc. has three reportable segments: Professional Tools
and Equipment (PTE), Water and Fluid Technologies (WFT), and
Electrical and Electronic Enclosures (EEE).    The PTE segment
includes Delta International Machinery, Porter-Cable, Lincoln
Automotive and Century Manufacturing.  Products manufactured
include woodworking machinery, portable power tools, lubricating
and lifting equipment, battery charging and testing equipment,
and welding equipment.  The WFT segment includes the Pentair Pump
Group, Fleck Controls and Lincoln Industrial.  Products
manufactured include pumps for wells and water treatment, sump
pumps, valves for water softeners, and automated and manual
lubrication systems and equipment.  The EEE segment includes
Hoffman Enclosures, Schroff and Pentair Enclosures U.K..
Products manufactured include metallic and composite cases,
subracks, and cabinets that house and protect electrical and
electronic controls, instruments, and components.  Other includes
corporate expenses, captive insurance company, intermediate
financial companies, charges that do not relate to current
operations, divested operations (Federal Cartridge), and
intercompany eliminations.  Segment assets exclude all cash and
cash equivalents.

In evaluating financial performance, management focuses on
operating income as a segment's measure of profit or loss.
Operating income is before interest expense, interest income and
income taxes.  Management uses a variety of balance sheet ratios
to measure the business.  The primary focus is on maximizing the
return from each segment's assets, excluding cash and temporary
investments. The accounting policies of the segments are the same
as those described in the summary of significant accounting
policies (Note 1).   Most intersegment sales are component parts
and are sold at cost plus an equitable division of manufacturing
and marketing profits.  The remaining intercompany sales are
finished product and are sold based on current market pricing to
third parties.


Segment Geographic Information:


Revenues are attributed to countries based on location of
customer.  Assets are based on the geographic location of the
subsidiary and have been translated into $U.S. dollars.


17.  Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)



18. Disclosure of Risks and Uncertainties
Pentair, Inc. is engaged principally in the design, engineering,
and manufacturing of various industrial products.  The
diversified businesses manufacture  woodworking equipment, power
tools, vehicle service equipment, pumps, water conditioning
control valves, industrial lubrication systems and material
dispensing equipment, and enclosures for electrical and
electronic equipment.

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The Company has retained certain obligations of discontinued and
divested businesses.  Based on evaluations by management and
environmental professionals, amounts for currently estimable and
probable risks or obligations have been accrued.

Although the individual subsidiaries deal with major customers
throughout North America and Europe, Pentair as a whole has
mitigated any significant impact or potential risk of
concentration of customers or products, or in certain markets or
geographic areas.  This is due to the diversified nature of the
Company and its product lines.


19. Earnings Per Share

In 1997, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (FAS) No. 128, "Earnings per Share".  Earnings per
share amounts presented for 1996 have been restated for the
adoption of FAS 128.  The following table reflects the
calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share.






Independent Auditors' Report

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Pentair, Inc.:

We  have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets  of
Pentair, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and  1997,
and  the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders'
equity, cash flows and comprehensive income for each of the three
years  in the period ended December 31, 1998.  Our audits also 
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 14.  These financial  statements and financial statement
schedule are the responsibility  of  the  Company's management.  
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial 
statements and the financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing  standards.  Those standards require that  we  plan  and
perform  the  audit to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether
the  financial  statements  are  free  of  material misstatement.   
An  audit includes examining, on  a  test  basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial  statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates  made by management, as well as evaluating the  overall
financial  statement presentation.  We believe  that  our  audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In  our  opinion, such consolidated financial statements  present
fairly,  in  all  material respects, the  financial  position  of
Pentair, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each  of
the  three  years  in  the  period ended  December  31,  1998  in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in
our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set
forth therein.


Deloitte & Touche LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota
January 29, 1999


Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
              Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

None.



                            PART III


Item   10.     Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Information  regarding  nominees and  directors  appearing  under
"Election  of  Directors" in the Pentair, Inc. Notice  of  Annual
Meeting  of  Shareholders and Proxy Statement for the April  1999
annual  shareholders'  meeting (the "1999  Proxy  Statement")  is
hereby   incorporated   by  reference.    Information   regarding
executive  officers is set forth in Item 1  of  Part  I  of  this
report.

Item 11.      Executive Compensation.

Information   appearing  under  "Election   of   Directors"   and
"Executive  Compensation" in the 1999 Proxy Statement  is  hereby
incorporated by reference.

Item 12.     Security  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

Information appearing under "Security Ownership of Management and
Beneficial  Ownership"  in  the 1999 Proxy  Statement  is  hereby
incorporated by reference.

Item 13.     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

No  relationships or transactions existed or occurred during the
last year that require disclosure under Item 13.


                             PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)  Financial Statements and Exhibits.

1.          List of Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements of Pentair,
   Inc. and subsidiaries are included in Item 8 or Part II:

Consolidated Statements of Income for 
     Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1998 and 1997

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for 
     Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for 
     Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     Independent Auditors' Report


     2.          List of Financial Statement Schedules

     The following financial statement schedules of Pentair, Inc.
     and subsidiaries are included herein.

     Schedule II- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

     All other schedules for which provision is made in the
     applicable accounting regulations of the Commission are not
     required under the related instructions or inapplicable and,
     therefore, have been omitted.


     3.          List of Exhibits

     The following exhibits are either included in this report or
     incorporated by reference as indicated below:

Exhibit
Number   Description

(3.1)    Restated Articles of Incorporation as amended through
         April 19, 1995. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
         3.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
         June 30, 1995).

(3.2)    Resolution Establishing and Designating $7.50 Callable
         Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1988, as
         a series of Preferred Stock of Pentair, Inc.
         (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Amendment
         No. 1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
         December 30, 1988).

(3.3)    Resolution Establishing and Designating 8% Callable
         Cumulative Voting Convertible Preferred Stock, Series
         1990, as a series of Preferred Stock of Pentair, Inc.
         (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the
         Company's Current Report on  Form 8-K filed March 21,
         1990).

(3.4)    Second Amended and Superseding By-Laws as amended
         through July 21, 1995. (Incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter
         ended June 30, 1995).

(4.1)    Rights Agreement as of July 21, 1995 between Norwest
         Bank N.A. and Pentair, Inc. (Incorporated by reference
         to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the
         quarter ended June 30, 1995).

The Corporation agrees to furnish a copy of any other documents
with respect to long-term debt instruments of the Corporation and
its subsidiaries upon request.

(10.1)    *   Company's Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan
         effective June 16, 1988. (Incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 10.10 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-
         K for the year ended December 31, 1989).

(10.2)   *    Company's Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan as Amended
         and Restated.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
         10.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
         March 31, 1996).

(10.3)   *    Company's Management Incentive Plan as amended to
         January 12, 1990. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
         10.17 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
         the year ended December 31, 1989).

(10.4)   *    Employee Stock Purchase and Bonus Plan as amended
         and restated effective January 1, 1992. (Incorporated
         by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's Annual
         Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         1991).

(10.5)   *    Company's Flexible Perquisite Program as amended
         to January 1, 1989. (Incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-
         K for the year ended December 31, 1989).

(10.6)   *    Form of 1986 Management Assurance Agreement
         (Revised 1990) between the Company and certain key
         employees. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22
         to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
         year ended December 31, 1989).

(10.7)   *    Fourth Amended and Restated Compensation Plan for
         Non-Employee Directors. (Incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 10.12 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-
         K for the year ended December 31, 1996).

(10.8)   *    Pentair, Inc. Outside Directors Nonqualified Stock
         Option Plan dated January 15, 1998. (Incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's Form 10-K
         for the year ended December 31, 1997).

(10.9)   *    Pentair, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan effective
         January 1, 1993. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
         10.21 to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
         December 31, 1992).

(10.10)   *   Pentair, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation
         Plan effective January 1, 1996. (Incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's Form 10-K
         for the year ended December 31, 1995).

(10.11)   *   Trust Agreement for Pentair, Inc. Non-Qualified
         Deferred Compensation Plan between Pentair, Inc. And
         State Street Bank and Trust Company. (Incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's Form 10-K
         for the year ended December 31, 1995).

(10.12)  Loan and Stock Purchase Agreement dated March 7, 1990
         between the Company and the Pentair, Inc. Employee
         Stock Ownership Plan Trust, acting through State Street
         Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current
         Report on Form 8-K filed March 21, 1990).

(10.13)  $56,499,982 Promissory Note dated March 7, 1990 of the
         Pentair, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan Trust,
         acting through State Street Bank and Trust Company, as
         Trustee, to the Company. (Incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-
         K filed March 21, 1990).

(10.14)   *   Executive Officer Performance Plan. (Incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's Form 10-K
         for the year ended December 31, 1997).

(21)     Subsidiaries of Registrant. (filed herewith)

(23)     Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP. (filed herewith)

(24)     Power of Attorney. (see Signature Page)

(27)     Financial Data Schedule. (filed herewith)


* Denotes management contract or compensatory plan.


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit
Number   Description

(21)     Subsidiaries of Registrant.
(23)     Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
(24)     Power of Attorney (see Signature Page).
(27)     Financial Data Schedule.

Exhibit 27 has been excluded from the printed version.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

A report on Form 8-K was filed on November 19, 1998 regarding the
election of Joseph R. Collins to the board of directors of
Pentair, Inc.

A report on Form 8-K was filed on December 14, 1998 regarding
authorization of a stock repurchase program.



SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

                                   PENTAIR, INC.
                                   (Registrant)

Dated:  March 12, 1999             By /s/ Richard  W. Ingman
                                    Richard W. Ingman
                                    Executive Vice President and
                                    Chief Financial Officer

                        POWER OF ATTORNEY

             KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned
directors of Pentair, Inc., a Minnesota corporation, hereby
constitute and appoint Louis L. Ainsworth his/her attorney-in-
fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for the purpose
of signing on his/her behalf as a director of Pentair, Inc. the
Annual Report on Form 10-K, to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within the next sixty days, and to file the
same, with all exhibits thereto and other supporting documents,
with the Commission, granting unto such attorney-in-fact, full
power and authority to do and perform any and all acts necessary
or incidental to the performance and execution of the powers
herein expressly granted.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has also been signed by the following persons
on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.


By /s/ Winslow H. Buxton       Dated:  March 12, 1999
   Winslow H. Buxton,
   Chairman, President and
   Chief Executive Officer,
   Director

By /s/  George N. Butzow       Dated:  March 12, 1999
   George N. Butzow,
   Director

By /s/ William J. Cadogan      Dated:  March 12, 1999
   William J. Cadogan,
   Director

By /s/  Joeseph R. Collins     Dated:  March 12, 1999
   Joseph R. Collins,
   Vice Chairman, Director

By /s/ Barbara B. Grogan       Dated:  March 12, 1999
   Barbara B. Grogan,
   Director

By /s/ Charles A. Haggerty     Dated:  March 12, 1999
   Charles A. Haggerty,
   Director

 By /s/  Harold V. Haverty     Dated:  March 12, 1999
   Harold V. Haverty,
   Director

By /s/  Quentin J. Hietpas     Dated:  March 12, 1999
   Quentin J. Hietpas,
   Director

By /s/  Walter Kissling        Dated:  March 12, 1999
   Walter Kissling,
   Director

By /s/ Richard M. Schulze      Dated:  March 12, 1999
   Richard M. Schulze,
   Director

By /s/ Karen E. Welke          Dated:  March 12, 1999
   Karen E. Welke,
   Director



     
       SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND
                            RESERVES
                 PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     (Thousands of Dollars)

     
     (A) Primarily assumed or established in connection with
     acquisitions.


