
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 28, 1996



                                    FORM 10-K

                                  UNITED STATES

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

       (Mark one)

       [X] Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934 

       For the fiscal year ended July 28,1996

       [ ] Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934 

       For the transition period from ________ to ________ Commission file 
       number 0-18225

                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

       California                                           77-0059951
       ----------                                           ----------
(State or other jurisdiction of                            (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization)                            Identification No.)


           170 West Tasman Drive
           San Jose, California                               95134
           --------------------                               -----
(Address of principal executive offices)                    (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (408) 526-4000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of each exchange
Title of each class                                     on which registered
- -------------------                                     -------------------
      None                                              Nasdaq National Market

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                  Common Stock
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                (Title of class)

       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
       required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
       Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
       that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
       subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                               Yes X    No ____

       Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
       Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
       contained to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
       information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
       10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

                                       / /

       As of October 4, 1996, the approximate aggregate market value of voting
       stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $ 43,091,773,000
       (based upon the closing price for shares of the Registrant's Common Stock
       as reported by the National Market System of the National Association of
       Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System on that date). Shares of
       Common Stock held by each officer, director, and holder of 5% or more of
       the outstanding Common Stock have been excluded in that such persons may
       be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not
       necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes. 

       As of October 4, 1996, 653,383,481 shares of registrant's common stock
       were outstanding.

       Designated portions of the Cisco Systems, Inc. Proxy Statement for the
       1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on November 15, 1996, are
       incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form
       10-K where indicated.





                                     PART I

       ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

       GENERAL

       Cisco Systems Inc. ("Cisco", or "the Company") develops, manufactures,
       markets and supports high-performance internetworking systems that link
       geographically dispersed local-area and wide-area networks ("LANs" and
       "WANs", respectively). Cisco products include a wide range of
       multiprotocol routers, LAN and WAN switches, dial access servers,
       Internet software and network management software. Most of these products
       incorporate features of the Cisco Internetwork Operating System (Cisco
       IOS(TM)) software, which provides various network services, as well as
       network connectivity, security and interoperability. The Company's
       business is subject to various risks as discussed in the "Other Risk
       Factors" section, and elsewhere in this report.

       The Company has expanded the Cisco IOS feature set by addressing new
       markets and technologies. These include a range of remote access
       products, as well as switching products. In 1994 the Company introduced
       the CiscoFusion(TM) architecture, which blends the capabilities of routed
       internetworks with the technologies of ATM, LAN workgroup switches and
       virtual LANs.

       Cisco's internetworking solutions are used by customers to form a single,
       seamless information infrastructure (a "network of networks") that allows
       people to access or transfer information without regard to differences in
       time, place or type of computer system.

       The internetworking market has experienced strong growth, caused by the
       increasingly important role that electronic information plays in modern
       life today. While internetworking has been used until recently primarily
       by large companies and institutions, the growth in use of the global
       Internet has shown that the benefits of internetworking are being adopted
       by organizations of all sizes, as well as individuals.

       Cisco sells and supports its products in approximately 75 countries
       through a combination of direct sales, distributors and resellers. The
       Company has established relationships with a number of companies to
       address specialized segments of the internetworking marketplace, and to
       sell and support its products. Cisco offers customer support through
       Technical Assistance Centers in California, North Carolina, Australia and
       Belgium.

       Satisfying customers' internetworking needs requires a constant
       monitoring of market and technology trends, plus an ability to act
       quickly. Cisco has a four-part approach to satisfying the need for new or
       enhanced internetworking products and solutions. In order of importance,
       this approach is to develop new technologies and products internally;
       enter into joint-development efforts with other companies; resell another
       company's products; and acquire all or part of another company.

       Beginning in fiscal year 1994, Cisco began entering new markets and
       broadening its product offerings through a series of acquisitions. The
       following acquisitions have been, or soon will be, integrated into one of
       the Company's business units, and product offerings, which are more fully
       described later in the "Products" section of this report.



       In September 1993, the Company acquired Crescendo Communications, Inc.
       ("Crescendo") a networking company that provides high-performance
       workgroup solutions. The Company issued approximately 6.8 million shares
       of common stock for all the outstanding shares of common stock of
       Crescendo in a transaction that was accounted for as a pooling of
       interests. The Company also assumed options and warrants to purchase
       Crescendo stock that remain outstanding as options to purchase the
       Company's common stock.

       In August 1994, the Company acquired Newport Systems Solutions(TM), Inc.
       ("Newport"), a privately held networking company providing software-based
       routers for remote network sites. The Company issued approximately 6.5
       million shares of common stock for all the outstanding stock of Newport
       in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests. The Company
       also assumed options to purchase Newport stock that remain outstanding as
       options to purchase the Company's common stock.

       In December 1994, the Company acquired Kalpana(R), Inc. ("Kalpana"), a
       privately held manufacturer of Ethernet switches. Under the terms of the
       agreement, the Company issued approximately 13.6 million shares of common
       stock for all the outstanding stock of Kalpana in a transaction accounted
       for as a pooling of interests. In connection with this transaction, the
       Company assumed options to purchase Kalpana stock that remain outstanding
       as options to purchase the Company's common stock.

       In January 1995, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and
       assumed the liabilities of LightStream(R) Corporation ("LightStream"), a
       developer of enterprise-class Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) switching
       technology, for $120.0 million in cash and related acquisition costs of
       approximately $.5 million. This acquisition was accounted for as a
       purchase.

       In September 1995, the Company acquired Combinet Inc. ("Combinet"), a
       privately held manufacturer of remote access networking products. The
       Company issued approximately 3.5 million shares of common stock for all
       the outstanding stock of Combinet in a transaction accounted for as a
       pooling of interests. In addition, the Company assumed options and
       warrants to purchase Combinet stock that remain outstanding as options to
       purchase the Company's common stock.

       In November 1995, the Company acquired Grand Junction Networks, Inc.
       ("Grand Junction") a privately held manufacturer of Fast Ethernet
       (100BaseT) and Ethernet desktop switching products. Under the terms of
       the agreement, the Company issued approximately 9.2 million shares of
       common stock for all the outstanding stock of Grand Junction in a
       transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests. The Company also
       assumed options to purchase Grand Junction stock that remain outstanding
       as options to purchase the Company's common stock.

       In March 1996, the Company acquired TGV Software Inc. ("TGV") a
       publicly-held developer of internetworking software. The Company issued
       approximately 2.4 million shares of common stock for all the outstanding
       shares of TGV in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests.
       The Company also assumed options to purchase TGV stock that remain
       outstanding as options to purchase the Company's common stock.

       In July 1996, the Company acquired StrataCom, Inc.("StrataCom"). Under
       the terms of the agreement, one share of Cisco common stock was exchanged
       for each outstanding share of StrataCom, Inc. in a transaction accounted
       for as a pooling of interests. Approximately 76.4 million 



       shares of common stock were issued to acquire StrataCom. The Company also
       assumed options to purchase StrataCom stock that remain outstanding as
       options to purchase the Company's common stock.

       Business Combinations Pending or Completed after Year-end

       In September 1996, the Company acquired Nashoba Networks ("Nashoba"). The
       Company issued approximately 1.6 million shares of common stock for all
       the outstanding stock of Nashoba in a transaction accounted for as a
       pooling of interests. The Company also assumed options to purchase
       Nashoba stock that remain outstanding as options to purchase the
       Company's common stock. The historical operations of Nashoba and the
       impact of the transaction are not material to the financial position of
       the Company.

       Also, in September 1996, the Company acquired Granite Systems, Inc.
       ("Granite"), a company established to develop, market, and sell
       multilayer switching and gigabit Ethernet equipment. The Company issued
       approximately 2.2 million shares of common stock for all the outstanding
       stock of Granite in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of
       interests. The Company also assumed options to purchase Granite stock
       that remain outstanding as options to purchase the Company's common
       stock. The historical operations of Granite and the impact of the
       transaction are not material to the financial position of the Company.

       On July 22, 1996, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire
       Telebit Corporation ("Telebit") and its Modem ISDN Channel Aggregation
       (MICA) technologies for $200 million in cash. The transaction will be
       accounted for as a purchase of assets and is expected to be completed by
       October 1996, subject to certain shareholder and regulatory approvals.
       Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will purchase Telebit
       patents, MICA intellectual property and establish employment contracts
       with MICA personnel, and will assume preferred stock and notes receivable
       of $35 million in respect of a planned management buyout of the remaining
       assets of Telebit.

       On October 14, 1996, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire
       Netsys Technologies ("Netsys"), a privately held innovator of network
       infrastructure management and performance analysis software. Under the
       terms of the agreement, shares of the Company's common stock worth
       approximately $79 million will be exchanged for all outstanding shares
       and options of Netsys in a transaction to be accounted for as a purchase.
       The Company has held a minority equity interest in Netsys since February
       1995 along with a strategic reseller agreement. The agreement is
       subject to the receipt of certain government approvals and approval by
       Netsys shareholders and is expected to be completed by November 1996.

       The Company expects to make future acquisitions where it believes that it
       can acquire new products and channels of distribution or otherwise
       rapidly enter new or emerging markets. Mergers and acquisitions of
       high-technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be
       given that the foregoing or any future acquisitions will be successful
       and will not adversely affect the Company's financial condition or
       results of operations.



       Cisco was incorporated in California in December 1984. The Company's
       executive offices are located at 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose,
       California 95134, and its telephone number at that location is
       (408)526-4000.

       PRODUCTS

       Cisco's products are used individually or in combination to connect
       computer networks with each other, within a building, across a campus or
       around the world. The breadth of product offerings and modular system
       design enable the Company to configure hardware and software features to
       match customer needs. Many of the Company's products are expandable,
       offering customers the option to upgrade their internetworks with
       existing equipment as their needs grow.

       Cisco's product and solutions offerings fall into several categories:

       Core Routing Solutions

       Cisco pioneered the concept of a multi-protocol router, which moves
       information between networks that speak different "languages"
       (protocols). The Cisco 7000 family of routers delivers the high levels of
       performance and availability needed for mission-critical networked
       applications. Cisco 7000 family routers are used to create the backbone
       of enterprise-wide networks and service-provider infrastructures.

       Switching Solutions

       Switching is a complementary internetworking technology used in both
       workgroup local-area networks (LANs) and wide-area networks (WANs).
       Cisco's switching solutions employ all widely used switching technologies
       -- Ethernet (at both 10 and 100 million bits per second), Token Ring and
       Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM). Cisco's wide-area switching solutions
       are used by large enterprises and service providers (such as
       telecommunications carriers) to connect networks over long distances,
       using standard communications methods such as frame relay and ATM.

       Access Solutions

       Cisco's Access Solutions are employed by customers to give groups and
       individuals who are remotely located the same level of connectivity and
       information access as if they were located at headquarters. Asynchronous
       and ISDN remote-access routers and dial access servers are used for
       telecommuting, Internet access, branch-site connectivity, and in
       educational applications.

       SNA/LAN Solutions

       Most large organizations have existing IBM computing systems that use the
       System Network Architecture (SNA) networking method, as well as LANs
       based on open network architectures. Network managers with both types of
       networks increasingly want to combine them into a seamless internetwork
       that leverages the investments that have already been made. Cisco
       provides a broad range of products and solutions for this need that
       maximize availability, scalability, performance, flexibility, and
       management. The CiscoBlue strategy provides a roadmap for IBM
       internetworking customers who want to consolidate duplicate networks,
       effectively manage SNA and non-SNA resources, and integrate IBM networks
       into higher-speed switched internetworks. 



       Internet Solutions

       Cisco's Internet solutions are led by the CiscoAdvantage(TM) product
       line, which improves network managers' ability to cope with several
       challenges posed by the growing popularity of the Internet. These
       challenges include security, high volumes of network traffic, and the
       shortage of network addresses. CiscoAdvantage products are designed for
       use both by Internet service providers and by companies who manage their
       own networks. The products harness the intelligent capabilities of
       internetworks to offer smarter services to network users who want to
       access the World Wide Web.

       Cisco IOS Software Solutions

       Most Cisco products incorporate features of the Cisco IOS(TM) software,
       which ensures robust, reliable internetworks by supporting both LAN and
       WAN protocols, optimizing WAN services, and controlling internetwork
       access. Cisco IOS software also allows centralized, integrated, and
       automated installation and management of products. In addition, Cisco IOS
       technologies are licensed to other companies for use in complementary
       products, thus increasing the range of networking solutions that can be
       integrated through common functionality and management.

       Enterprise Network Management

       Cisco provides applications that centralize management, automate routine
       tasks, and can be integrated into customers' existing network management
       environments. The CiscoWorks software is a suite of standards-based
       applications that allow users to manage their Cisco devices from a single
       integrated console. CiscoWorks software provides applications for
       enterprise and switched internetwork management, remote monitoring,
       device management, simulation-based planning and problem-solving, and
       performance analysis.

       CUSTOMERS AND MARKETS

       Cisco market strategy addresses four types of customers. These are:
       Enterprise customers--Large enterprises with complex internetworking
       needs, including corporations, government and educational entities, and
       other large organizations; Service Providers--Companies that provide data
       communication services, including telecommunication carriers, cable
       companies, wireless communication providers, and Internet Service
       Providers; Volume Markets--Small and medium-sized businesses, home
       offices and residential users; Software Licensees--Other suppliers who
       license features of the Cisco IOS software for inclusion in their
       products or services.

       Internetworking needs are influenced by a number of factors, including
       the size of the customer's organization, number and types of computer
       systems, geographic locations, and the applications requiring data
       communications. Cisco's business is not concentrated in any particular
       industry and in each of the past five fiscal years, no single customer
       accounted for ten percent or more of the Company's net sales.

       An important trend influencing demand for the Company's products is the
       worldwide phenomenon of the Internet. The Internet is a network of
       networks, consisting of thousands of sub-networks and computer resources
       linked together. The demand by companies, institutions and individuals



       for access to the Internet is spurring demand for a wide variety of
       Cisco's remote access, switching, routing and software products, and the
       Company also benefits from the Internet phenomenon through its
       relationships with numerous service providers.

       Another significant factor affecting internetworking is the global trend
       toward deregulated telecommunications and the resulting increase in use
       of higher-performance telecommunications services. Cisco has equipment
       installed with a majority of the world's major telecommunications
       carriers.

       The Company markets its products in the United States primarily through
       its direct sales force and resellers, and internationally, through
       distributors, value-added resellers (VARs) and its direct sales force in
       subsidiary companies. In addition, the Company sells to system
       integrators, both domestic and international, who resell the Company's
       internetworking products along with other computer and communications
       equipment. This multiple-channel approach allows customers to select the
       supply channel that addresses their specific needs and provides the
       Company with broad coverage of worldwide markets.

       The Company's worldwide direct sales organization consisted of 2,471
       individuals, including managers, sales representatives, and technical
       support personnel. The Company has approximately 110 U.S. field sales
       offices providing coverage in the following metropolitan areas: Atlanta,
       Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Dallas, Denver, Durham, Honolulu,
       Houston, Indianapolis, Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York,
       Orlando, Phoenix, Pittsburgh, Portland (Oregon), Princeton, Salt Lake
       City, San Antonio, San Diego, San Francisco, San Jose, Seattle, St.
       Louis, and Washington, D.C., among others.

       The Company's international sales are currently being made through
       multiple channels including approximately 75 international distributors
       and resellers in Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe, Latin America,
       Mexico and South America. The international distributors provide system
       installation, technical support, and follow-up service to local
       customers. Generally, the Company's international distributors have
       nonexclusive, country-wide agreements. International sales through the
       various channels, including the Company's subsidiaries, accounted for
       approximately 48.2% of total sales in fiscal 1996, 41.7% in fiscal 1995,
       and 41.3% in fiscal 1994. Sales to international customers and
       distributors generally have been made in United States dollars.



       The Company has sales support subsidiaries worldwide. New subsidiaries
       formed in fiscal 1996 include Argentina, Chile, Cisco Systems
       International B.V., Colombia, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Malaysia,
       Netherlands, Peru, Spain, Singapore, and Thailand. No individual
       subsidiary has had direct sales that have been material to date.

       BACKLOG

       The Company's backlog on September 21, 1996 was approximately $292.3
       million compared with an approximate backlog of $365.2 million at
       September 25, 1995. 

       The Company includes in its backlog only orders confirmed with a purchase
       order for products to be shipped within six months to customers with
       approved credit status. Because of the generally short cycle between
       order and shipment, and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules
       or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty),
       the Company does not believe that its backlog as of any particular date
       is necessarily indicative of actual net sales for any future period.

       COMPETITION

       Cisco competes in the computer networking market. The Company provides
       solutions to end user customers, as well as service providers, through
       both its direct sales and distributor channels. This market is
       characterized by rapid growth, technological change, and a convergence of
       technologies. These market factors represent both an opportunity and at
       the same time a competitive threat to Cisco.

       The Company faces competition from customers it licenses technology to
       and suppliers from whom it transfers technology. Networking's inherent
       nature is such that the Company must compete, and at the same time
       cooperate, with these companies. At a minimum these relationships exist
       to achieve interoperability. Optimally, these relationships are
       synergistic and mutually beneficial resulting in growth for the industry.

       3Com, Bay Networks, IBM, Cabletron, Fore, Ascend, and Cascade exemplify
       companies that compete with Cisco. Some companies compete across all of
       Cisco's product lines, while others do not offer as wide a breadth of
       networking solutions.

       The Company estimates that it competes with over 70 vendors in Access
       routing, over 40 vendors in Core routing, over 50 vendors in Workgroup
       switching, over 30 vendors in Frame Relay and ATM switching, over 20
       companies providing Internet software solutions, and over 40 vendors in
       SNA Internetworking. Cisco expects that the overall number of vendors
       will grow in these markets due to its attractive growth opportunities.
       However, the Company expects the growth in the overall number of
       competitive vendors to be partially offset by mergers and acquisitions.
       Consolidation in the industry is a result of customers and prospects
       requesting end-to-end solutions and wanting to reduce the number of
       suppliers. Also, companies in this industry seek synergies and market
       presence that may result from mergers and acquisitions. Several of the
       Company's current and potential competitors have substantially greater
       financial, marketing and technical resources than the Company.

       The principal competitive factors in these markets are: price;
       performance; the ability to provide end to end solutions and support;
       conformance to standards; added value features; and market presence. The
       Company promotes its CiscoFusion Architecture and Cisco IOS software, as
       providing the premier internetworking solutions in the industry. These
       solutions offer many competitive advantages in the areas described above.



       RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

       The market for the Company's products is characterized by rapidly
       changing technology, evolving industry standards, and frequent new
       product introductions. Management believes that the Company's future
       success depends in large part upon its ability to continue to enhance its
       existing products and to develop new products that maintain technological
       competitiveness. The Company closely monitors, through electronic mail
       and onsite visits by engineering personnel, customers' needs for
       additional products, and works actively with innovators of
       internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and
       corporations. The Company intends to remain dedicated to industry
       standards and to continue to support important protocol standards as they
       emerge.

       The Company is focusing development efforts around its seven internal
       business units in the following areas: high-speed LAN and WAN switching
       technologies, core and remote-access routing, remote access and ISDN
       connectivity, improving overall system performance through increased
       software functionality, expanding its network management capabilities,
       and IBM and WAN services connectivity. Cisco's development efforts
       continue to be guided by its CiscoFusion architecture announced in 1994,
       with the Cisco IOS software serving as the underlying common thread.
       There can be no assurance, however, that the Company's product
       development efforts will result in commercially successful products, or
       that the Company's products will not be rendered obsolete by changing
       technology or new product announcements by others. The Company has
       announced several new products, including a wide range of remote access
       products and a new line of high-end routers. Although the Company has
       announced its expected shipment dates for some of these products,
       schedules for high-technology products are inherently difficult to
       predict, and there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve its
       expected initial shipments dates of these or any other new or enhanced
       products developed by the Company. Because timely availability of new and
       enhanced products and their acceptance by customers are critical to the
       success of the Company, delays in availability of these products or lack
       of market acceptance of such products could have a material adverse
       effect on the Company.

       In fiscal 1996, 1995, and 1994, the Company's research and development
       expenditures were approximately $399.3 million, $210.8 million, and
       $106.7 million respectively. All of the Company's expenditures for
       research and development costs, including purchased research and
       development of approximately $95.8 million in fiscal 1995, have been
       expensed as incurred.

       MANUFACTURING

       The Company's manufacturing operations consist primarily of quality
       assurance of materials, components and subassemblies, final assembly, and
       test. The Company presently uses a variety of independent third-party
       contract assembly companies to perform printed circuit board assembly, in
       circuit test, and product repair. The Company installs its proprietary
       software on electronically programmable memory chips installed in its
       systems in order to configure products to customer needs and to maintain
       quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables the
       Company to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to
       meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. The Company uses
       automated testing equipment and "burn-in" procedures, as well as



       comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process control to
       assure the quality and reliability of its products. The Company's
       manufacturing processes and procedures are ISO 9001 certified. To date,
       the Company has not experienced significant customer returns of its
       products.

       PATENTS, INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSING

       Cisco's success is dependent upon its proprietary technology. Cisco
       generally relies upon patents, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws
       to establish and maintain its proprietary rights in its technology and
       products. Cisco has a program to file applications for and obtain patents
       in the United States and in selected foreign countries where a potential
       market for Cisco's products exists. Cisco has been issued several
       patents; other patent applications are currently pending. There can be no
       assurance that any of these patents will not be challenged, invalidated
       or circumvented, or that any rights granted thereunder will provide
       competitive advantages to Cisco. In addition, there can be no assurance
       that patents will be issued from pending applications, or that claims
       allowed on any future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect
       Cisco's technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may
       not permit the protection of Cisco's proprietary rights to the same
       extent as do the laws of the United States. Although Cisco believes the
       protection afforded by its patents, patent applications, copyrights and
       trademarks has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking
       industry makes Cisco's future success dependent primarily on the
       innovative skills, technological expertise and management abilities of
       its employees rather than on patent, copyright and trademark protection.

       Many of Cisco's products are designed to include software or other
       intellectual property licensed from third parties. From time to time,
       Cisco receives notices from third parties regarding patent claims. While
       it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to
       various aspects of its products, Cisco believes that based upon past
       experience and standard industry practice, such licenses generally could
       be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Because of the existence of
       a large number of patents in the networking field and the rapid rate of
       issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical to determine in
       advance whether a product or any of its components infringe patent rights
       of others. If infringement is alleged, Cisco believes that based upon
       industry practice, any necessary license or rights under such patents may
       be obtained on terms that would not have a material adverse effect on
       Cisco's financial condition or its results of operations. Nevertheless,
       there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available
       on acceptable terms, if at all, or that Cisco would prevail in any such
       challenge. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to
       obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or litigation arising
       out of such other parties' assertion, could have a material adverse
       effect on Cisco's business, operating results and financial condition.

       OTHER RISK FACTORS

       The Company's business and stock is subject to a number of risks. Some of
       those risks are described below. Other risks are presented elsewhere in
       this report. See, in particular, the last eight paragraphs of "Item 7,
       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
       of Operations - Comparison of 1996 and 1995."



       Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly Results

       The Company's operating results have in the past been, and may continue
       to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of a number of
       factors. These factors include the integration of people, operations and
       products from acquired businesses and technologies; increased
       competition, which Cisco expects; the introduction and market acceptance
       of new products, including high-speed switching and ATM technologies;
       variations in sales channels, product costs or mix of products sold; the
       timing of orders and manufacturing lead times; and changes in general
       economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the computer and
       networking industries, any of which could have an adverse impact on
       operations and financial results. For example, in the second quarter of
       fiscal 1995, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of
       LightStream and incurred an expense of approximately $95 million
       associated with purchased research and development, which resulted in net
       income being significantly lower than in the prior quarter. Subsequent to
       fiscal 1996, the Company purchased Telebit, which, upon completion of the
       acquisition, will result in a charge to purchased research and
       development that may result in net income being significantly lower than
       in the prior quarter. Additionally, the dollar amounts of large orders
       for the Company's products have been increasing, and therefore the
       operating results for a quarter could be materially adversely affected if
       a number of large orders are either not received or are delayed, due for
       example, to cancellations, delays or deferrals by customers. Further, the
       Company's expense levels are required, in part, to generate future net
       sales. If net sales are below expectations, operating results are likely
       to be adversely affected. Net income may be disproportionately affected
       by a reduction in net sales because a proportionately smaller amount of
       the Company's expenses varies with its net sales.

       The Company expects that in the future, its net sales may grow at a
       slower rate than was experienced in previous periods and that on a
       quarter-to-quarter basis, the Company's growth in net sales may be
       significantly lower than its historical quarterly growth rate. The
       Company has previously experienced longer sales cycles for its core
       products resulting from larger order sizes and believes that some
       customers may have deferred purchases at that time in order to complete
       detailed reviews of their overall network plans. This situation could
       occur again. In addition, in response to customer demand, the Company
       has, from time to time, reduced its product manufacturing lead times and
       its backlog of orders. To the extent that backlog is reduced during any
       particular period, it would result in more variability and less
       predictability in the Company's quarter-to-quarter net sales and
       operating results.

       Dependence on New Product Development; Rapid Technological and Market
       Change

       The markets for the Company's products are characterized by rapidly
       changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product
       introductions and evolving methods of building and operating networks.
       The Company's operating results will depend to a significant extent on
       its ability to reduce costs of existing products. In particular, the
       Company broadened its product line by introducing network access
       products. Sales of these products, which are generally lower priced and
       carry lower margins than the Company's core products, have increased more
       rapidly than sales of the core products. In addition, in 1994 Cisco
       announced its CiscoFusion architecture that provides a method of 



       merging router-based networks with emerging technologies such as ATM and
       LAN switches. While some elements of the CiscoFusion architecture have
       been introduced, others are still in development. The success of these
       and other new products is dependent on several factors, including proper
       new product definition, product cost, timely completion and introduction
       of new products, differentiation of new products from those of the
       Company's competitors and market acceptance of these products. The
       Company has addressed the need to develop new products through its
       internal development effort, joint developments with other companies and
       acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the Company will
       successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new
       products to market in a timely manner, or that products and technologies
       developed by others will not render the Company's products or
       technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The failure of the Company's new
       product development efforts could have a material adverse effect on the
       Company's business operating results and financial condition.

       Acquisition Strategy

       In part, the Company has addressed, and expects to continue to address,
       the need to develop new products through the acquisition of other
       companies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks including difficulties in
       the assimilation of the operations, technologies and products of the
       acquired companies, the diversion of management's attention from other
       business concerns, risks of entering markets in which the Company has no
       or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets
       have stronger market positions, and the potential loss of key employees
       of the acquired company. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an
       acquisition will depend in part upon whether the integration of
       businesses is accomplished in an efficient and effective manner, and
       there can be no assurance that this will occur. The successful
       combination of companies in the high technology industry may be more
       difficult to accomplish than in other industries. The combination of
       companies requires, among other things, integration of the companies'
       respective product offerings and coordination of their sales and
       marketing and research and development efforts. There can be no assurance
       that such integration will be accomplished smoothly or successfully. The
       difficulties of such integration may be increased by the necessity of
       coordinating geographically separated organizations. The integration of
       certain operations following an acquisition, including the merger, will
       require the dedication of management resources that may distract
       attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. The
       inability of management to successfully integrate the operations of any
       acquired company, could have a material adverse effect on the business
       and results of operations of the Company. In addition, as commonly occurs
       with mergers of technology companies, during the pre-merger and
       integration phases, aggressive competitors may undertake initiatives to
       attract customers and to recruit key employees through various
       incentives.

       Manufacturing Risks

       Although the Company generally uses standard parts and components for its
       products, certain components are presently available only from a single
       source or limited sources. The Company has generally been able to obtain
       adequate supplies of all components in a timely manner from existing
       sources, or where necessary, from alternative sources of supply. A
       reduction or interruption in supply or a significant increase in the



       price of one or more components would adversely affect the Company's
       operating results and could damage customer relationships.

       Risks Associated With Internet Infrastructure

       The Company's management believes that there will be in the future
       performance problems with Internet communications which could receive a
       high degree of publicity and visibility. Since the Company is a large
       supplier of equipment for the Internet infrastructure, customer's
       perceptions of the Company's products and the marketplace's perception
       of Cisco as a supplier of internetworking products, whether or not these
       problems are due to the performance of Cisco's products, may be
       adversely affected. Such an event could also result in an adverse
       effect of the market price of the Company's Common Stock and could
       adversely affect Cisco's business.
       
       Business Environment

       There is a State of California initiative called Proposition 211 on the
       November 5, 1996 ballot which the Company believes may substantially
       increase the likelihood of securities fraud lawsuits being brought
       against the Company and its officers and directors. Such lawsuits, if
       brought, could adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common
       Stock. Additionally, the initiative could make it extremely unattractive
       for individuals to serve as officers and directors of publicly-held
       companies which may affect Cisco's ability to obtain or retain qualified
       individuals to serve in such capacities. The Company is also considering
       taking certain actions if the initiative passes, but has not made final
       decisions. Such actions, if taken, may affect shareholder rights, result
       in increased expenses to the Company and result in reduced communication
       with market analysts.

       Volatility of Stock Price

       The Company's Common Stock has experienced substantial price volatility,
       particularly as a result of variations between the Company's actual or
       anticipated financial results and the published expectations of analysts
       and as a result of announcements by the Company and its competitors. In
       addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume
       fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology
       companies in particular and that have often been unrelated to the
       operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as
       general economic and political conditions, may adversely affect the
       market price of the Company's Common Stock in the future.

       EMPLOYEES

       As of September 21, 1996, the Company employed 8,782 persons, including
       2,147 in manufacturing, service, and support, 3,387 in sales and
       marketing, 2,420 in engineering, and 828 in finance and administration.
       Approximately 1,400 employees were in international locations. The
       Company also employs a number of temporary and contract employees. As of
       September 21, 1996, the Company employed approximately 1,600 such
       individuals.

       None of the employees is represented by a labor union, and the Company
       considers its relations with its employees to be positive. The Company
       has experienced no work stoppages.

       Competition for technical personnel in the Company's industry is intense.
       To date, the Company believes that it has been successful in recruiting
       qualified employees, but there is no assurance that it will continue to
       be as successful in the future. The Company believes that its future
       success depends in part on its continued ability to hire, assimilate, and
       retain qualified personnel.

       ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

       The Company's principal corporate offices are located at sites in Santa
       Clara and San Jose, California. The Santa Clara facilities are leased
       through June 1998 and have approximately .1 million square feet of
       office space. The Company's main headquarters are situated on 82 acres of
       leased land in San Jose, California. There are twelve buildings located
       at this site, one of which is a manufacturing facility. The San Jose
       headquarters consist of approximately 1.4 million square feet of leased
       office space at the present time. Construction has started at this site
       on three additional office buildings of approximately .3 million square
       feet which are expected to be occupied sometime in the middle of calendar
       1997.

       As part of the StrataCom acquisition, the Company also assumed certain
       operating leases for buildings. The buildings, including an additional
       manufacturing facility, are located at various sites in San Jose,
       California and total approximately .5 million square feet.

       In addition to the California facilities, the Company leases
       approximately 45 acres of land in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina,
       where the InterWorks Business Unit, as well as a Technical Assistance
       Center, telesales, and various other support functions, are 



       located. Two building of approximately .2 million square feet have been
       constructed and are currently occupied under a lease that expires in July
       1999. A third building is currently under construction.

       In April 1996, the Company announced an agreement with the State of
       California and the City of San Jose which provides for the acquisition of
       approximately 139 acres of land located in northeast San Jose subject to
       certain conditions. The transaction is valued at approximately $95
       million, with the counterparties providing approximately $25 million in
       infrastructure and improvements. The Company anticipates that this site
       will accommodate its growth for the next five years. Certain legal
       challenges were raised subsequent to the announcement of the agreement
       that may impact the Company's ability to complete this acquisition.
       Although there are alternative sites, they may not be as cost effective
       or suitable for the Company's needs. The Company's inability to
       successfully purchase this land may impede it from having facilities
       adequate to meet future demand. Nevertheless, management believes that
       suitable additional space will be available to accommodate expansion of
       the Company's operations on commercially reasonable terms.

       The Company also leases various small offices throughout the U.S. and on
       a worldwide basis. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
       for additional information regarding the Company's obligations under
       leases.

       ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

       Pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions
       dated April 1996, ("Purchase Agreement"), Cisco is under contract to
       purchase approximately 160 gross acres of undeveloped land("Property") in
       the City of San Jose, California from the State of California. Pursuant
       to Section 5.3 of the Purchase Agreement, Cisco's obligation to acquire
       the Property is conditional upon receipt of all governmental approvals
       needed for Cisco's intended use of the Property (for an expansion of its
       research and development facilities). Among the necessary approvals is an
       amendment to the General Plan of the City of San Jose ("GPA")
       redesignating the Property for industrial use. The State of California
       filed an application for the GPA, which was approved by the San Jose City
       Council on May 21, 1996. On June 21, 1996, a group of businesses and
       landowners in the neighboring City of Milpitas filed a "Petition for writ
       of Mandate and Administrative Mandamus and Complaint for Declaratory and
       Injunctive Relief" against the City of San Jose challenging the GPA. The
       action is entitled Tencor Instruments, Inc. v. City of San Jose; City
       Council of the City of San Jose; City of San Jose Planning Commission;
       and Does I through X, and is currently pending in the Superior Court of
       the State of California, County of Santa Clara. The action alleges that
       the environmental impact report ("EIR") prepared by the City of San Jose
       in connection with the GPA fails to meet the requirements of the
       California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA"). If successful, the action
       would invalidate both the EIR and the GPA, and would preclude the City of
       San Jose from granting any approvals pursuant to the GPA until the EIR
       was brought into compliance with CEQA. See Item 2 "Properties" above.

       ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

       No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
       quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.




       EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT











   -------
   (1) Member of the Executive Committee
   (2) Member of the Compensation Committee
   (3) Member of the Audit Committee
   (4) Member of the Nomination Committee
   (5) Member of the Acquisition Committee
   (6) Member of the Special Stock Option Committee

   TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR
   The First National Bank of Boston
   c/o Boston EquiServe
   M/S 45-02-09
   P.O. Box 644
   Boston, MA 02102
   http://www.EQUISERVE.com
   Investor Relations: 617 575-3120

   INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS & LEGAL COUNSEL
   Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
   San Jose, California

   Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison LLP
   Palo Alto, California




                                     PART II

   ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

   STOCK MARKET INFORMATION

   The following table sets forth the price range of the Company's common stock
   for the periods indicated. Prices reflect the two-for-one splits effective
   March 1994 and February 1996:



   Cisco Systems' common stock (Nasdaq symbol CSCO) is traded on the Nasdaq
   National Market. The table above reflects the range of high and low closing
   prices for each period indicated. The Company has never paid cash dividends
   on the common stock and has no present plans to do so. There were
   approximately 8,568 shareholders of record on October 4, 1996.

   ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                         FIVE YEARS ENDED JULY 28, 1996
                    (In thousands, except per-share amounts)



       ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
                   AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

       This Annual Report on Form 10-K may consist of forward-looking statements
       that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements may differ
       materially from actual future events or results. Readers are referred to
       the "Other Risk Factors" section of this Form 10-K, which identify
       important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from
       those contained in the forward-looking statements.

       COMPARISON OF 1996 AND 1995

       Net sales grew to $4,096 million in 1996 from $2,233 million in 1995. The
       83.5% increase in net sales during the year was primarily a result of
       increasing unit sales of the Cisco 7500 series; continued strong 



       sales of Access business unit products, including the Cisco 4500 and
       Cisco 2500 series; and continued market acceptance of the Company's
       Workgroup business unit products, particularly the Catalyst 5000. In
       connection with the acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., the Company formed
       the WAN business unit, which consists of the IPXo, BPX, IGX and AXIS
       product lines. Sales of these products increased from 1995 levels
       primarily because of an increase in demand for Asynchronous Transfer Mode
       (ATM) cell switching products by public carrier customers. These
       increases were partially offset by decreasing unit sales of the Company's
       older product lines, comprising mainly the Cisco 7000 series. Sales to
       international customers were 48.2% of net sales in 1996 compared with
       41.7% in 1995. This increase is attributable to continued expansion into
       new geographic markets, as well as growth in existing European and
       Japanese markets. Sales growth between 1996 and 1995 increased more
       substantially in Japan than in any other geographical markets.

       Gross margins decreased to 65.6% of net sales in 1996 from 66.7% in 1995.
       Gross margins were affected by several factors, including higher material
       costs as a result of certain component shortages and the continued shift
       in revenue mix to the Company's lower-margin products consisting
       primarily of products in the Access and Workgroup business units. The
       prices of component parts have fluctuated in the recent past, and the
       Company expects that this trend may continue. An increase in the price of
       component parts may have a material adverse impact on gross margins. The
       Company expects that gross margins will continue to decrease in the
       future, because it believes that the market for lower-margin remote
       access and high-speed switching products will continue to increase at a
       faster rate than the market for the Company's higher-margin router
       products. The Company is attempting to offset this trend through various
       means, such as emphasizing software content, increasing the functionality
       of its products, controlling warranty and royalty costs, and improving
       manufacturing efficiencies. There can be no assurance that any efforts
       made by the Company in these and other areas will successfully offset
       decreasing margins.

       Research and development expenses increased in 1996 by $188.5 million
       over 1995 expenditures. This represents an increase to 9.7% of net sales
       from 9.4% in 1995. The increase reflects the Company's ongoing research
       and development efforts, including the further development of
       CiscoFusiono architecture, as well as the acquisition of technologies to
       bring a broad range of products to the market in a timely fashion. A
       significant portion of the increase was due to the addition of new
       personnel, both from hiring and through acquisitions, as well as higher
       expenditures on prototypes and depreciation on new equipment. All of the
       Company's research and development costs are expensed as incurred. The
       Company is primarily developing new technologies internally, and because
       of this, research and development as a percentage of sales is expected to
       increase. If the Company believes it is unable to enter a particular
       market in a timely manner, it may acquire other businesses or license
       technology from other businesses as an alternative to internal research
       and development.

       Sales and marketing expenses increased by $326.3 million in 1996 over
       1995, but decreased to 17.7% of net sales in 1996 from 17.9% of net sales
       in 1995. The dollar increase in these expenses resulted mainly from an
       increase of approximately 1,200 employees in the size of the Company's
       direct sales force, and its commissions. Other factors affecting the
       dollar increase in expenses were additional marketing programs, such as
       CiscoProo, to support the launch of new products; the 



       entry into new markets as noted by the significant percentage increase in
       business outside the U.S.; and expansion of distribution channels,
       particularly the two-tier channel associated with the Company's initial
       efforts to reach the mass market.

       General and administrative expenses rose by $74.5 million in 1996 over
       1995, a slight increase to 3.9% from 3.8% of net sales in 1996 versus
       1995. The dollar increase reflects increased personnel costs necessary to
       support the Company's business infrastructure, the amortization of
       goodwill related to the acquisition of Lightstream, and a one-time
       write-down of $5.1 million of LightStream goodwill. There were also
       non-recurring costs related to the acquisition of StrataCom which totaled
       $15.5 million for fiscal 1996. Excluding the effect of these
       non-recurring costs, general and administrative expenses as a percentage
       of net sales declined to 3.4%, which reflects management's continued
       controls over discretionary spending. The Company is continuously
       evaluating potential acquisition candidates as part of its growth
       strategy and incurs legal, accounting, and other related costs associated
       with this activity. It is management's intent to keep general and
       administrative costs relatively constant as a percentage of net sales;
       however, this goal is dependent upon the level of acquisition activity,
       among other factors.

       The amount expensed to purchased research and development in fiscal year
       1995 reflects the acquisition of LightStream (see note 3).

       Interest and other income, net, was $64.0 million in 1996 and $40.0
       million in 1995. Interest income rose as a result of additional
       investment income on the Company's increasing investment balances. The
       Company currently holds approximately 5.4 million shares of common stock
       in a publicly traded company with a cost basis significantly below its
       current market value. Beginning in fiscal year 1997, the Company expects
       to begin selling its equity stake in this company. As a result, interest
       and other income may increase materially in the next fiscal year versus
       fiscal 1996.

       FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

       As a global concern, the Company faces exposure to adverse movements in
       foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as
       business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on the
       Company's financial results. Presently, the Company's primary exposures
       relate to the U.S. dollar value of non dollar-denominated sales in Japan,
       Canada, and Australia and non dollar-denominated operating expenses in
       Europe, Latin America, and Asia where the Company sells primarily in U.S.
       dollars. At the present time, the Company hedges only those currency
       exposures associated with certain non-functional currency assets and
       liabilities and does not generally hedge anticipated foreign currency
       cash flows.

       The Company maintains investment portfolio holdings of various issuers,
       types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as
       available for sale, and consequently, are recorded on the balance sheet
       at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate
       component of shareholders' equity. The Company also has certain real
       estate lease commitments with payments tied to short-term interest rates.
       Given the current profile of interest rate exposures, a sharp rise in
       interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the market value
       of the Company's investment portfolio while increasing the costs



       associated with its lease commitments. The Company does not currently
       hedge these interest rate exposures.

       RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

       During March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
       Statement No. 121 (SFAS No. 121), "Accounting for the Impairment of
       Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," which
       requires the Company to review for impairment of long-lived assets,
       certain identifiable intangibles, and goodwill related to those assets
       whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
       amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In certain situations, an
       impairment loss would be recognized. SFAS No. 121 will be effective for
       the Company's fiscal year 1997. The Company has studied the implications
       of the statement, and based on its initial evaluation, does not expect it
       to have a material impact on the Company's financial condition or results
       of operations upon adoption.

       During October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
       Statement No. 123 (SFAS No. 123), "Accounting for Stock-Based
       Compensation." This statement, which establishes a fair value-based
       method of accounting for stock-based compensation plans, also permits an
       election to continue following the requirements of APB Opinion No. 25,
       "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," with disclosures of pro forma
       net income and earnings per share under the new method. The Company is
       required to adopt SFAS No. 123 by fiscal 1997, and, upon adoption, will
       elect to continue to measure compensation cost for its employee stock
       compensation plans using the intrinsic value-based method of accounting
       prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25. Pro forma disclosure of net income and
       earnings per share will reflect the difference between compensation cost
       included in net income and the related cost measured by the fair value-
       based method defined in SFAS No. 123, including tax effects that would
       have been recognized in the consolidated statement of operations if the
       fair value-based method had been used.

       FUTURE GROWTH SUBJECT TO RISKS

       The internetworking business is highly competitive, and as such, the
       Company's growth is dependent upon market growth and its ability to
       enhance its existing products and introduce new products on a timely
       basis. One of the ways the Company has addressed and will continue to
       address the need to develop new products is through acquisitions of other
       companies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in
       assimilation of the operations, technologies, and products of the
       acquired companies; risks of entering markets in which the Company has no
       or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets
       have stronger market positions; and the potential loss of key employees
       of the acquired company. The Company must also maintain its ability to
       manage any such growth effectively. In particular, this would include
       potential growth associated with the StrataCom acquisition. The Company
       has not completed an acquisition and integration of a company of
       StrataComs size to date. This process could divert management's attention
       from normal daily operations of the business. Failure to manage growth
       effectively and successfully integrate StrataCom or other acquisitions
       made by the Company could adversely affect the Company's business and
       operating results. The Company's growth and ability to meet customer
       demand also depend in part on its ability to obtain timely supplies of
       parts from its vendors. While lead times for commodity components have
       improved recently, some components, particularly proprietary
       application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and other



       networking-specific components, continue to be in short supply. An
       inability to obtain these items at reasonable prices could have a
       materially adverse effect on the Company's growth and operating results.

       The markets for the Company's products are characterized by rapidly
       changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product
       introductions, and evolving methods of building and operating networks.
       There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully identify new
       product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a
       timely manner, or that products and technologies developed by others will
       not render Cisco's products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive.
       The failure of Cisco's new product development efforts could have a
       material adverse effect of Cisco's business operating results and
       financial condition.

       The Company expects that, in the future, its net sales may grow at a
       slower rate than was experienced in previous periods and that on a
       quarter-to-quarter basis, the Company's growth in net sales may be
       significantly lower than its historical quarterly growth rate.

       In 1996 and 1995, the Company's lead times for certain products and
       backlog increased. If manufacturing lead times are not reduced, the
       Company's customers may cancel orders or not place further orders if
       shorter lead times are available from other manufacturers. Each year,
       with the exception of fiscal years 1996 and 1995, the Company has
       generally had one quarter of a fiscal year when backlog has been reduced.
       Traditionally, this has occurred in the third quarter of each year. While
       such a reduction did not occur in the past two fiscal years, such
       reductions are extremely difficult to predict and may occur in the
       future. In addition, in response to customer demand, the Company has,
       from time to time, reduced its product manufacturing lead times, which
       resulted in corresponding reductions in order backlog. To the extent that
       backlog levels decline during any particular period, it could result in
       more volatility and less predictability in the Company's
       quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results.

       The Company also expects that gross margins may be adversely affected by
       increases in material or labor costs, heightened price competition, and
       changes in channels of distribution or in the mix of products sold. In
       particular, the Company broadened its product line by introducing network
       access products. Sales of these products, which are generally lower
       priced and carry lower gross margins than the Company's core products,
       have increased more rapidly than sales of the core products. The
       introduction of the CiscoPro line during 1996, as well as the increasing
       growth rates experienced in the switching markets, may accelerate this
       trend.

       The Company also expects that its operating margins may decrease as it
       continues to hire additional personnel and increases other operating
       expenses to support its business. The results of operations for fiscal
       1996 are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future
       periods, and the Company's operating results may be subject to quarterly
       fluctuations as a result of a number of factors. These factors include
       the integration of people, operations, and products from acquired
       businesses and technologies, especially StrataCom; increased competition
       in the internetworking industry; the overall trend toward industry
       consolidation; the introduction and market acceptance of new products,
       including high-speed switching and ATM technologies; variations in sales
       channels, product costs, or mix of products sold; the timing of orders
       and manufacturing lead times; and changes in general economic conditions,



       any of which could have a material adverse impact on operations and
       financial results.

       In April 1996, the Company announced an agreement with the State of
       California and the City of San Jose that provides for the acquisition of
       approximately 139 acres of land located in northeast San Jose subject to
       certain conditions. The transaction is valued at approximately $95
       million, with the counterparties providing approximately $25 million in
       infrastructure and improvements. The Company anticipates that this site
       will accommodate its growth for the next five years. Certain legal
       challenges were raised subsequent to the announcement of the agreement
       that may impact the Company's ability to complete this acquisition.
       Although there are alternative sites, they may not be as cost effective
       or suitable for the Company's needs. The Company's inability to
       successfully purchase this land may impede it from having facilities
       adequate to meet future demand.

       The Company's corporate headquarters, including most of its research and
       development operations and its manufacturing facilities, are located in
       the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for
       seismic activity. Operating results could be materially affected by a
       significant earthquake.

       COMPARISON OF 1995 AND 1994:

       Net sales grew to $2,233 million in 1995 from $1,334 million in 1994. The
       67.3% increase in net sales during the year was primarily a result of
       increasing unit sales of the Cisco 7010, the Cisco 7000, and the Cisco
       2500 series; greater market acceptance of ATM WAN switching products;
       sales of new products including the Cisco 4500; and the initial market
       acceptance of the Company's high-speed switching products. These
       increases were partially offset by decreasing unit sales of the Company's
       older product lines, comprising the AGS+ as well as the Cisco 2000 and
       Cisco 3000 series. Sales to international customers were 41.7% of net
       sales in 1995 compared with 41.3% in 1994. This moderate increase
       reflects the Company's continued expansion into new geographic markets.

       Gross margins increased to 66.7% of net sales in 1995 from 66.2% in 1994.
       Gross margins improved as a result of several factors, including lower
       material costs achieved through volume and prompt payment discounts,
       certain manufacturing overhead efficiencies, and a decrease in warranty
       expenses. This improvement was partially offset by the continued shift in
       revenue mix to the Company's lower-margin remote access products.

       Research and development expenses increased $104.1 million in 1995 over
       1994, an increase to 9.4% of net sales in 1995 from 8.0% in 1994. The
       increase reflected the Company's ongoing research and development
       efforts, including the further development of its CiscoFusion
       architecture, as well as the acquisition of technologies to bring a broad
       range of products to market in a timely fashion. A significant portion of
       the increase was due to the addition of new personnel, primarily from
       hiring and to a lesser extent through acquisitions, as well as higher
       material costs for prototypes and depreciation on new equipment.

       Sales and marketing expenses increased $174.5 million in 1995 over 1994,
       an increase to 17.9% of net sales from 16.9%. The increase in these
       expenses resulted from an increase in the size of the Company's direct
       sales force and its commissions, additional marketing programs to 



       support the launch of new products, the entry into new markets both
       domestic and international, and expansion of distribution channels.

       General and administrative expenses rose $33.8 million in 1995, a slight
       decrease to 3.8% from 3.9% of net sales. The increase in the dollar
       amount of these expenses reflects increased personnel costs,
       implementation of the Company's new information system, and the
       amortization of goodwill since the date of the acquisition of the assets
       and assumption of the liabilities of LightStream (see note 3). The amount
       expensed to purchased research and development related to the acquisition
       of the assets and assumption of the liabilities of LightStream (see note
       3).

       Interest and other income, net, was $40.0 million in 1995 and $22.3
       million in 1994. Interest income rose as a result of higher average
       investment balances in 1995 versus 1994.

       LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

       Cash, short-term investments, and investments were $1,870 million at July
       28, 1996, an increase of $895.4 million from 1995. The increase reflects
       cash generated by operations and, to a lesser extent, the exercise of
       employee stock options. This increase was partially offset by capital
       expenditures of approximately $282.8 million and by the repurchase of
       $115.6 million of common stock during the year. The company entered into
       an agreement to purchase Telebit Corporation for $200 million in cash; It
       anticipates that it will make the disbursement in the first quarter of
       fiscal 1997.

       Accounts receivable rose 47.7% during 1996, while sales grew by 83.5%.
       Days sales outstanding in receivables were 44 days at the end of the year
       versus 54 days at July 30, 1995. Inventories increased by 268.2% in 1996
       compared with 1995 because of production planning associated with higher
       sales levels and desired manufacturing lead times, particularly on new
       products. The growth in inventory in recent quarters may result in future
       write-downs due to obsolescence if the Company does not correctly
       anticipate market demand for certain products. At the same time, the
       Company recognizes that it must maintain strategic levels of components
       to ensure its manufacturing lead times will remain competitive. As such,
       the Company may carry more inventory than it has historically.

       Accounts payable increased by 156.9% in 1996 compared to 1995 because of
       increases in operating expenses and material purchases to support the
       growth in net sales. The 108.0% increase in accrued payroll and related
       expenses can be attributed to a 102.2% increase in personnel during the
       year. Other accrued liabilities increased by 53.5% over 1995, primarily
       because of increases in deferred service contract revenues, as well as
       accruals made for merger-related costs associated with the StrataCom
       acquisition.

       At July 28, 1996, the Company had a line of credit totaling $100.0
       million, which expires April 1998. There have been no borrowings under
       this agreement.

       The Company has entered into certain lease arrangements in San Jose,
       California, and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, where it has
       established its headquarters operations, certain research and
       development, and customer support activities. In connection with these
       transactions, the Company pledged $228.6 million of its investments as



       collateral for certain obligations of the leases. The restricted
       investments balance will continue to increase as the Company continues to
       expand its operations at these and other possible lease sites.

       Under the Company's stock repurchase program, shares have been purchased
       periodically to meet employee stock plan requirements. On October 9,
       1996, the Company terminated its share repurchase program. Approximately
       7.2 million shares of common stock have been repurchased by the Company
       since the original authorization of the program in August 1994.

       The Company's management believes that its current cash and equivalents,
       short-term investments, line of credit, and cash generated from
       operations will satisfy its expected working capital and capital
       expenditure requirements through fiscal 1997.



       ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (In thousands)



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                    (In thousands, except per-share amounts)



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (In thousands)





                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
                                 (In thousands)



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In thousands)



   Non-cash investing and financing activities are as follows:



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       1.   DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

       Cisco Systems, Inc. ("Cisco" or "the Company") develops, manufactures,
       markets and supports high-performance, multiprotocol internetworking
       systems that link geographically dispersed local-area and wide-area
       networks ("LANs" and "WANs", respectively). Cisco's products include a
       wide range of routers, LAN and WAN switches, dial access servers, and
       network management solutions. The Company sells its products in
       approximately 75 countries through a combination of direct sales and
       reseller and distribution channels.

       2.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

            Fiscal Year The Company's fiscal year is the 52 or 53 weeks ending
       on the last Sunday in July. The fiscal years ended July 28, 1996, July
       30, 1995, and July 31, 1994 comprised 52, 52, and 53 weeks, respectively.
       Commencing with fiscal year 1997, the Company's fiscal year will be the
       52- or 53-week period ending on the last Saturday in July.

            Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements
       include the accounts of Cisco Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries. All
       significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

            Cash and Equivalents The Company considers cash and all highly
       liquid investments purchased with an original or remaining maturity of
       less than three months at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.
       Substantially all of its cash and equivalents are custodied with three
       major financial institutions.

            Short-Term Investments The Company's short-term investments comprise
       U.S., state, and municipal government obligations and corporate
       securities. These investments are carried at market value and have
       maximum maturities of one year. Nearly all short-term investments are
       held in the Company's name and custodied with two major financial
       institutions.

            Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
       Cost is computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost on a
       first-in, first-out basis.

            Investments Investments consist of U.S., state, and municipal
       government obligations, foreign and corporate securities with maturities
       of more than one year. These investments are carried at market value.
       Investments are held in the Company's name and custodied with two major
       financial institutions.

            Restricted Investments Restricted investments consist of U.S.
       governmental obligations with maturities of more than one year. These
       investments are carried at market value and are restricted as to
       withdrawal (see note 7). Restricted investments are held in the Company's
       name and custodied with one major financial institution.



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

            Fair Value of Financial Instruments Carrying amounts of certain of
       the Company's financial instruments including cash and cash equivalents,
       accrued payroll, and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value
       because of their short maturities. The fair values of investments are
       determined using quoted market prices for those securities or similar
       financial instruments.

            Concentrations Cash and cash equivalents are, for the most part,
       maintained with several major financial institutions in the United
       States. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance
       provided on such deposits. Generally these deposits may be redeemed upon
       demand and therefore, bear minimal risk.

       The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and
       generally does not require collateral from its customers.

       The Company receives certain of its custom semiconductor chips for some
       of its products from sole suppliers. Additionally, the Company relies on
       a limited number of hardware manufacturers. The inability of any vendor
       or manufacturer to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could
       impact future results. The Company continually monitors exposures in this
       regard.

            Revenue Recognition The Company generally recognizes product revenue
       upon shipment of product. Revenue from service obligations is deferred
       and recognized over the lives of the contracts. The Company accrues for
       warranty costs, sales returns, and other allowances at the time of
       shipment.

            Depreciation and Amortization Property and equipment are stated at
       cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
       lives of the assets. Such lives vary from two and one-half to five years.

              Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes pursuant to
       Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 109, "Accounting for
       Income Taxes," which uses the liability method to calculate deferred
       income taxes. The realization of deferred tax assets is based on
       historical tax positions and expectations about future taxable income.

              Computation of Net Income per Common Share Net income per common
       share is computed using the weighted average number of common and
       dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive
       common equivalent shares consist of stock options.

              Foreign Currency Translation The Company's international
       subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency.
       Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect at the
       balance sheet date, and income and expense accounts at average exchange
       rates during the year. Resulting translation adjustments are recorded
       directly to a separate component of shareholders' equity.

              Forward Exchange Contracts The Company enters into forward
       exchange contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency
       fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       than the functional currency of the reporting entity. Gains and losses on
       these contracts are recognized in net income in the period in which
       exchange rate changes occur. Fair market values of exchange contracts are
       determined using published rates.

              Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in
       conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires
       management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
       amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
       liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
       amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
       results could differ from these estimates.

              Recent Accounting Pronouncements During March 1995, the Financial
       Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 121 (SFAS No. 121),
       "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
       Assets to Be Disposed Of," which requires the Company to review for the
       impairment of long-lived assets, certain identifiable intangibles, and
       goodwill related to those assets whenever events or changes in
       circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
       recoverable. In certain situations, an impairment loss would be
       recognized. SFAS No. 121 will be effective for the Company's fiscal year
       1997. The Company has studied the implications of the statement, and
       based on its initial evaluation, does not expect it to have a material
       impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations upon
       adoption.

       During October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
       Statement No. 123 (SFAS No. 123), "Accounting for Stock-Based
       Compensation." This statement, which establishes a fair value-based
       method of accounting for stock-based compensation plans, also permits an
       election to continue following the requirements of APB Opinion No. 25,
       "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," with disclosures on a pro
       forma basis of net income and earnings per share under the new method.
       The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 123 by fiscal 1997, and upon
       adoption, will elect to continue to measure compensation cost for its
       employee stock compensation plans using the intrinsic value-based method
       of accounting prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25. Pro forma disclosure of
       net income and earnings per share will reflect the difference between
       compensation cost included in net income and the related cost measured by
       the fair value-based method defined in SFAS No. 123, including tax
       effects, that would have been recognized in the consolidated statement of
       operations if the fair value-based method had been used.

       3.   BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

       All applicable share and per share data have been restated to give effect
       to all stock splits.



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       POOLING OF INTERESTS COMBINATIONS

       In September 1993, the Company acquired Crescendo Communications, Inc.
       ("Crescendo"), a networking company that provides high-performance
       workgroup solutions. The Company issued approximately 6.8 million shares
       of common stock for all the outstanding shares of common stock of
       Crescendo in a transaction that was accounted for as a pooling of
       interests. The Company also assumed options and warrants to purchase
       Crescendo stock that remain outstanding as options to purchase
       approximately .3 million shares of the Company's common stock.

       In August 1994, the Company acquired Newport Systems Solutions, Inc.
       ("Newport"), a privately held networking company providing software-based
       routers for remote network sites. The Company issued approximately 6.5
       million shares of common stock for all the outstanding stock of Newport
       in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests. The Company
       also assumed options to purchase Newport stock that remain outstanding as
       options to purchase approximately .2 million shares of the Company's
       common stock.

       In December 1994, the Company acquired Kalpana, Inc. ("Kalpana"), a
       privately held manufacturer of Ethernet switches. Under the terms of the
       agreement, the Company issued approximately 13.6 million shares of common
       stock for all the outstanding stock of Kalpana in a transaction accounted
       for as a pooling of interests. In connection with this transaction, the
       Company assumed options to purchase Kalpana stock that remain outstanding
       as options to purchase approximately .6 million shares of the Company's
       common stock.

       In September 1995, the Company acquired Combinet Inc. ("Combinet"), a
       privately held manufacturer of remote access networking products. The
       Company issued approximately 3.5 million shares of common stock for all
       the outstanding stock of Combinet in a transaction also accounted for as
       a pooling of interests. In addition, the Company assumed options and
       warrants to purchase Combinet stock that remain outstanding as options to
       purchase approximately .3 million shares of the Company's common stock.

       In November 1995, the Company acquired Grand Junction Networks, Inc.
       ("Grand Junction") a privately held manufacturer of Fast Ethernet
       (100BaseT) and Ethernet desktop switching products. Under the terms of
       the agreement, the Company issued approximately 9.2 million shares of
       common stock for all the outstanding stock of Grand Junction in a
       transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests. The Company also
       assumed options to purchase Grand Junction stock that remain outstanding
       as options to purchase approximately .5 million shares of the Company's
       common stock.

       In March 1996, the Company acquired TGV Software Inc. ("TGV"), a
       publicly-held developer of internetworking software. The company issued
       approximately 2.4 million shares of common stock for all the outstanding
       shares of TGV in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests.
       The Company also assumed options to purchase TGV stock that remain
       outstanding as options to purchase approximately .3 million shares of the
       Company's common stock.



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       The historical operations of the above companies are not material to the
       Company's consolidated operations and financial position on either an
       individual or an aggregated basis. Therefore, prior period statements
       have not been restated for these acquisitions.

       On July 9, 1996, the Company acquired StrataCom, Inc.("StrataCom"). Under
       the terms of the agreement, one share of Cisco common stock was exchanged
       for each outstanding share of StrataCom, Inc. Approximately 76.4 million
       shares of common stock were issued to acquire StrataCom.

       The Company also assumed options to purchase StrataCom stock that remain
       outstanding as options to purchase approximately 11.5 million shares of
       the Company's common stock. The transaction was accounted for as a
       pooling of interests; therefore, all prior periods presented have been
       restated as if the merger took place at the beginning of the earliest
       period presented.

       Prior to the merger, StrataCom used a calendar year end. Restated
       financial statements of the Company combine the July 28, 1996, July 30,
       1995 and July 31, 1994 results of Cisco Systems Inc. with the June 30,
       1996, July 1, 1995 and July 1, 1994 results of StrataCom, respectively.
       No adjustments have been made to conform accounting policies of the
       entities. However, as noted below, StrataCom's historical results have
       been adjusted to reflect an increase in income taxes because of the
       elimination of a previously provided valuation allowance on its deferred
       tax asset as of the earliest period presented. There were no significant
       intercompany transactions requiring elimination in any period presented.
       In order for both companies to operate on the same fiscal calendar for
       1997, StrataCom's operations for the one-month period ended July 28, 1996
       that are not material to the consolidated companies will be reflected as
       an adjustment to retained earnings in the first quarter of fiscal 1997.

       The following table shows the historical results of the Company and
       StrataCom for the periods prior to the consummation of the merger of the
       two entities:



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)



       PURCHASE COMBINATIONS

       In January 1995, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and
       assumed the liabilities of LightStream Corporation("LightStream"), a
       developer of enterprise-class ATM switching technology, for $120.0
       million in cash and related acquisition costs of approximately $.5
       million.

       The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. Accordingly, the results
       of operations of the acquired business and the fair market values of the
       acquired assets and assumed liabilities were included in the Company's
       financial statements as of the effective date.

       The purchase price was allocated to the acquired assets and assumed
       liabilities based on fair market values as follows:



       The amount allocated to purchased research and development was determined
       through known valuation techniques in the high-technology communications
       industry and was immediately expensed in the period of acquisition
       because technological feasibility had not been established and no
       alternative commercial use had been identified. Remaining amounts
       allocated to goodwill are being amortized on a straight-line basis over
       two years.

              The following summary, prepared on a pro forma basis, combines the
       results of operations as if LightStream had been acquired as of the
       beginning of the periods presented. The summary includes the impact of
       certain adjustments such as goodwill amortization and estimated changes



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       in interest income because of cash outlays associated with the
       transaction and the related income tax effects (in thousands, except
       per-share amounts):



       The pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of what actually
       would have occurred if the acquisition had been in effect for the entire
       periods presented. In addition, they are not intended to be a projection
       of future results and do not reflect any synergies that might be achieved
       from the combined operations.

       In September 1995, the Company acquired Internet Junction, Inc.
       ("Internet Junction"), a developer of Internet gateway software that
       connects desktop users with the Internet. The Company issued .2 million
       shares of stock for the net assets of Internet Junction in a transaction
       accounted for as a purchase. Accordingly, the results of operations of
       the acquired business and the fair market values of the acquired assets
       and liabilities were included in the Company's financial statements as of
       the acquired date. Amounts allocated to goodwill are being amortized on a
       straight-line basis over a four-year period. Pro forma information is not
       presented, because the results of Internet Junction's operations are not
       material to the Company's historical results.

       BUSINESS COMBINATIONS PENDING OR COMPLETED SUBSEQUENT TO YEAR-END

       In September 1996, the Company acquired Nashoba Networks ("Nashoba"). The
       Company issued approximately 1.6 million shares of common stock for all
       the outstanding stock of Nashoba in a transaction accounted for as a
       pooling of interests. The Company also assumed options to purchase
       Nashoba stock that remain outstanding as options to purchase
       approximately .2 million shares of the Company's common stock. The
       historical operations of Nashoba and the impact of the transaction are
       not material to the financial position of the Company. The Company also
       assumed options to purchase Nashoba stock that remain outstanding as
       options to purchase approximately .5 million shares of the Company's
       common stock.

       In September 1996, the Company acquired Granite Systems, Inc.
       ("Granite"), a company established to develop, market, and sell
       multilayer switching and gigabit Ethernet equipment. The Company issued
       approximately 2.2 million shares of common stock for all the outstanding
       stock of Granite in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of
       interests. The Company also assumed options to purchase Granite stock
       that remain outstanding as options to purchase approximately 1.7 million
       shares of the Company's common stock. The historical results of
       operations of Granite are not material to the financial position of the
       Company.



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       On July 22, 1996, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire
       Telebit Corporation ("Telebit") and its Modem ISDN Channel Aggregation
       (MICA) technologies for $200 million in cash. The transaction will be
       accounted for as a purchase of assets and is expected to be completed in
       October 1996, subject to certain shareholder and regulatory approvals.
       Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will purchase Telebit
       patents, MICA intellectual property and establish employment contracts
       with MICA personnel, and will assume preferred stock and notes receivable
       of $35 million in respect of a planned management buyout of the remaining
       assets of Telebit. Subsequent to the signing of this agreement, a class
       action law suit was filed on behalf of shareholders of Telebit alleging
       that the acquisition price was too low. The Company was named as one of
       the defendants in that law suit, but believes that the claim against it
       is without merit and will not result in any material loss to the Company.
       Consequently, no amount has been accrued for any loss that may occur.

       On October 14, 1996, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire
       Netsys Technologies ("Netsys"), a privately held innovator of network
       infrastructure management and performance analysis software. Under the
       terms of the agreement, shares of the Company's common stock worth
       approximately $79 million will be exchanged for all outstanding shares
       and options of Netsys. The Company has held a minority equity interest in
       Netsys since February 1995 along with a strategic reseller agreement.
       The agreement is subject to the receipt of certain government approvals
       and approval by Netsys shareholders and is expected to be completed by
       November 1996.

       4.   BALANCE SHEET DETAIL

            Inventories, net:





                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

   4.   BALANCE SHEET DETAIL (CONTINUED)



       5.   INVESTMENTS

       At July 28, 1996 and July 30, 1995, substantially all of the Company's
       investments were classified as available for sale. The difference between
       the cost and fair market value of those securities, net of the tax
       effect, is shown as a separate component of shareholders' equity.

       The following tables summarize the Company's securities:







                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       The following table summarizes debt maturities (including restricted
       investments) at July 28, 1996:



       Gross realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are calculated
       using the specific identification method and were not material to the
       Company's consolidated results of operations.

       During the year, the Company hedged its minority equity position in a
       publicly traded company. The hedge took the form of a cashless collar and
       was constructed as a series of purchased puts and sold calls, with the
       cost of the purchased puts exactly offset by the premium earned on the
       sold calls. The total face value of the puts and calls at July 28, 1996
       was $220,452 and $276,514 respectively. The collar expires over a period
       of two years commencing October 1996. Unrealized gains or losses for the
       stock and associated hedge are reflected as a separate component of
       shareholders' equity. Any realized gains or losses on the combined
       position will be reflected in income in the period in which in which the
       stock is sold, or the hedge is terminated.

       6.   LINE OF CREDIT

       On May 22, 1995, the Company entered into a syndicated credit agreement
       under the terms of which a syndication of banks has committed a maximum
       of $100.0 million on an unsecured basis for cash borrowings and letters
       of credit. The commitments made under this agreement expire on April 30,
       1998. During fiscal year 1996, the Company paid annual fees of
       approximately $.2 million. Outstanding borrowings under these
       arrangements bear interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus 31
       basis points, or other alternative rates. The agreement specifies various
       financial covenants, including a variable floor on tangible net worth,
       all of which the Company has met. There have been no borrowings under
       this agreement.

       7.  COMMITMENTS

       LEASES
       In February 1993, the Company entered into an agreement to lease 46 acres
       of land located in San Jose, California, where it has established its
       headquarters operations. In July 1994, the Company entered into an
       agreement to lease 45 acres of land located in Research Triangle Park,
       North Carolina, where it expanded certain research and development and
       customer support activities. In February and April 1995, the Company
       entered into agreements to lease an additional 36 acres of land in San
       Jose, California, where it will further expand its headquarters
       operations. All of the leases have initial terms of five years and
       options to renew for an additional five years, subject to certain
       conditions.



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       At any time during the terms of these land leases, the Company may
       purchase the land. If the Company elects not to purchase the land at the
       ends of the leases, the Company has guaranteed a residual value of
       approximately $55.9 million.

       In May 1993, August 1994, and May 1995, the Company entered into
       agreements to lease certain buildings to be constructed on the land
       described above. The lessors of the buildings have committed to fund up
       to a maximum of $170.2 million (subject to reductions based on certain
       conditions in the lease) for the construction of the buildings, with the
       portion of the committed amount actually used to be determined by the
       Company. Rent obligations for the buildings commenced on various dates
       and will expire at the same time as the land leases.

       The Company has an option to renew the building leases for an additional
       five years, subject to certain conditions.

       The Company may, at its option, purchase the buildings during the terms
       of the leases at approximately the amount expended by the lessors to
       construct the buildings. If the Company does not exercise the purchase
       options at the ends of the leases, the Company will guarantee a residual
       value of the buildings as determined at the lease inception date of each
       agreement (approximately $132.2 million at July 28, 1996).

       As part of the above lease transactions, the Company restricted $228.6
       million of its securities as collateral for specified obligations of the
       lessor under the leases. These securities will be restricted as to
       withdrawal and will be managed by the Company subject to certain
       limitations under its investment policy. In addition, the Company must
       maintain a minimum consolidated tangible net worth of $750.0 million.

       The Company also leases office space in Santa Clara, California;
       Chelmsford, Massachusetts; and for its various U.S. and international
       sales offices.

       Future annual minimum lease payments under all noncancelable operating
       leases as of July 28, 1996, are as follows:



       Rent expense totaled $36.8 million, $24.0 million, and $15.4 million for
       1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively.



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       FORWARD EXCHANGE CONTRACTS

       The Company conducts business on a global basis in several major
       international currencies. As such, it is exposed to adverse movements in
       foreign currency exchange rates. The Company enters into foreign exchange
       forward contracts to reduce currency exposures. These contracts
       principally hedge exposures associated with intercompany product sales
       denominated in Japanese, Canadian and Australian currencies and with
       intercompany commission obligations denominated in several European
       currencies and with intercompany commission obligations denominated in
       several European currencies. At the present time, the Company hedges only
       those currency exposures associated with certain nonfunctional currency
       assets and liabilities and does not generally hedge anticipated foreign
       currency cash flows.

       The Company does not enter into foreign exchange contracts for trading
       purposes. Gains and losses on the contracts are included in other income
       and offset foreign exchange gains or losses from the revaluation of
       intercompany balances or other current assets and liabilities denominated
       in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity.
       The Company's forward currency contracts generally range from one to
       three months in original maturity. Foreign exchange contracts outstanding
       and their unrealized gains as of July 28, 1996 are summarized as follows:



       The Company's forward exchange contracts contain credit risk in that its
       banking counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreements.
       However, the Company minimizes such risk by limiting its counterparties
       to major financial institutions. In addition, the potential risk of loss
       with any one party resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored.
       Management does not expect any material losses as a result of default by
       other parties.

       8.   MINORITY INTEREST

       In October 1994, the Company's Japanese subsidiary, Nihon Cisco Systems,
       K.K., completed the sale of preferred stock to a group of outside
       investors in a private placement. Aggregate proceeds to Nihon Cisco
       Systems, K.K. were approximately $40.5 million. The investors received
       26.8% of the voting rights. The Company retains ownership of all issued
       and outstanding common stock of its subsidiary, amounting to 73.2% of the
       voting rights. Each share of preferred stock is convertible into one
       share of common stock at any time at the option of the holder. The net
       income of the subsidiary has not been material to date.



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       9.   SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

       The Company's common stock was split two-for-one on March 4, 1994 and
       February 16, 1996. All applicable share and per-share data in these
       financial statements have been restated to give effect to these stock
       splits.

       Under the terms of the Company's Articles of Incorporation, the Board of
       Directors may determine the rights, preferences, and terms of the
       Company's authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock.

       10.    EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

       The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("the Purchase Plan")
       under which 9.8 million shares of common stock have been reserved for
       issuance. Eligible employees may designate not more than 10% of their
       cash compensation to be deducted each pay period for the purchase of
       common stock under the Purchase Plan, and participants may purchase not
       more than $25 worth of common stock in any one calendar year. On the last
       business day of each calendar quarter, shares of common stock are
       purchased with the employees' payroll deductions over the immediately
       preceding six months, at a price per share of 85% of the lesser of the
       market price of the common stock on the purchase date or the market price
       on the first day of the period.

       The Purchase Plan will terminate no later than January 3, 2000. In 1996,
       1995, and 1994, 1.3 million, 1.5 million, and 1.2 million shares
       respectively were issued under the Purchase Plan. At July 28, 1996, 3.4
       million shares were available for issuance under the Purchase Plan.

       11.        STOCK OPTION PLANS

       The Company established a Stock Option Plan in 1987 under which it has
       reserved a total of 221.3 million shares of common stock for issuance to
       employees, officers, directors, consultants, and independent contractors.
       Both incentive and nonqualified stock options have been granted at prices
       not less than fair market value at the date of grant as determined by the
       Board of Directors. Although the Board has the authority to set other
       terms, the options are generally 25% exercisable one year from the date
       of grant and then ratably over the following 36 months.



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       A summary of option activity follows:



       At July 28, 1996, approximately 21.7 million outstanding options were
       exercisable.

       The Company has, in connection with the acquisition of various companies,
       assumed the stock option plans of each acquired company. A total of 14.2
       million shares of the Company's common stock have been reserved for
       issuance under the assumed plans, and the related options are included in
       the table above.

       12.   EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN

       The Company has adopted a plan known as the Cisco Systems, Inc. 401 (k)
       Plan ("the Plan") to provide retirement and incidental benefits for its
       employees. As allowed under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code,
       the Plan provides tax-deferred salary deductions for eligible employees.

       Employees may contribute from 1% to 15% of their annual compensation to
       the Plan, limited to a maximum annual amount as set periodically by the
       Internal Revenue Service. The Company matches employee contributions
       dollar for dollar up to a maximum of $1.5 per year per person. All
       matching contributions vest immediately. In addition, the Plan provides
       for discretionary contributions as determined by the Board of Directors.
       Such contributions to the Plan are allocated among eligible participants
       in the proportion of their salaries to the total salaries of all
       participants. Company matching contributions to the Plan totaled $6.6
       million in 1996, $3.5 million in 1995, and $1.8 million in 1994. No
       discretionary contributions were made in 1996, 1995, or 1994.



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (DOLLAR VALUES IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT EXERCISE PRICES)

       13. INCOME TAXES

       The provision for income taxes consists of:



   The Company paid income taxes of $335.1 million, $270.5 million, and $167.1
   million, in 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively.

   The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the
   federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes follow:



       The components of the deferred income tax assets follow:



       The noncurrent portion of the deferred income tax assets, which totaled
       $16.0 million at July 28, 1996, and $15.5 million at July 30, 1995, is
       included in other assets.



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar values in thousands, except exercise prices)

       The Company's income taxes currently payable for federal, state and
       foreign purposes have been reduced by the tax benefit derived from stock
       options transactions. The U.S. benefit, which totaled $198.5 million in
       1996 and $59.3 million in 1995, was credited directly to common stock.

       14.   GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION AND MAJOR CUSTOMERS

       The Company operates in a single industry segment encompassing the
       design, development, manufacture, marketing, and technical support of
       internetworking products and services.

       In 1996, 1995, and 1994, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of
       the Company's net sales.

       International sales, primarily in Europe, the Pacific region, and Canada,
       were $1,976 million in 1996, $931 million in 1995, and $551 million in
       1994. Export sales, primarily to these regions, were $1,530 million in
       1996, $737 million in 1995, and $403 million in 1994.

       Summarized financial information by geographic region for 1996, 1995, and
       1994 is as follows:





                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

       Board of Directors and Shareholders
       Cisco Systems, Inc.
       San Jose, California

       We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cisco
       Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of July 28, 1996 and July 30, 1995
       and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders'
       equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
       July 28, 1996. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
       Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
       these financial statements based on our audits.

       We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
       standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
       obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
       free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
       basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
       statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
       used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
       the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
       provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

       In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
       fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
       Cisco Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of July 28, 1996 and July 30,
       1995, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash
       flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 28, 1996 in
       conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

       /s/Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

       San Jose, California 
       August 13, 1996, except for Note 3 for
       which the date is October 14, 1996.



                          SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA

                            1996 AND 1995 BY QUARTER
              (Unaudited) (in thousands, except per-share amounts)

       (In thousands, except per-share amounts)



       ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
       FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

       None.

                                    PART III

       ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

       The information regarding Directors appearing under the caption "Election
       of Directors" in the Company's proxy statement to be mailed to
       Shareholders on or before October 4, 1996, is incorporated herein by
       reference.

       ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

       The information appearing at the end of Part I and under the caption
       "Executive Compensation" in the Company's proxy statement to be mailed to
       Shareholders on or before October 4, 1996, is incorporated herein by
       reference.

       ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

       The information appearing under the captions "Election of Directors" and
       "Ownership of Securities" in the Company's proxy statement to be mailed
       to Shareholders on or before October 4, 1996, is incorporated herein by
       reference.

       ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

       The information appearing under the caption "Ownership of Securities" and
       "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" in the Company's proxy
       statement to be mailed to Shareholders on or before October 4, 1996, is
       incorporated herein by reference.



                                     PART IV

       ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
                           FORM 8-K

       (a)      1.         Financial Statements

                           The financial statements listed in Item 14(a) are
                           filed as part of this annual report.

                2.         Financial Statement Schedules

                           The financial statement schedules listed in Item
                           14(a) are filed as part of this annual report.

                3.         Exhibits

                           The exhibits listed in the accompanying Index to
                           Exhibits are filed or incorporated by reference as
                           part of this annual report.

       (b)                 Reports on Form 8-K

                           The Company filed one report on form 8-K during the
                           fourth quarter ended July 28, 1996. The date of the
                           filing was July 23, 1996. The item reported on was
                           the acquisition of StrataCom.



       SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, the Registrant
   has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the
   undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of San Jose, State of
   California on this 23rd day of October, 1996.

                                        Cisco Systems, Inc.

                                         /s/ John T. Chambers
                                        -----------------------------------
                                        (John T. Chambers, President and
                                             Chief Executive Officer)

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, this Report on
   Form 10-K has been signed by the following persons in the capacities and on
   the dates indicated.









                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                                  -------------

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                   ITEM 14(A)



       All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is
       not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedules,
       or because the information required is included in the consolidated
       financial statements or notes thereto.



       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

       Our report on the consolidated financial statements of Cisco Systems,
       Inc. and its subsidiaries is included on page 47 of this Form 10-K. In
       connection with our audits of such financial statements, we have also
       audited the related financial statement schedule listed in the index on
       page 52 of this Form 10-K.

       In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
       considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
       whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information required
       to be included therein.

       /s/Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

       San Jose, California
       August 13, 1996



                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE II
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (In thousands)



       (1) Deductions principally relate to charges for standards changes.



       ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

       (a) The following exhibits are filed herewith.

       Exhibit
       Number                           Exhibit Table
       ------                           -------------
       2.01**      Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of September
                   20, 1993 among the Company, Crescendo Communications Inc.,
                   and Co Acquisition Corporation

       2.02**      Agreement of Merger among the Company, Crescendo
                   Communications Inc., and Co Acquisition Corporation 2.03#
                   Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of July 11,
                   1994 among the Company, Newport Systems Solutions, Inc. and
                   New Acquisition Corporation

       2.04@       Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of October 21,
                   1994 among the Company, Kalpana, Inc. and Pan Acquisition
                   Corporation

       2.05@@      Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of December 8, 1994 among
                   the Company and LightStream Corporation

       2.06&       Agreement and Plan of Reorganization by and among the
                   Company, Jet Acquisition Corporation, and StrataCom, Inc.,
                   dated as of April 21, 1996

       3.01*       The Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation, as
                   currently in effect 

       3.02*       The Company's Bylaws, as currently in effect

       4.01##      The Company's 1987 Stock Option Plan, as currently in effect

       4.02*       Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for granting
                   incentive stock options under the Company's 1987 Stock Option
                   Plan

       4.03*       Series A Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement between the
                   Company and certain investors dated December 22, 1987, as
                   amended

       10.05*      Form of Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement for sales of
                   Common Stock to employees, officers, directors and
                   consultants

       10.10*      License Agreement between the Company and Network Equipment
                   Technologies Inc dated February 14, 1989

       10.12*      License Agreement between the Company and The Board of
                   Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior University dated April 15,
                   1987, as amended

       10.13*      1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan

       10.14       Fiscal Year 1996 Management Incentive Plan

       10.16*      Agreement between the Company and American Telephone and
                   Telegraph Company dated February 1, 1990

       10.19*      Letter of Employment between the Company and John T. Chambers
                   dated January 9, 1991 

       10.20*      Letter of Employment between the Company and John P.
                   Morgridge dated October 17, 1988 

       10.21*      Letter of Employment between the Company and Donald A. LeBeau
                   dated July 15, 1992 

       10.22*      Letter of Employment between the Company and Frank J.
                   Marshall dated March 31, 1992 

       10.23*      Lease Agreement between the Company and SGA Development
                   Partnership, Ltd., dated February 19, 1993, for the Company's
                   site in San Jose, California

       10.24*      Lease Agreement between the Company and Sumitomo Bank Leasing
                   and Finance, Inc., dated May 13, 1993 for the Company's
                   facilities in San Jose, California

       10.25*      Lease Agreement between the Company and SGA Development
                   Partnership, Ltd., dated February 19, 1993, for the Company's
                   site in San Jose, California

       10.26*      Lease Agreement between the Company and the State of
                   California Public Employees' Retirement System dated March
                   11, 1993, for the Company's facilities at 3100 Smoketree
                   Court

       10.27*      Lease Agreement between the Company and Sumitomo Bank Leasing
                   and Finance, Inc., dated July 11, 1994 for the Company's site
                   in Wake County, North Carolina

       10.28*      Lease Agreement between the Company and Sumitomo Bank Leasing
                   and Finance, Inc., dated August 12, 1994 for the Company's
                   facilities in Wake County, North Carolina



       Exhibit
       Number                          Exhibit Table
       ------                          -------------
       10.29&&     Lease (Buildings "I" and "J") by and between Sumitomo Bank of
                   New York Trust Company ("SBNYTC"), as trustee under that
                   certain Trust Agreement dated May 22, 1995 between Sumitomo
                   Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc. and SBNYTC ("SB Trust"), as
                   Landlord, and the Company, as tenant, dated May 22, 1995

       10.30&&     First Amendment to Lease (Buildings "I" and "J") between SB
                   Trust and the Company, dated July 18, 1995 

       10.31&&     Lease (Buildings "K" and "L") by and between SB Trust and the
                   Company, dated May 22, 1995 

       10.32&&     First Amendment to Lease (Buildings "K" and "L") between SB
                   Trust and the Company, dated July 18, 1995 

       10.33&&     Lease (Improvements Phase "C") by and between SB Trust and
                   the Company, dated May 22, 1995 

       10.34&&     First Amendment to Lease (Improvements Phase "C") between SB
                   Trust and the Company, dated July 18, 1995 

       10.35&&     Ground Lease (Parcel 2 and Lot 54) by and between Irish
                   Leasing Corporation ("Irish"), as Landlord, and the Company,
                   as Tenant, dated February 28, 1995 for the Company's site in
                   San Jose, California 

       10.36&&     First Amendment to Lease (Parcel 2 and Lot 54) by and between
                   Irish and the Company dated as of May 1, 1995

       10.37&&     Second Amendment to Lease (Parcel 2 and Lot 54) by and
                   between Irish and the Company dated as of May 22, 1995

       10.38&&     Ground Lease (Lots 58 and 59) by and between Irish and the
                   Company dated February 28, 1995 for the Company's site in San
                   Jose, California

       10.39&&     First Amendment to Lease (Lots 58 and 59) by and between
                   Irish and the Company dated as of May 1, 1995 

       10.40&&     Second Amendment to Lease (Lots 58 and 59) by and between
                   Irish and the Company dated as of May 22, 1995 

       10.41&&     Ground Lease (Tasman Phase C) by and between Irish and the
                   Company dated April 12, 1995 for the Company's site in San
                   Jose, California

       10.42&&     First Amendment to Lease (Tasman Phase C) by and between
                   Irish and the Company dated as of May 1, 1995

       10.43&&     Second Amendment to Lease (Tasman Phase C) by and between
                   Irish and the Company dated as of May 22, 1995

       10.44&&     Credit Agreement between the Company, the Banks Listed
                   Herein, Bank of America National Trust and Savings
                   Association, as Administrative Agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust
                   Company of New York, as Documentation Agent and Bank of
                   America National Trust and Savings Association, as Issuing
                   Bank dated as of May 22, 1995

       11.01       Statement Regarding Computation of Net Income Per Share

       21.01       Subsidiaries of the Company

       23.02       Consent of Independent Accountants

       27          Financial Data Schedule

   (b) The following financial statement schedules are filed herewith

       Schedule
       --------
       II          Valuation and qualifying accounts

- ----------

       *           Previously filed with registrant's registration statements
                   (File #33-32778)

       **          Previously filed with registrant's Form 8-K dated October 8,

       @           Previously filed with registrant's Form 8-K dated December 9,

       @@          Previously filed with registrant's Form 8-K dated January 25,

       #           Previously filed with registrant's Form 8-K dated August 19,

       ##          Previously filed with registrant's Proxy statement dated
                   October 2, 1995

       &           Previously filed with registrant's Form S-4 dated June 7,

       &&          Previously filed with registrant's Form 10-K dated October 
                   26, 1995

