ITEM 1.BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

The Separation

The Company

News Corp is a global diversified media and information services company focused on creating and distributing
authoritative and engaging content to consumers and businesses throughout the world. The Company comprises businesses across a range of media, including: news and information services, book publishing, digital real estate services, cable
network programming in Australia, digital education and pay-TV distribution in Australia, that are distributed under some of the world’s most recognizable and respected brands, includingThe Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones,The
Australian,Herald Sun,The Sun,The Times,HarperCollins Publishers, FOX SPORTS Australia, realestate.com.au, realtor.com®, Foxtel and many others. The Company’s commitment to premium content makes its properties a trusted source of news and information and a premier destination for
consumers across various media. Many of these properties deliver broad reach and high audience engagement levels in their respective markets, making them attractive advertising vehicles for the Company’s advertising customers.

The Company delivers its premium content to consumers across numerous distribution platforms consisting not only of traditional print and
television, but also through an array of digital platforms including websites, applications for mobile devices and tablets and electronic readers. The Company is focused on pursuing integrated strategies across its businesses to continue to
capitalize on the transition from print to digital consumption of high-quality content. The Company believes that the increasing availability of high-speed Internet access, connected mobile devices, tablets and electronic readers will allow it to
continue to deliver its content in a more engaging, timely and personalized manner, provide opportunities to more effectively monetize its content via strong customer relationships and more compelling and engaging advertising solutions and reduce
its physical production and distribution costs as it continues to shift to digital platforms.

The Company’s diversified
revenue base consists of advertising sales, recurring subscriptions, circulation copies, licensing fees, affiliate fees, direct sales and sponsorship sales. The Company manages its businesses to take advantage of opportunities to share technologies
and practices across geographies and businesses and bundle selected offerings to provide greater value to consumers and advertising partners. Headquartered in New York,







the Company operates primarily in the United States, Australia and the U.K., and its content is distributed and consumed worldwide. The Company’s operations are organized into six reporting
segments: (i) News and Information Services; (ii) Book Publishing; (iii) Digital Real Estate Services; (iv) Cable Network Programming; (v) Digital Education; and (vi) Other, which includes the Company’s general
corporate overhead expenses, corporate Strategy and Creative Group and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters, as defined in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” The Company also owns a 50% stake in Foxtel, the largest pay-TV provider in
Australia, which is accounted for as an equity investment.

The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the
Sunday nearest to June 30 in each year. All references to June 30, 2015, June 30, 2014 and June 30, 2013 relate to the 12-month periods ended June 28, 2015, June 29, 2014 and June 30, 2013, respectively. For
convenience purposes, the Company continues to date its financial statements as of June 30. The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, and its telephone number is
(212) 416-3400. More information regarding the Company is available on its website atwww.newscorp.com, including the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments
to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the material
is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

Special Note Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements







BUSINESS OVERVIEW

The Company’s six reporting segments are described below. In addition, the Company owns a 50% stake in Foxtel, which is accounted for as an equity investment. For financial information regarding the
Company’s segments and operations in geographic areas, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements.



For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015RevenuesSegmentEBITDA(in millions)News and Information Services$5,731$603Book Publishing1,667221Digital Real Estate Services625201Cable Network Programming500135Digital Education109(93)Other1(215)Total$8,633$852

News and Information Services

The Company’s News and Information Services segment consists of Dow Jones, News Corp Australia (which includes News Limited and its subsidiaries), News UK (formerly known as News International), theNew York Postand News America Marketing. This segment also includes Storyful Limited (“Storyful”), a social media news agency acquired by the Company in December 2013 that complements the existing video capabilities in this
segment. The News and Information Services segment generates revenue primarily through print and digital advertising sales and through circulation and subscriptions to its print and digital products. Advertising revenues at the News and Information
Services segment are subject to seasonality, with revenues typically being highest in the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to the end-of-year holiday season in its main operating geographies.

Dow Jones

Dow
Jones is a global provider of news and business information, which distributes its content and data through a variety of media channels including newspapers, newswires, websites, applications for mobile devices, tablets and electronic readers,
newsletters, magazines, proprietary databases, conferences and video. Dow Jones’s products, which target individual consumer and enterprise customers, includeThe Wall Street Journal, Factiva, Dow Jones Risk & Compliance, Dow
Jones Newswires,Barron’s, MarketWatch, Dow Jones Private Markets and DJX. Dow Jones’s revenue is diversified across business-to-consumer and business-to-business subscriptions, circulation, advertising and licensing fees for its
print and digital products.

Through its premier brands and authoritative journalism, Dow Jones’s products targeting
individual consumers provide insights, research and understanding that enable customers to stay informed and make educated financial decisions. With a focus on the financial markets, investing and other professional services, many of these products
offer advertisers an attractive customer demographic. Products targeting consumers include the following:



•The Wall Street Journal (WSJ). WSJ, Dow Jones’s flagship product, is available in print, online and across multiple mobile, tablet and
electronic reader devices. WSJ covers national and international news and provides analysis, commentary and opinions on a wide range of topics, including business developments and trends, economics, financial markets, investing, science and
technology, lifestyle, culture and sports. WSJ had average print and digital issue sales of approximately 2,197,000, including average print and digital subscriptions of approximately 1,897,000, for the three months ended March 29, 2015 based
on internal data, with independent assurance provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP UK. The Company







believes the new methodology used to calculate issue sales and subscriptions more accurately reflects sales of its digital publications. WSJ is printed at plants located around the U.S.,
including eight owned by the Company. WSJ sells regional advertising in three major U.S. regional editions (Eastern, Central and Western) and 21 smaller sub-regional editions. WSJ.com, which offers both free and premium content, averaged more than
72 million visits per month for the 12 months ended June 30, 2015 according to Adobe Analytics, and includes local language content in multiple languages. Print and digital products under the WSJ brand include:

Print:The Wall Street Journal(including its Asia and Europe editions) andWSJ.Magazine.

Digital: WSJ.com (includesRisk & Compliance Journal,CIO Journal, CFO Journal,CMO
Today, WSJ.D (WSJ’s home for technology news, analysis, commentary, daily buzz and consumer product reviews), WSJ+ (a complimentary membership for WSJ subscribers that provides premium offers such as exclusive event invitations) and WSJ.com
international sites such as WSJ.com/Asia and WSJ.com/Europe.

Mobile: WSJ offers a range of mobile products, including
a responsive-design website, iOS and Android applications and an Apple Watch application.

WSJ Video: WSJ video
provides live and on-demand news online through WSJ.com and other platforms, including YouTube, Internet-connected TV and set-top boxes.



•Barron’s.Barron’s,which is available in print, online and on multiple mobile, tablet and electronic reader devices, delivers
news, analysis, investigative reporting, company profiles and insightful statistics for investors and others interested in the investment world.Barron’shad average print and digital issue sales of approximately 424,000, including
average print and digital subscriptions of approximately 405,000, for the three months ended March 29, 2015 based on internal data, with independent assurance provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP UK.



•Marketwatch.Marketwatch is an investing and financial news website targeting active investors. It also provides real-time commentary and
investment tools and data. Products include mobile and tablet applications, a mobile site and MarketWatch Premium Newsletter (paid newsletter on a variety of investing topics). Marketwatch averaged more than 46 million visits per month for the
12 months ended June 30, 2015 according to Adobe Analytics.



•The Wall Street Journal Digital Network (WSJDN). WSJDN offers advertisers the opportunity to reach Dow Jones’s audience across a number of
brands and digital platforms, including the WSJ.com, Barrons.com and Marketwatch websites and mobile applications and related services. During the year ended June 30, 2015,WSJDN averaged nearly 135 million visits per month, with an average
of more than 441 million page views per month, according to Adobe Analytics.

Dow Jones’s
professional information products, which target enterprise customers, combine news and information with technology and tools that inform decisions and aid awareness, research and understanding. These products are designed to be integral to the
success of Dow Jones’s enterprise customers, and Dow Jones expects to sustain strong retention rates by providing high levels of service and continued innovation through news, data and tools that meet its customers’ specific needs. These
products include the following:



•Factiva.Factiva is a leading provider of global business content, built on an archive of important, original publishing sources. This
combination of business news and information, plus sophisticated tools, helps professionals find, monitor, interpret and share essential information. As of June 30, 2015, there were approximately 1.1 million activated Factiva users,
including both institutional and individual accounts. Many of the institutional accounts have multiple individual users. Factiva offers content from over 32,000 global news and information sources from nearly 200 countries and in 28 languages.
Thousands of Factiva’s sources are not available for free on the Internet and more than 4,000 sources make information available via Factiva on or before the date of publication by the source. Factiva leverages complex metadata extraction and
text-mining to help its customers build precise searches and alerts to access and monitor this data.







•Risk & Compliance.Dow Jones Risk & Compliance products provide data solutions for customers focused on anti-corruption,
anti-money laundering, monitoring embargo and sanction lists and other compliance requirements. Dow Jones’s solutions allow customers to filter their business transactions against its data to identify regulatory, corporate and reputational
risk, and request follow-up due diligence reports. Products include online risk data and negative news searching tools such as Risk Database Search/Research/Premium and the Risk & Compliance Portal for batch screening. Feed services include
Dow Jones Watchlist, Dow Jones Anti-Corruption, Dow Jones Sanction Alert and Adverse Media Entities. In addition, Dow Jones produces customized Due Diligence Reports to assist its clients with regulatory compliance.



•Dow Jones Newswires.Dow Jones Newswires distributes real-time business news, information, analysis, commentary and statistical data to
financial professionals and investors worldwide. It publishes, on average, over 16,000 news items each day, which are distributed via terminals, trading platforms and websites reaching hundreds of thousands of financial professionals. This content
also reaches millions of individual investors via customer portals and the intranets of brokerage and trading firms, as well as digital media publishers.



•Private Markets.Dow Jones Private Markets products provide news and deal data on venture capital and private equity-backed private companies
and their investors to help venture capital and private equity professionals, financial services professionals and other service providers identify deal and partnership opportunities, perform due diligence and examine trends in venture capital and
private equity investment, fund-raising and liquidity. Products include VentureSource, LP Source, VentureWire, Private Equity Analyst, LBO Wire, Private Equity News, Daily Bankruptcy Review (“DBR”), DBR Small Cap and DBR High Yield.



•DJX. DJX is comprised of a bundle of underlying products, including Factiva, Dow Jones Newswires, certain Private Markets products, including
Venture Source and LP Source, certain Risk & Compliance products, WSJ.com and Barrons.com.

News Corp
Australia

News Corp Australia is one of the leading news and information providers in Australia by readership and
circulation, owning over 120 newspapers covering a national, regional and suburban footprint. As of March 31, 2015, its daily, Sunday, weekly and bi-weekly newspapers accounted for more than 62% of the total circulation of newspapers in
Australia, and during the year ended March 31, 2015, its Sunday newspaper network was read by approximately 4.3 million Australians on average every week. In addition, its digital mastheads and other websites are among the leading digital
news properties in Australia based on monthly unique audience data. News Corp Australia’s news portfolio includes:



•The AustralianandThe Weekend Australian(National).The Australianis published Monday through Friday, andThe Weekend
Australianis published on Saturday. Based on Audit Bureau of Circulations (“ABC”) data, average daily paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2015 was approximately 106,000 forThe Australianand 230,000 forThe Weekend Australianand average daily paid digital circulation for each was approximately 66,000. In addition,The AustralianandThe Weekend Australianhad a total unduplicated print and digital audience of almost
3.0 million for the month of March 2015 based on average monthly Enhanced Media Metrics Australia (“EMMA”) combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended March 31, 2015 and total unique website audience in
March 2015 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings. EMMA data incorporates more frequent sampling and combines both online and print usage into a single metric.



•The Daily TelegraphandThe Sunday Telegraph(Sydney). The Daily Telegraphis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC
data, average daily paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2015 was approximately 270,000 forThe Daily Telegraphand 480,000 forThe Sunday Telegraph. In







addition,The Daily TelegraphandThe Sunday Telegraphhad a total unduplicated print and digital audience of almost 4.5 million for the month of March 2015 based on average
monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended March 31, 2015 and total unique website audience in March 2015 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings.



•Herald SunandSunday Herald Sun(Melbourne).Herald Sunis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily
paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2015 was approximately 362,000 forHerald Sunand 423,000 forSunday Herald Sun. In addition,Herald SunandSunday Herald Sunhad a total unduplicated print and
digital audience of almost 4.2 million for the month of March 2015 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended March 31, 2015 and total unique website audience in March 2015 according to
Nielsen monthly total audience ratings.



•The Courier MailandThe Sunday Mail(Brisbane).The Courier Mailis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average
daily paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2015 was approximately 168,000 forThe Courier Mailand 371,000 forThe Sunday Mail. In addition,The Courier MailandThe Sunday Mailhad a total
unduplicated print and digital audience of almost 3.2 million for the month of March 2015 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended March 31, 2015 and total unique website audience in
March 2015 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings.



•The AdvertiserandSunday Mail(Adelaide).The Advertiseris published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily
paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2015 was approximately 144,000 forThe Advertiserand 217,000 forSunday Mail. In addition,The AdvertiserandSunday Mailhad a total unduplicated print and
digital audience of almost 1.7 million for the month of March 2015 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended March 31, 2015 and total unique website audience in March 2015 according to
Nielsen monthly total audience ratings.



•A large number of community newspapers in all major capital cities, as well as leading regional publications in Cairns, Gold Coast, Townsville and
Geelong and in the other capital cities of Perth, Hobart and Darwin.



•News Corp Australia has paid-for digital platforms forThe Australian,The Weekend Australian,Herald Sun,Sunday Herald
Sun,The Daily Telegraph,The Sunday Telegraph,The Courier Mail,The Sunday Mail,The AdvertiserandSunday Mail.

News Corp Australia’s broad portfolio of digital properties also includes news.com.au, the leading general interest site in
Australia that provides breaking news, finance, entertainment, lifestyle, technology and sports news and delivers an average monthly unique audience of approximately 3.7 million based on Nielsen monthly total audience ratings for the year ended
June 30, 2015. In addition, News Corp Australia owns other premier properties such as taste.com.au, a leading food and recipe site, and kidspot.com.au, a leading parenting website, as well as various other digital media assets, including an
89.5% stake in FOX SPORTS Pulse (which supplies a scheduling tool for sports organizations) and 100% ofBusiness SpectatorandEureka Report(online business and investment news and commentary services). As of June 30, 2015, News
Corp Australia’s other assets included a 14.99% interest in APN News and Media Limited, which operates a portfolio of Australian and New Zealand radio and outdoor media assets and small regional print interests, and a 12.9% interest in SEEKAsia
Limited, which operates leading online employment marketplaces throughout Southeast Asia.

News UK

News UK publishesThe Sun,The Sun on Sunday,The TimesandThe Sunday Times,which are leading newspapers in
the U.K.As of June 30, 2015, sales of these four titles accounted for approximately one-third of all national newspaper sales in the U.K. News UK’s newspapers (except some Saturday and Sunday supplements) are printed at News
UK’s world-class printing facilities in England, Scotland and Ireland. In







addition to revenue from the sale of advertising, circulation and subscriptions to its print and digital products, News UK generates revenue by providing third party printing services through
these facilities and is one of the largest contract printers in the U.K. News UK also distributes content through its digital platforms, including its websites, thesun.co.uk, thetimes.co.uk and thesundaytimes.co.uk, as well as mobile and tablet
applications. News UK’s online and mobile offerings include the rights to show English Premier League Football, English Premiership Rugby Union, English Cricket, Gaelic Athletic Association games and UEFA Champions League and Europa League
match clips across its digital platforms. News UK’s portfolio includes:



•The Sun. Published Monday through Sunday. Based on National Readership Survey data for the six months ended March 31, 2015,The Sunis the most read national newspaper in the U.K., with an average issue readership of approximately 4,966,000 Monday through Saturday forThe Sunand 4,074,000 forThe Sun on Sunday. Average daily paid print circulation for the six
months ended June 30, 2015 based on ABC data was approximately 1,856,000 forThe Sunand 1,492,000 forThe Sun on Sunday.As of June 30, 2015,The Sunhad approximately 214,000 paid digital subscribers based on
internal sources, of which 41,000 accessed the product after purchasing codes printed inThe Sun.

The Sun’sdigital bundle delivers exclusive digital entertainment, including Barclay’s Premier League match clips and
Sun+ perks, a collection of perks, downloads, offers and competitions.



•The Times.Published Monday through Saturday with an average issue readership of approximately 1,011,000 for the six months ended March 31,
2015 based on National Readership Survey data. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2015 based on ABC data was approximately 392,000. As of June 30, 2015,The Timeshad approximately 165,000 paid
print subscribers and 147,000 paid digital subscribers based on internal sources. News UK also publishesThe Times Literary Supplement, a weekly literary review.



•The Sunday Times. Leading broadsheet Sunday newspaper in the U.K. with an average issue readership of approximately 2,038,000 for the six months
ended March 31, 2015 based on National Readership Survey data. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2015 based on ABC data was approximately 789,000. As of June 30, 2015,The Sunday Timeshad
approximately 211,000 paid print subscribers and 158,000 paid digital subscribers based on internal sources.

In addition, News UK has also assembled a portfolio of complementary ancillary product offerings, including Sun Bingo, Sun Play, an
online free and paid-for gaming platform, Sunmotors.co.uk and Driving.co.uk, digital classified offerings, and The Handpicked Collection, a luxury shopping website.

New York Post

TheNew York Post(the
“Post”) is the oldest continuously published daily newspaper in the U.S., with a focus on coverage of the New York metropolitan area. The print version of thePostis primarily distributed in New York and throughout the
Northeast, as well as Florida and California. ThePostprovides a variety of general interest content ranging from breaking news to business analysis, and is known in particular for its comprehensive sports coverage, famous headlines and its
iconic Page Six section, an authority on celebrity news. ThePost’s digital platforms feature all the sections of the print version as well as continually updated breaking news and other content and extend the reach of thePostto a national audience. For the three months ended June 30, 2015, average weekday circulation based on AAM data, including digital editions, was 422,163. ThePostis printed in a printing facility in the Bronx, New York and
uses third party printers in its other markets in the U.S.

News America Marketing

News America Marketing (“NAM”) is a leading provider of coupon promotions, advertising programs, special offers and other direct
consumer marketing solutions through a network of more than 1,900 publications, 56,000 retail stores and 300 partner sites, including SmartSource.com. NAM offers direct consumer marketing







solutions for companies that include consumer packaged goods manufacturers, financial services, pharmaceutical manufacturers, quick-service and casual restaurants, retailers and other marketers
in the U.S. and Canada. NAM has developed broad, long-standing relationships with many well-known retailers and brands, including Procter & Gamble, General Mills, Kraft, Johnson & Johnson, Walmart, Kroger, Target and Loblaws.

NAM’s marketing solutions are available via multiple distribution channels, including publications, in stores and
online, primarily under the SmartSource brand name. NAM provides customers with “one-stop shopping” for their direct-to-consumer marketing needs through its three primary business areas:



•Free-Standing Inserts:Free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which
are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local Sunday publications. NAM is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the U.S. Advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay NAM to produce free-standing
inserts where their offers are featured, often on an exclusive basis within their product category. NAM contracts with and pays publishers as well as printers, among others, to produce and/or distribute free-standing inserts in their papers.
NAM’s free-standing insert products, which are distributed under the SmartSource Magazine®brand, have a
circulation of more than 73 million based on internal sources and are distributed 43 times a year.



•In-Store Advertising and Merchandising: NAM is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged
goods manufacturers. NAM’s marketing products include: at-shelf advertising such as coupon, information and sample-dispensing machines, as well as floor and shopping cart advertising, among others, and are found in more than 56,000
supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores, mass merchandisers and specialty stores across North America. NAM also provides in-store merchandising services, including production and installation of instant-redeemable coupons,
on-pack stickers, shipper assembly, display set-up and refilling, shelf management and new product cut-ins.



•SmartSource Digital:SmartSource Digital, which includes all of NAM’s digital offerings in the U.S. and Canada, encompasses secure
printable couponing, load-to-card couponing, targeted email campaigns and programmatic digital display.

NAM
believes its programs have key advantages when compared to other marketing options available to packaged goods companies, retailers and other marketers. NAM offers cost-effective programs that reach a national audience of engaged consumers who are
actively seeking coupons or discounts and who are at a critical moment in their purchase decision. By delivering an immediate incentive or brand message to shoppers as they are making brand decisions, NAM believes free-standing inserts and in-store
advertising have an advantage over competing forms of mass media such as radio or television.

The Company’s News and
Information Services products compete with a wide range of media businesses, including print publications, digital media and information services.

The Company’s newspapers, magazines and digital publications compete for readership and advertising with local and national newspapers, web and application-based media, social media sources and other
traditional media such as television, magazines, outdoor displays and radio. Competition for print and digital subscriptions and circulation is based on the news and editorial content, subscription pricing, cover price and, from time to time,
various promotions. Competition for advertising is based upon advertisers’ judgments as to the most effective media for their advertising budgets, which is in turn based upon various factors including circulation volume, readership levels,
audience demographics, advertising rates and advertising effectiveness results. As a result of rapidly changing and evolving technologies, distribution platforms and business models, the consumer-focused businesses within the Company’s News and
Information Services segment, including its newspaper businesses, continue to face increasing competition for both circulation and advertising revenue from a variety of







alternative news and information sources. These include both paid and free websites, digital applications, news aggregators, blogs, search engines, social media platforms, digital advertising
networks and exchanges, bidding and other programmatic advertising buying channels, as well as other emerging media and distribution platforms. Shifts in consumer behavior, including the rapid adoption of mobile phones, tablets, electronic readers
and other portable devices as platforms through which news and information is consumed, require the Company to continually innovate and improve upon its own products, services and platforms in order to remain competitive. The Company believes that
these changes will continue to pose opportunities and challenges, and that it is well positioned to leverage its global reach, brand recognition and proprietary technology to take advantage of the opportunities presented by these changes.

Dow Jones professional information products that target enterprise customers compete with various information service
providers, compliance data providers and global financial newswires, including Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg L.P., LexisNexis, as well as many other providers of news, information and compliance data.

NAM competes against other providers of advertising, marketing and merchandising products and services, including those that provide
promotional or advertising inserts, direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, providers of point-of-purchase and other in-store programs and providers of savings and/or grocery-focused digital applications, as well as other media
platforms such as television, magazines, outdoor displays and radio. Competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, rate of coupon redemption, store
coverage and other factors. The Company believes that based on the circulation of its free-standing inserts, the reach of its in-store marketing products and the audience for its online programs, NAM provides broader consumer access than many of its
competitors.

Book Publishing

The Company’s Book Publishing segment consists of HarperCollins Publishers (together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, “HarperCollins”), the second largest consumer book publisher in
the world based on global revenue, with operations in 18 countries. HarperCollins publishes and distributes consumer books globally through print, digital and audio formats. Its digital formats include electronic books, also referred to as e-books,
for devices such as tablets and electronic readers, as well as audio downloads for smartphones and MP3 players. HarperCollins owns over 120 branded imprints, including Avon, Harper, HarperCollins Children’s Books, William Morrow and Christian
publishers Zondervan and Thomas Nelson. In addition, in August 2014, HarperCollins acquired Harlequin Enterprises Limited, a leading publisher of women’s fiction, extending its global platform, particularly in Europe and Asia Pacific.

HarperCollins publishes works by well-known authors such as Harper Lee, Mitch Albom, Veronica Roth, Rick Warren and Agatha
Christie and popular titles such asThe Hobbit,Goodnight Moon,To Kill a Mockingbirdand theDivergentseries. Its print and digital global catalog includes more than 200,000 publications in different formats and in over
30 languages. HarperCollins publishes fiction and nonfiction, with a focus on general, children’s and religious content. Additionally, in the U.K., HarperCollins publishes titles for the equivalent of the K-12 educational market.

As of June 30, 2015, HarperCollins offered approximately 100,000 publications in digital formats, and nearly all of
HarperCollins’ new titles, as well as the majority of its entire catalog, are available as e-books. Digital sales, comprising revenues generated through the sale of e-books as well as digital audio books, represented approximately 22% of global
consumer revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. With the widespread adoption of electronic formats by consumers, HarperCollins is publishing a number of titles in digital formats before, or instead of, publishing a print edition. For
example, through its popular romance imprint, Avon, HarperCollins launched a “digital-first” series which releases at least one new title per week in the romance category. HarperCollins’ “digital-first” series have
collectively generated 15New York Timeselectronic bestsellers since launch.







During fiscal 2015, HarperCollins U.S. had 214 titles on theNew York Timesprint and
digital bestseller lists, with 15 titles hitting number one, includingDivergent(series) by Veronica Roth,Heaven is For Realby Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent,Yes Pleaseby Amy Poehler,The Heistby Daniel Silva,American Sniperby Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen & Jim De Felice andThe Promiseby Robyn Carr.

HarperCollins derives its revenue from the sale of print and digital books to a customer base that includes global technology companies,
traditional brick and mortar booksellers, wholesale clubs and discount stores, including Amazon, Apple, Barnes & Noble and Tesco. Revenues at the Book Publishing segment are significantly affected by the timing of releases and the number of
HarperCollins’ books in the marketplace, and are typically highest during the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to increased demand during the end-of-year holiday season in its main operating geographies.

The book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that is quickly changing and continues to see technological
innovations, including tablets and electronic readers sold by Amazon, Apple, Google and Barnes & Noble. HarperCollins competes with other large publishers, such as Penguin Random House, Simon & Schuster and Hachette Livre, as well
as with numerous smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities; competition could also come from new entrants as barriers to entry in book publishing are low. In addition, HarperCollins competes for
readership with other media formats and sources. The Company believes HarperCollins is well positioned in the evolving book publishing market with significant size and brand recognition across multiple categories and geographies. Furthermore,
HarperCollins is a leader in children’s and religious books, categories which have been less impacted by the transition to digital consumption.

Digital Real Estate Services

The Company’s Digital Real Estate
Services segment consists of its 61.6% interest in REA Group Limited (“REA Group”), a publicly-traded company on ASX (ASX: REA), and its 80% interest in Move, Inc. (“Move”). The remaining 20% interest in Move is held by REA
Group.

REA Group

REA Group is a multinational digital advertising business specializing in property. REA Group operates Australia’s leading residential and commercial property websites, realestate.com.au and
realcommercial.com.au, as well as European property sites and Chinese property site myfun.com.

REA Group’s international operations include property sites in Europe and Asia. Its Italian property site, casa.it, has approximately 9.6 million visits on average each month based on Adobe
Omniture SiteCatalyst







monthly site visits for the year ended June 30, 2015. REA Group also operates sites in Luxembourg and regions of France, including atHome.lu, atOffice.lu and immoRegion.fr. These sites have
approximately 1.0 million visits combined on average each month based on Adobe Omniture SiteCatalyst monthly site visits for the year ended June 30, 2015. In Asia, REA Group operates a Chinese site, myfun.com, which showcases Australian
property listings to Chinese property seekers. Myfun.com has approximately 73,000 visits on average each month based on Adobe Omniture SiteCatalyst monthly site visits for the year ended June 30, 2015. As of June 30, 2015, REA Group’s
other assets included a 19.9% interest in Asia’s iProperty Group Limited, which has operations primarily in Malaysia, Indonesia, Hong Kong, Thailand, Macau and Singapore.

REA Group competes primarily with other property websites in its geographic markets, including domain.com.au in Australia.

Move

Move, which the Company acquired in
November 2014, is a leading provider of online real estate services in the U.S. Move primarily operates
realtor.com®, a premier real estate information and services marketplace, under a perpetual agreement and
trademark license with the National Association of Realtors®(“NAR”). Through realtor.com®, consumers have access to over 3.3 million properties across the U.S., including the most complete collection
of homes and properties listed with Multiple Listing Services (“MLS”) and displayed for sale among the competing national online portals. Realtor.com®and its related mobile applications display approximately 98% of all MLS-listed, for-sale properties in the U.S., which are primarily sourced directly from
relationships with MLSs across the country. Over 90% of its for-sale listings are updated at least every 15 minutes, on average, with the remaining listings updated daily. Realtor.com®’s substantial content advantage attracts a highly engaged consumer audience. Based on internal data,
realtor.com®and its mobile sites had 45 million average monthly unique users during the quarter ended
June 30, 2015. These users viewed an average of over 1.3 billion pages and spent an average of over 1.1 billion minutes on the realtor.com®website and mobile applications each month.

Realtor.com®generates the majority of its revenues through the
sale of listing advertisement products, including Connection for Co-Brokerage, ShowcaseSMListing Enhancements and Featured HomesSM, which allow real estate agents, brokers and franchises to enhance, prioritize and connect with consumers of for-sale property listings within the realtor.com®website and mobile applications. Listing advertisements are typically sold on a subscription basis. Realtor.com®also derives revenue from sales of non-listing advertisement, or Media, products to real estate, finance, insurance,
home improvement and other professionals that enable those professionals to connect with realtor.com®’s
highly engaged and valuable consumer audience. Media products include sponsorships, display advertisements, text links, directories, Featured CommunityTMand Featured CMATM. Non-listing advertisement pricing models include cost per thousand, cost per click, cost per unique user and
subscription-based sponsorships of specific content areas or targeted geographies.

In addition to
realtor.com®, Move also offers a number of professional software and services products. These include the Top
Producer®and TigerLead®productivity and lead management tools and services, which are tailored to real estate agents and sold on a subscription basis, as well as the ListHubTMservice, which syndicates for-sale listing information from
MLSs and other reliable data sources, such as real estate brokerages, and distributes that content to an array of web sites. Listing syndication pricing includes fixed- or variable-pricing models based on listing counts, while ListHubTM’s advanced reporting products are sold on a monthly
subscription basis.

Move competes primarily with other real estate websites focused on the U.S. real estate market, including
zillow.com and trulia.com.







Cable Network Programming

FOX SPORTS Australia competes primarily with ESPN,
beIN SPORTS, the Free-To-Air (“FTA”) channels and certain telecommunications companies in Australia.

Digital Education

The Company’s Digital Education segment consists of Amplify, the brand for its digital education business, which it
launched in July 2012. Amplify’s technology solutions transform the way teachers teach and students learn in two primary areas:



•Amplify Insight:Amplify’s data and assessment business, which formerly operated under the brand Wireless Generation, commenced operations
in 2000 and was acquired in fiscal 2011. Amplify Insight provides powerful assessment products and services to support teachers and school districts, including student assessment tools and analytic technologies, intervention programs, enterprise
education information systems, and professional development and consulting services.



•Amplify Learning: Amplify’s curriculum business is developing digital content for K-12 English Language Arts, Math and Science, including
software that combines interactive, game-like experiences, rich immersive media, and sophisticated analytics to make the classroom teaching and learning experience more engaging, rigorous, personalized and effective. Amplify Learning’s digital
curriculum incorporates the Common Core State Standards adopted by most states in the U.S. and is available for use on multiple platforms.

Amplify also operates Amplify Access, a platform business that delivers a tablet-based distribution system which includes a tablet designed for the K-12 market, instructional software and curated
third-party content.

The Company has initiated a strategic review of its digital education business. In the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2015, the Company determined it would cease actively marketing Amplify’s Access products to new customers; however, it will continue to provide service and support to its existing customers. The Company is reviewing strategic
alternatives with respect to the Insight and Learning businesses.

Amplify’s digital products are or will generally be
available on a subscription basis. The Company also markets and sells some supplemental print-based materials, as well as instructional and information technology-







related services. Amplify competes with existing K-12 education publishers and content providers such as Pearson plc, McGraw-Hill Education and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, as well as a number of
smaller content, analytics and distribution platform companies.

Other

The Other segment includes the Company’s general corporate overhead expenses, corporate Strategy and Creative Group and costs related
to the U.K. Newspaper Matters. The Company’s corporate Strategy and Creative Group was formed to identify new products and services across the Company’s businesses to increase revenues and profitability and to target and assess potential
acquisitions and investments. Initiatives include the News Corp Global Exchange, the Company’s global programmatic advertising exchange that enables marketers to leverage the Company’s leading online and mobile products and first-party
data for real-time bidding, as well as the launch of the Company’s BallBall mobile app in Japan, Indonesia and Vietnam, which combines the Company’s rights to exclusive football highlight clips, expert coverage, commentary and analysis
fromThe Times,The Sunday TimesandThe Sun. As part of its ongoing role in assessing potential acquisitions, the corporate Strategy and Creative Group also oversaw the Company’s acquisitions of Move, a leading provider of
online real estate services in the U.S., in November 2014 and Storyful, the world’s first social media news agency, in December 2013.

Equity Investments

Foxtel

The Company and Telstra, an ASX-listed telecommunications company, each own 50% of Foxtel, the largest pay-TV provider
in Australia. Foxtel had approximately 2.8 million subscribing households throughout Australia as of June 30, 2015 through cable, satellite and IP distribution.

Foxtel generates revenue primarily through subscription revenue as well as advertising revenue. For the year ended
June 30, 2015, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), Foxtel recorded revenues of $2.66 billion and earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, of
$760 million. Management believes that EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of this business for the reasons set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Results of Operations—Segment Analysis” with respect to Segment EBITDA. In the year ended June 30, 2015, Foxtel’s average residential recurring subscription revenue







per user, or ARPU, was A$93 (US$78) per month (as calculated by Foxtel), and its annualized residential subscriber churn rate based on data for the year ended June 30, 2015 was 10.9% (as
calculated by Foxtel). In addition, Foxtel had $1.8 billion of indebtedness outstanding as of June 30, 2015 (excluding $691 million of shareholder loans due to Telstra and the Company), and paid distributions of $107 million to the
Company during the year ended June 30, 2015. The amount included for Foxtel in the Company’s Equity earnings of affiliates was $59 million for the year ended June 30, 2015.

The Company and Telstra each have the right to appoint one-half of the board of directors of Foxtel. In addition, the Company has the
right to appoint the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Foxtel, while Telstra has the right to terminate these officers.

Foxtel competes primarily with the three major commercial FTA networks and two major government-funded FTA broadcasters in Australia for audiences, as well as other pay-TV operators, IP television
providers and subscription video-on-demand services such as Fetch TV, Netflix and Stan. Foxtel provides a 200-plus channel selection with premium and exclusive content and a wide array of digital and mobile features that are not available to viewers
on these alternative providers. Through innovations such as digital HD channels, the extension of pay-TV programming to mobile devices, the use of DVR and Electronic Program Guide technology, including the newly-launched iQ3 set-top box, and
benefits through broadband bundling, the Company believes Foxtel offers subscribers a compelling alternative to FTA TV and Foxtel’s other competitors.

Governmental Regulation

General

Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. The Company
believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations described herein. The introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company’s products and services are produced or
distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the Company’s interests.

Australian Media Regulation

The Company’s subscription television
interests are subject to Australia’s regulatory framework for the broadcasting industry. The key regulatory body for the Australian broadcasting industry is the Australian Communications and Media Authority.

Key regulatory issues for subscription television providers include: (a) anti-siphoning restrictions—currently under the
‘anti-siphoning’ provisions of the Australian Broadcasting Services Act 1992 (Cth), subscription television providers are prevented from acquiring rights to televise certain listed events (for example, the Olympic Games and certain
Australian Rules football and cricket matches) unless national and commercial television broadcasters have not obtained these rights 12 weeks before the start of the event or the rights to televise are also held by commercial television licensees
who have rights to televise the event to more than 50% of the Australian population or the rights to televise are also held by one of Australia’s two major government-funded broadcasters; and (b) the Broadcasting Services Act also may
impact the Company’s ownership structure and operations and restrict its ability to take advantage of acquisition or investment opportunities including, for example, preventing it from exercising control of a commercial television broadcasting
license, a commercial radio license and a newspaper in the same license area.

U.K. Press Regulation

On July 13, 2011, Prime Minister David Cameron announced a two-part inquiry into the U.K. press and appointed Lord Justice Leveson as
Chairman of the Inquiry. The inquiry was triggered by allegations of illegal voicemail interception at the Company’s former publication,The News of the World. Hearings opened on







November 14, 2011 with respect to the first part of the inquiry, and Lord Justice Leveson published his report on November 29, 2012. The report made recommendations on the future of
press regulation and governance in the U.K., which have been the subject of debate in the U.K. parliament, as well as discussion both among newspaper groups (including News UK) and the industry and the government. A date has yet to be set for the
second part of the inquiry.

In 2013, a Royal Charter on Self-Regulation of the Press was granted, which established a
Recognition Panel responsible for recognizing, overseeing and monitoring a new press regulatory body or bodies. The Panel is currently determining how it will receive and approve applications from bodies applying to become a press regulatory body
and intends to start accepting applications later in 2015. The new press regulatory body or bodies, a majority of the board members of which would be independent of the industry, would be responsible for overseeing participating publishers. The U.K.
Government also passed legislation which ensures that the Royal Charter can only be altered by a two-thirds majority of parliament. In addition to the Royal Charter and establishment of a new regulatory body, legislation has been passed that
provides that publishers who do not participate in this new U.K. press regulatory system may be liable for exemplary damages in certain cases where such damages are not currently awarded.

In late 2013, publications representing the majority of the industry in the U.K., including News UK, entered into binding contracts to
form an alternative new regulator instead, which is referred to as the Independent Press Standards Organisation, or IPSO. Since then, IPSO has been established and began operating in September 2014. IPSO currently has no plans to apply for
recognition from the Recognition Panel. IPSO has an independent chairman and a 12-member board, the majority of which are independent. IPSO oversees the Editors’ Code of Practice, requires members to implement appropriate internal governance
processes and requires self-reporting of any failures, provides a complaints handling service, has the ability to require publications to print corrections and has the power to investigate serious or systemic breaches of the press code and levy
fines. IPSO is also considering the introduction of an arbitration scheme to resolve claims against publications. IPSO imposes burdens on the print media, including the Company’s newspaper businesses in the U.K., which may result in competitive
disadvantages versus other forms of media and may increase the costs of compliance.

Data Privacy and Security

Similar laws
and regulations have been implemented in many of the other jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including the European Union and Australia. The European Union is currently considering a new privacy regulation that would replace its existing
Data Protection Directive and, if adopted in its current proposed form, would expand the regulation of the collection, use and security of personal data, continue to







restrict the trans-border flow of such data, introduce an expanded right of individuals to have their data deleted upon request, enhance penalties for non-compliance and increase the enforcement
powers of the European Commission. In Australia, recent changes in data privacy laws impose additional requirements on organizations that handle personal data by, among other things, requiring the disclosure of cross-border data transfers and
placing restrictions on direct marketing practices, and additional data privacy and security requirements and industry standards are under consideration.

In response to such developments, industry participants in the U.S., Europe and Australia have taken steps to increase compliance with relevant industry-level standards and practices, including the
implementation of self-regulatory regimes for online behavioral advertising that impose obligations on participating companies, such as the Company, to give consumers a better understanding of, and greater control over, advertisements that are
customized based on their online behavior. In the U.S., the Council on Better Business Bureaus has begun enforcing the Digital Advertising Alliance’s Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising with respect to native
advertising, requiring real-time notice and an opportunity to opt out in connection with such advertisements.

The Company
monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments.

Education

The availability of funding for K-12 education is affected by
changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, as well as changes in the state procurement process. Future changes in federal funding and the state and local tax base could create an unfavorable environment, leading to budget issues
and resulting decreases in educational funding that could, in turn, have an adverse impact on the Company’s digital education business.

Intellectual Property

The Company’s intellectual property assets include: copyrights in newspapers, books, television programming and other content and
technologies; trademarks in names and logos; trade names; domain names; and licenses of intellectual property rights. In addition, its intellectual property assets include patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products,
business methods and/or services, none of which are material to its financial condition or results of operations. The Company derives value and revenue from these assets through, among other things, print and digital newspaper and magazine
subscriptions and sales, the sale, distribution and/or licensing of print and digital books, the sale of subscriptions to its content and information services, the operation of websites and other digital properties and the distribution and/or
licensing of its television programming to cable and satellite television services.

The Company devotes significant resources
to protecting its intellectual property assets in the U.S., the U.K., Australia and other foreign territories. To protect these assets, the Company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other
laws and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products, services and content and related intellectual
property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the Company’s intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit such threat through a combination of approaches,
including pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. Piracy,
including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property.

Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights.
Irrespective of their







validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. Moreover, effective intellectual property
protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Therefore, the Company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective
enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement.

Raw Materials

As a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the Company utilizes substantial quantities of various
types of paper. In order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the Company’s paper purchasing is done on a regional, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. The Company
believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate.

Employees

As of June 30, 2015, the Company had approximately 25,000 employees, of whom approximately 10,000 were located in the
U.S., 4,000 were located in the U.K. and 8,000 were located in Australia. Of the Company’s employees, approximately 8,000 were represented by various employee unions. The contracts with such unions will expire during various times over the next
several years. The Company believes its current relationships with employees are generally good.



