ITEM 1.BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

The Company

News Corporation (the “Company,” “News Corp,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global diversified media and information services company focused on creating and
distributing authoritative and engaging content to consumers and businesses throughout the world. The Company comprises businesses across a range of media, including: news and information services, book publishing, digital real estate services,
cable network programming in Australia and pay-TV distribution in Australia, that are distributed under some of the world’s most recognizable and respected brands, includingThe Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones,The Australian,Herald Sun,The Sun,The Times,HarperCollins Publishers, FOX SPORTS Australia, realestate.com.au, realtor.com®, Foxtel and many others. The Company’s commitment to premium content makes its properties a trusted source of
news and information and a premier destination for consumers across various media. Many of these properties deliver broad reach and high audience engagement levels in their respective markets, making them attractive advertising vehicles for the
Company’s advertising customers.

The Company delivers its premium content to consumers across numerous distribution
platforms consisting not only of traditional print and television, but also through an array of digital platforms including websites, applications for mobile devices and tablets, social media and e-book devices. The Company is focused on pursuing
integrated strategies across its businesses to continue to capitalize on the growth in digital consumption of high-quality content. The Company believes that the increasing number of media choices and formats will allow it to continue to deliver its
content in a more engaging, timely and personalized manner, provide opportunities to more effectively monetize its content via strong customer relationships and more compelling and engaging advertising solutions and reduce its physical production
and distribution costs as it continues to focus on its digital platforms.

The Company’s diversified revenue base
consists of advertising sales, recurring subscriptions, circulation copies, licensing fees, affiliate fees, direct sales and sponsorship sales. The Company manages its businesses to take advantage of opportunities to share technologies and practices
across geographies and businesses and bundle selected offerings to provide greater value to consumers and advertising partners. Headquartered in New York, the Company operates primarily in the United States, Australia and the U.K., and its content
is distributed and consumed worldwide. The Company’s operations are organized into five reporting segments: (i) News and Information Services; (ii) Book Publishing; (iii) Digital Real Estate Services; (iv) Cable Network
Programming; and (v) Other, which includes the Company’s general corporate overhead expenses, corporate Strategy and Creative Group and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters, as defined in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” The
Company also owns a 50% stake in Foxtel, the largest pay-TV provider in Australia, which is accounted for as an equity investment.

The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to June 30 in each year. Fiscal 2016, fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014 included 53, 52 and 52 weeks, respectively. Unless
otherwise noted, all references to the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016, June 30, 2015 and June 30, 2014 relate to the fiscal years ended July 3, 2016, June 28, 2015 and June 29, 2014, respectively. For convenience
purposes, the Company continues to date its financial statements as of June 30.

Corporate Information

News Corporation is a Delaware corporation originally organized on December 11, 2012 in connection with its separation (the
“Separation”) from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. (formerly named News Corporation) (“21st Century Fox”), which was completed on June 28, 2013 (the “Distribution Date”). In connection with the







Separation, the Company assumed the name “News Corporation.” Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 (the
“Annual Report”) to the “Company,” “News Corp,” “we,” “us,” or “our” means News Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue
of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, and its telephone number is (212) 416-3400. The Company’s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) under the trading symbols
“NWSA” and “NWS,” respectively, and CHESS Depositary Interests (“CDIs”) representing the Company’s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (“ASX”) under the
trading symbols “NWSLV” and “NWS,” respectively. More information regarding the Company is available on its website atwww.newscorp.com, including the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are available, free of charge, as
soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements







BUSINESS OVERVIEW

The Company’s five reporting segments are described below. In addition, the Company owns a 50% stake in Foxtel, which is accounted for as an equity investment. For financial information regarding the
Company’s segments and operations in geographic areas, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements.



For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016RevenuesSegmentEBITDA(in millions)News and Information Services$5,338$214Book Publishing1,646185Digital Real Estate Services822344Cable Network Programming484124Other2(183)Total$8,292$684

News and Information Services

The Company’s News and Information Services segment consists primarily of Dow Jones, News Corp Australia (which includes News Limited and its subsidiaries), News UK (formerly known as News
International), theNewYork Postand News America Marketing. This segment also includes Unruly Holdings Limited (“Unruly”), a leading global video advertising distribution platform, and Storyful Limited
(“Storyful”), a social media content agency that enables the Company to source real-time video content through social media platforms. The News and Information Services segment generates revenue primarily through print and digital
advertising sales and through circulation and subscriptions to its print and digital products. Advertising revenues at the News and Information Services segment are subject to seasonality, with revenues typically being highest in the Company’s
second fiscal quarter due to the end-of-year holiday season in its main operating geographies.

Dow Jones

Dow Jones is a global provider of news and business information, which distributes its content and data through a variety of media
channels including newspapers, newswires, websites, applications for mobile devices, tablets and e-book readers, newsletters, magazines, proprietary databases, conferences and video. Dow Jones’s products, which target individual consumer and
enterprise customers, includeThe Wall Street Journal, Factiva, Dow Jones Risk & Compliance, Dow Jones Newswires,Barron’s, MarketWatch, Dow Jones PEVC and DJX. Dow Jones’s revenue is diversified across
business-to-consumer and business-to-business subscriptions, circulation, advertising and licensing fees for its print and digital products.

Through its premier brands and authoritative journalism, Dow Jones’s products targeting individual consumers provide insights, research and understanding that enable customers to stay informed and
make educated financial decisions. With a focus on the financial markets, investing and other professional services, many of these products offer advertisers an attractive customer demographic. Products targeting consumers include the following:



•The Wall Street Journal (WSJ). WSJ, Dow Jones’s flagship product, is available in print, online and across multiple mobile, tablet and
e-book devices. WSJ covers national and international news and provides analysis, commentary and opinions on a wide range of topics, including business developments and trends, economics, financial markets, investing, science and technology,
lifestyle, culture and sports. WSJ had average print and digital issue sales of approximately 2,341,000, including average print and digital subscriptions of approximately 2,035,000, of which approximately 948,000 were digital-only subscriptions,
for the period from March 28, 2016 to July 3, 2016 based on internal data, with independent assurance provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP UK. WSJ is printed at plants located







around the U.S., including eight owned by the Company. WSJ sells regional advertising in three major U.S. regional editions (Eastern, Central and Western) and 21 smaller sub-regional editions.
WSJ’s digital products, described below, which offer both free and premium content, averaged nearly 93 million visits per month for the 12 months ended June 30, 2016 according to Adobe Analytics, and include local language content in
multiple languages. Print and digital products under the WSJ brand include:

Print:The Wall
Street Journal(including its Asia and Europe editions) andWSJ.Magazine.

Digital: WSJ.com, WSJ Mobile and
WSJ Video.

WSJ.com. WSJ.com includesRisk& Compliance Journal,CIO Journal, CFO
Journal,CMO Today, WSJ.D (WSJ’s home for technology news, analysis, commentary, daily buzz and consumer product reviews), WSJ+ (a complimentary membership for WSJ subscribers that provides premium offers such as exclusive event
invitations) and WSJ.com international sites such as WSJ.com/Asia and WSJ.com/Europe.

WSJ Mobile. WSJ offers a range
of mobile products, including a responsive-design website and applications for multiple mobile devices. For the 12 months ended June 30, 2016, WSJ Mobile (including WSJ.com accessed via mobile devices, as well as applications) accounted for
approximately 50% of visits to WSJ’s digital news and information products according to Adobe Analytics.

WSJ
Video. WSJ video provides live and on-demand news online through WSJ.com and other platforms, including YouTube, Internet-connected TV and set-top boxes.



•Dow Jones Media Group. The new Dow Jones Media Group focuses on Dow Jones consumer brands outside of The Wall Street Journal franchise,
includingBarron’sand MarketWatch, among other properties.

Barron’s.Barron’s,which is available in print, online and on multiple mobile, tablet and e-book devices, delivers news, analysis, investigative reporting, company profiles and insightful statistics for investors and others interested in the
investment world.Barron’shad average print and digital issue sales of approximately 438,000, including average print and digital subscriptions of approximately 423,000, of which approximately 133,000 were digital-only subscriptions,
for the period from March 28, 2016 to July 3, 2016 based on internal data, with independent assurance provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP UK.

MarketWatch.MarketWatch is an investing and financial news website targeting active investors. It also provides real-time commentary and investment tools and data. Products include mobile
and tablet applications, a mobile site and MarketWatch Premium Newsletters (paid newsletters on a variety of investing topics). MarketWatch averaged more than 50 million visits per month for the 12 months ended June 30, 2016 according to
Adobe Analytics.



•The Wall Street Journal Digital Network (WSJDN). WSJDN offers advertisers the opportunity to reach Dow Jones’s audience across a number of
brands, including the WSJ.com, Barrons.com and MarketWatch.com websites. During the year ended June 30, 2016, WSJDN averaged nearly 143 million visits per month, with an average of more than 364 million page views per month, according
to Adobe Analytics.







Dow Jones’s professional information products, which target enterprise customers,
combine news and information with technology and tools that inform decisions and aid awareness, research and understanding. These products are designed to be integral to the success of Dow Jones’s enterprise customers, and Dow Jones expects to
continue to build strong customer relationships by providing high levels of service and continued innovation through news, data and tools that meet its customers’ specific needs. These products include the following:



•Knowledge and Insight. Dow Jones Knowledge and Insight products provide data and analysis from curated sources and include:

Factiva.Factiva is a leading provider of global business content, built on an archive of
important, original publishing sources. This combination of business news and information, plus sophisticated tools, helps professionals find, monitor, interpret and share essential information. As of June 30, 2016, there were approximately 1.2
million activated Factiva users, including both institutional and individual accounts. Many of the institutional accounts have multiple individual users. Factiva offers content from over 33,000 global news and information sources from nearly 200
countries and in 28 languages. Thousands of Factiva’s sources are not available for free on the Internet and more than 4,000 sources make information available via Factiva on or before the date of publication by the source. Factiva leverages
complex metadata extraction and text-mining to help its customers build precise searches and alerts to access and monitor this data.

Dow Jones PEVC.Dow Jones PEVC products provide news and deal data on venture capital and private equity-backed private companies and their investors to help venture capital and private
equity professionals, financial services professionals and other service providers identify deal and partnership opportunities, perform due diligence and examine trends in venture capital and private equity investment, fund-raising and liquidity.
Products include VentureSource, LP Source, VentureWire, Private Equity Analyst, LBO Wire, Private Equity News, Daily Bankruptcy Review (“DBR”), DBR Small Cap and DBR High Yield.

DJX. DJX is comprised of a bundle of underlying products, including Factiva, Dow Jones Newswires, certain PEVC products, including
Venture Source and LP Source, certain Risk & Compliance products, WSJ.com and Barrons.com.



•Dow Jones Risk& Compliance.Dow Jones Risk & Compliance products provide data solutions for customers focused
on anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, monitoring embargo and sanction lists and other compliance requirements. Dow Jones’s solutions allow customers to filter their business transactions against its data to identify regulatory, corporate
and reputational risk, and request follow-up due diligence reports. Products include online risk data and negative news searching tools such as Risk Database Search/Research/Premium and the Risk & Compliance Portal for batch screening. Feed
services include Dow Jones Watchlist, Dow Jones Anti-Corruption, Dow Jones Sanction Alert and Adverse Media Entities. In addition, Dow Jones produces customized Due Diligence Reports to assist its clients with regulatory compliance.



•Dow Jones Newswires.Dow Jones Newswires distributes real-time business news, information, analysis, commentary and statistical data to
financial professionals and investors worldwide. It publishes, on average, over 16,000 news items each day, which are distributed via terminals, trading platforms and websites reaching hundreds of thousands of financial professionals. This content
also reaches millions of individual investors via customer portals and the intranets of brokerage and trading firms, as well as digital media publishers.

News Corp Australia

News Corp Australia is one of the leading news
and information providers in Australia by readership and circulation, owning over 100 newspapers covering a national, regional and suburban footprint. As of March 31, 2016, its daily, Sunday, weekly and bi-weekly newspapers accounted for more
than 59% of the total circulation







of newspapers in Australia, and during the year ended March 31, 2016, its Sunday newspaper network was read by approximately 4.0 million Australians on average every week. In addition, its
digital mastheads and other websites are among the leading digital news properties in Australia based on monthly unique audience data. News Corp Australia’s news portfolio includes:



•The AustralianandThe Weekend Australian(National).The Australianis published Monday through Friday, andThe Weekend
Australianis published on Saturday. Based on Audit Bureau of Circulations (“ABC”) data, average daily paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2016 was approximately 102,000 forThe Australianand 225,000 forThe Weekend Australianand average daily paid digital circulation for each was approximately 74,000. In addition,The AustralianandThe Weekend Australianhad a total unduplicated print and digital audience of almost 3.1
million for the month of March 2016 based on Enhanced Media Metrics Australia (“EMMA”) average monthly print data for the year ended March 31, 2016 and Nielsen desktop, mobile and tablet audience data for March 2016. EMMA data
incorporates more frequent sampling and combines both online usage derived from Nielsen data and print usage into a single metric that removes any audience overlap.



•The Daily TelegraphandThe Sunday Telegraph(Sydney). The Daily Telegraphis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC
data, average daily paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2016 was approximately 251,000 forThe Daily Telegraphand 441,000 forThe Sunday Telegraph. In addition,The Daily TelegraphandThe Sunday
Telegraphhad a total unduplicated print and digital audience of almost 4.4 million for the month of March 2016 based on EMMA average monthly print data for the year ended March 31, 2016 and Nielsen desktop, mobile and tablet audience data for
March 2016.



•Herald SunandSunday Herald Sun(Melbourne).Herald Sunis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily
paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2016 was approximately 339,000 forHerald Sunand 396,000 forSunday Herald Sun. In addition,Herald SunandSunday Herald Sunhad a total unduplicated print and
digital audience of almost 4.3 million for the month of March 2016 based on EMMA average monthly print data for the year ended March 31, 2016 and Nielsen desktop, mobile and tablet audience data for March 2016.



•The Courier-MailandThe Sunday Mail(Brisbane).The Courier-Mailis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average
daily paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2016 was approximately 156,000 forThe Courier-Mailand 338,000 forThe Sunday Mail. In addition,The Courier-MailandThe Sunday Mailhad a total
unduplicated print and digital audience of almost 3.1 million for the month of March 2016 based on EMMA average monthly print data for the year ended March 31, 2016 and Nielsen desktop, mobile and tablet audience data for March 2016.



•The AdvertiserandSunday Mail(Adelaide).The Advertiseris published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily
paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2016 was approximately 134,000 forThe Advertiserand 204,000 forSunday Mail. In addition,The AdvertiserandSunday Mailhad a total unduplicated print and
digital audience of almost 1.7 million for the month of March 2016 based on EMMA average monthly print data for the year ended March 31, 2016 and Nielsen desktop, mobile and tablet audience data for March 2016.



•A large number of community newspapers in all major capital cities, as well as leading regional publications in Cairns, Gold Coast, Townsville and
Geelong and in the other capital cities of Perth, Hobart and Darwin.



•News Corp Australia has paid digital platforms forThe Australian, The Weekend Australian, Herald Sun, Sunday Herald Sun, The Daily Telegraph, The
Sunday Telegraph, The Courier-Mail, The Sunday Mail, The AdvertiserandSunday Mail.

News Corp
Australia’s broad portfolio of digital properties also includes news.com.au, the leading general interest site in Australia that provides breaking news, finance, entertainment, lifestyle, technology and sports news and delivers an average
monthly unique audience of approximately 5.6 million based on Nielsen monthly







total audience ratings for the three months ended June 30, 2016. In addition, News Corp Australia owns other premier properties such as taste.com.au, a leading food and recipe site, and
kidspot.com.au, a leading parenting website, as well as various other digital media assets, including a 70.6% stake in the Sports Technology Group, which supplies a scheduling tool for sports and other community organizations. As of June 30,
2016, News Corp Australia’s other assets included a 14.99% interest in APN News and Media Limited, which operates a portfolio of Australian radio and outdoor media assets and small regional print interests, a 13.75% interest in SEEKAsia
Limited, which operates leading online employment marketplaces throughout Southeast Asia, and a 25% interest in Hipages Group Pty Ltd., which operates a leading on-demand home improvement services marketplace.

News UK

News UK
publishesThe Sun,The Sun on Sunday,The TimesandThe Sunday Times,which are leading newspapers in the U.K.As of June 30, 2016, sales of these four titles accounted for approximately one-third of all
national newspaper sales in the U.K. News UK’s newspapers (except some Saturday and Sunday supplements) are printed at News UK’s world-class printing facilities in England, Scotland and Ireland. In addition to revenue from the sale of
advertising, circulation and subscriptions to its print and digital products, News UK generates revenue by providing third party printing services through these facilities and is one of the largest contract printers in the U.K. News UK also
distributes content through its digital platforms, including its websites, thesun.co.uk, thetimes.co.uk and thesundaytimes.co.uk, as well as mobile and tablet applications. News UK’s online and mobile offerings include the rights to show
English Premier League Football, English Premiership Rugby Union, Gaelic Athletic Association games and UEFA Champions League and Europa League match clips across its digital platforms. News UK’s portfolio includes:



•The Sun.Published Monday through Sunday. Based on National Readership Survey data for the six months ended March 31, 2016,The Sunis the most read national newspaper in the U.K.,
with an average issue readership of approximately 4,427,000 Monday through Saturday forThe Sunand 3,674,000 forThe Sun on Sunday. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2016 based on ABC data was
approximately 1,743,000 forThe Sunand 1,445,000 forThe Sun on Sunday.As of June 30, 2016, The Sun online had approximately 42 million monthly unique visitors worldwide based on ABC Electronic (Omniture).



•The Times.Published Monday through Saturday with an average issue readership of approximately 1,098,000 for the six months ended March 31,
2016 based on National Readership Survey data. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2016 based on ABC data was approximately 426,000. As of June 30, 2016,The Timeshad approximately 169,000 paid
print subscribers and 156,000 paid digital subscribers based on internal sources. News UK also publishesThe Times Literary Supplement, a weekly literary review.



•The Sunday Times. Leading broadsheet Sunday newspaper in the U.K. with an average issue readership of approximately 1,718,000 for the six months
ended March 31, 2016 based on National Readership Survey data. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2016 based on ABC data was approximately 782,000. As of June 30, 2016,The Sunday Timeshad
approximately 203,000 paid print subscribers and 170,000 paid digital subscribers based on internal sources.

In addition, News UK has also assembled a portfolio of complementary ancillary product offerings, including Sun Bingo and the recently
launched Sun Bets, an online sports betting service.

New York Post

NYP Holdings is the publisher of theNew York Post(the “Post”), NYPost.com, PageSix.com, Decider.com and related
smartphone and tablet apps and social media channels. ThePostis the oldest continuously published daily newspaper in the U.S., with a focus on coverage of the New York metropolitan area. ThePostprovides a variety of general
interest content ranging from breaking news to business analysis, and is known in particular for







its comprehensive sports coverage, famous headlines and its iconic Page Six section, an authority on celebrity news. The print version of thePostis primarily distributed in New York,
where it is printed in a printing facility in the Bronx, as well as throughout the Northeast, Florida and California, where it uses Dow Jones’s printing facilities or third party printers. For the three months ended June 30, 2016, average
weekday circulation based on AAM data, including smartphone and tablet app digital editions, was 418,857. In addition, the Post Digital Network, which includes NYPost.com, PageSix.com and Decider.com, reached approximately 49 million
unique users on average each month during the quarter ended June 30, 2016 according to Google Analytics.

News America Marketing

News America Marketing (“NAM”) is the premier marketing partner of some of the world’s most well-known
brands, and its broad portfolio of products and services influences the purchasing decisions of online and offline shoppers across the U.S. and Canada. NAM’s marketing solutions are available via multiple distribution channels, including
publications, in stores and online, primarily under the SmartSource brand name and through the Checkout 51 mobile application.

NAM provides customers with solutions across the shopper’s path to purchase, focusing primarily on the following three business
areas:



•Home-Delivered: NAM is one of the leading providers of home-delivered shopper media, including free-standing inserts and direct mail products.
Free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to millions of households under the SmartSource Magazine®brand through insertion primarily into local Sunday publications. Advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay NAM to produce free-standing inserts where
their offers are featured, often on an exclusive basis within their product category. NAM contracts with and pays publishers as well as printers, among others, to produce and/or distribute free-standing inserts in their papers.



•In-Store Advertising and Merchandising: NAM is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged
goods manufacturers. NAM’s marketing products include: at-shelf advertising such as coupon, information and sample-dispensing machines, as well as floor and shopping cart advertising, among others, and are found in thousands of shopping
locations, including supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores, mass merchandisers and specialty stores across North America. NAM also provides in-store merchandising services, including production and installation of
instant-redeemable coupons, on-pack stickers, shipper assembly, display set-up and refilling, shelf management and new product cut-ins.



•Mobile/Digital:NAM’s digital marketing solutions include SmartSource Digital, which encompasses secure printable couponing, load-to-card
couponing, targeted email campaigns and programmatic digital display, and the Checkout 51 mobile application, a leading receipt recognition app that enables packaged goods companies and brands to reach consumers with highly personalized marketing
campaigns.

NAM believes its programs have key advantages when compared to other marketing options available
to packaged goods companies, retailers and other marketers. NAM offers effective and targeted programs that reach a national audience of consumers who are actively seeking incentives or information at critical points along the path to purchase.

The Company’s News and Information Services products compete with a wide range of media businesses, including print
publications, digital media and information services.

The Company’s newspapers, magazines and digital publications
compete for readership and advertising with local and national newspapers, web and application-based media, social media sources and other media such as television, magazines, outdoor displays and radio. Competition for subscriptions and circulation
is







Dow Jones professional information products that target enterprise customers compete with various information
service providers, compliance data providers and global financial newswires, including Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg L.P., LexisNexis, as well as many other providers of news, information and compliance data.

NAM competes against other providers of advertising, marketing and merchandising products and services, including those that provide
promotional or advertising inserts, direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, providers of point-of-purchase and other in-store programs and providers of savings and/or grocery-focused digital applications, as well as other marketing
products and services. Competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, rate of coupon redemption, store coverage and other factors. The Company believes
that based on the scale of NAM’s home-delivered products, the reach of its in-store marketing products and the growing audience for its digital marketing platform, NAM provides broader consumer access than many of its competitors.

Book Publishing

The
Company’s Book Publishing segment consists of HarperCollins Publishers (together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, “HarperCollins”), the second largest consumer book publisher in the world based on global revenue, with operations
in 18 countries. HarperCollins publishes and distributes consumer books globally through print, digital and audio formats. Its digital formats include e-books for devices such as tablets and e-book readers, as well as audio downloads for smartphones
and MP3 players. HarperCollins owns more than 120 branded imprints, including Avon, Harper, HarperCollins Children’s Books, William Morrow, Harlequin and Christian publishers Zondervan and Thomas Nelson.

HarperCollins publishes works by well-known authors such as Harper Lee, Mitch Albom, Veronica Roth, Rick Warren, Sarah Young and Agatha
Christie and popular titles such asThe Hobbit,Goodnight Moon,To Kill a Mockingbird,Jesus Callingand theDivergentseries. Its print and digital global catalog includes more than 200,000 publications in
different formats, in 17 languages, and it licenses rights for its authors’ works to be published in more than 50 languages around the world. HarperCollins publishes fiction and nonfiction, with a focus on general, children’s and religious
content. Additionally, in the U.K., HarperCollins publishes titles for the equivalent of the K-12 educational market.

As of
June 30, 2016, HarperCollins offered approximately 100,000 publications in digital formats, and nearly all of HarperCollins’ new titles, as well as the majority of its entire catalog, are available as e-books. Digital sales, comprising
revenues generated through the sale of e-books as well as digital audio books,







represented approximately 19% of global consumer revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016. With the widespread adoption of electronic formats by consumers, HarperCollins is
publishing a number of titles in digital formats before, or instead of, publishing a print edition.

During fiscal 2016,
HarperCollins U.S. had 239 titles on theNew York Timesprint and digital bestseller lists, with 30 titles hitting number one, includingGo Set a Watchmanby Harper Lee,The Pioneer Woman Cooks: Dinnertimeby Ree Drummond,
The English Spyby Daniel Silva, The Glass Swordby Victoria Aveyard andPaxby Sara Pennypacker.

HarperCollins derives its revenue from the sale of print and digital books to a customer base that includes global technology companies,
traditional brick and mortar booksellers, wholesale clubs and discount stores, including Amazon, Apple, Barnes & Noble and Tesco. Revenues at the Book Publishing segment are significantly affected by the timing of releases and the number of
HarperCollins’ books in the marketplace, and are typically highest during the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to increased demand during the end-of-year holiday season in its main operating geographies.

The book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that is quickly changing and continues to see technological
innovations. HarperCollins competes with other large publishers, such as Penguin Random House, Simon & Schuster and Hachette Livre, as well as with numerous smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public
personalities; competition could also come from new entrants as barriers to entry in book publishing are low. In addition, HarperCollins competes for readership with other media formats and sources. The Company believes HarperCollins is well
positioned in the evolving book publishing market with significant size and brand recognition across multiple categories and geographies. Furthermore, HarperCollins is a leader in children’s and religious books, categories which have been less
impacted by the transition to digital consumption.

Digital Real Estate Services

The Company’s Digital Real Estate Services segment consists primarily of its 61.6% interest in REA Group Limited (“REA
Group”), a publicly-traded company listed on ASX (ASX: REA), and its 80% interest in Move, Inc. (“Move”). The remaining 20% interest in Move is held by REA Group. This segment also includes DIAKRIT International Limited
(“DIAKRIT”), a digital visualization solutions company that enables homeowners to see the potential in their future living environment while also helping agents and developers generate more buyer inquiries and accelerate their property
sales processes.

REA Group

REA Group advertises property and property-related services on websites and mobile applications across Australia, Europe and Asia. REA Group’s Australian operations include realestate.com.au and
realcommercial.com.au, Australia’s leading residential and commercial property websites, as well as its media and property-related services businesses, serving the display media market and markets adjacent to property, respectively.
Realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au together had approximately 45 million average monthly visits for the year ended June 30, 2016 according to Nielsen Online Market Intelligence Home and Fashion Suite. Realestate.com.au and
realcommercial.com.au also recorded an increase of 81% in average monthly application visits for the same period as compared to the prior year according to Adobe Analytics. Realestate.com.au derives the majority of its revenue from its core property
advertising listing products and monthly advertising subscriptions from real estate agents and property developers. Realestate.com.au offers a product hierarchy which enables real estate agents and property developers to upgrade listing
advertisements to increase their prominence on the site, as well as a variety of targeted products, including media display advertising products. Realcommercial.com.au generates revenue through three main sources: agent subscriptions,







agent branding and listing products. The media business offers unique advertising opportunities on both realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au, as well as native advertisement placements.
Revenue from this business is generated primarily from agents and commercial developers, which benefit from being able to target REA Group’s substantial audience base.

REA Group’s international operations include property sites in Asia and Europe. In Asia, REA Group increased its interest in iProperty Group Limited (“iProperty”) to 86.9% in February 2016.
iProperty operates leading property sites throughout Southeast Asia, including Malaysia and Hong Kong, and prominent portals in Thailand, Singapore and Indonesia. The combined sites for iProperty had approximately 7.4 million average monthly visits
for the year ended June 30, 2016 according to Google Analytics. REA Group also operates a Chinese site, myfun.com, which supports REA Group’s businesses in other geographical markets by showcasing residential property listings to Chinese
buyers and investors, and delivers leads to agents. In Europe, REA Group operates sites in Italy (casa.it) and in Luxembourg and regions of France (atHome.lu, atHome.de, immoRegion.fr and atOffice.lu). Average monthly visits to the combined European
sites increased 15% for the year ended June 30, 2016 compared to the prior year according to Adobe Analytics.

REA Group
competes primarily with other property websites in its geographic markets, including domain.com.au in Australia.

Move

Move is a leading provider of online real estate services in the U.S. Move primarily operates
realtor.com®, a premier real estate information and services marketplace, under a perpetual agreement and
trademark license with the National Association of Realtors®(“NAR”). Through realtor.com®, consumers have access to over 100 million properties across the U.S., including the most complete collection of
homes and properties listed with Multiple Listing Services (“MLS”) and displayed for sale among the competing national online portals and an extensive database of “off-market” properties. Realtor.com®and its related mobile applications display approximately 98% of all MLS-listed, for-sale properties in the U.S.,
which are primarily sourced directly from relationships with MLSs across the country. Over 90% of its for-sale listings are updated at least every 15 minutes, on average, with the remaining listings updated daily. Realtor.com®’s substantial content advantage attracts a highly engaged consumer audience. Based on internal data,
realtor.com®and its mobile sites had 53 million average monthly unique users during the quarter ended
June 30, 2016. These users viewed an average of over 1.8 billion pages and spent an average of over 1.1 billion minutes on the realtor.com®website and mobile applications each month.

Realtor.com®generates the majority of its revenues through the
sale of listing advertisement products, including Connection for Co-Brokerage, ShowcaseSMListing Enhancements and Featured HomesSM, which allow real estate agents, brokers and franchises to enhance, prioritize and connect with consumers on for-sale property listings within the realtor.com®website and mobile applications. Listing advertisements are typically sold on a subscription basis. Realtor.com®also derives revenue from sales of non-listing advertisement, or Media, products to real estate, finance, insurance,
home improvement and other professionals that enable those professionals to connect with realtor.com®’s
highly engaged and valuable consumer audience. Media products include sponsorships, display advertisements, text links, directories, and Digital Advertising Package. Non-listing advertisement pricing models include cost per thousand, cost per click,
cost per unique user and subscription-based sponsorships of specific content areas or targeted geographies.

In addition to realtor.com®, Move also offers a number of
professional software and services products. These include the Top Producer®and TigerLead®productivity and lead management tools and services, which are tailored to real estate agents and sold on a
subscription basis, as well as the ListHubTMservice,
which syndicates for-sale listing information from MLSs and other reliable data sources, such as real estate brokerages,







and distributes that content to an array of web sites. Listing syndication pricing includes fixed- or variable-pricing models based on listing counts, while ListHubTM’s advanced reporting products are sold on a monthly
subscription basis.

Move competes primarily with other real estate websites focused on the U.S. real estate market, including
zillow.com and trulia.com.

Cable Network Programming

FOX SPORTS Australia competes primarily with ESPN, beIN SPORTS, the Free-To-Air (“FTA”)
channels and certain telecommunications companies in Australia.

Other

The Other segment includes the Company’s general corporate overhead expenses, corporate Strategy and Creative Group and costs related
to the U.K. Newspaper Matters. The Company’s corporate Strategy and Creative Group was formed to identify new products and services across the Company’s businesses to increase revenues and profitability and to target and assess potential
acquisitions and investments. Initiatives include the News Corp Global Exchange, the Company’s global programmatic advertising exchange that enables marketers to leverage the Company’s leading online and mobile products and first-party
data for real-time bidding, as well as the Company’s BallBall platform in Southeast Asia, which combines the Company’s rights to exclusive football highlight clips, expert coverage, commentary and analysis fromThe Times,The
Sunday TimesandThe Sun. As part of its ongoing role in assessing potential acquisitions and investments, the corporate Strategy and Creative Group also oversaw the Company’s acquisitions of Move, a leading provider of online real
estate services in the U.S., and Unruly, a leading global video advertising distribution platform, as well as its strategic digital investments in India, including Elara Technologies, which owns PropTiger.com.

Equity Investments

Foxtel

The Company and Telstra, an ASX-listed telecommunications company, each own 50% of Foxtel, the largest pay-TV provider
in Australia. Foxtel had more than 2.9 million subscribing households throughout Australia as of June 30, 2016 through cable, satellite and IP distribution.







Foxtel generates revenue
primarily through subscription revenue as well as advertising revenue. For the year ended June 30, 2016, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), Foxtel recorded revenues of $2.4 billion and earnings
before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, of $604 million. Management believes that EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of this business for the reasons set forth in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Segment Analysis” with respect to Segment EBITDA. In the year ended June 30, 2016, Foxtel’s average
broadcast residential recurring subscription revenue per user, or ARPU, was A$89 (US$65) per month (as calculated by Foxtel), and its annualized residential subscriber churn rate based on data for the year ended June 30, 2016 was 12.2% (as
calculated by Foxtel). In addition, Foxtel had $1.8 billion of indebtedness outstanding as of June 30, 2016 (excluding $676 million of shareholder loans due to Telstra and the Company), and paid distributions of $26 million to the
Company during the year ended June 30, 2016. The amount included for Foxtel in the Company’s Equity earnings of affiliates was $38 million for the year ended June 30, 2016.

The Company and Telstra each have the right to appoint one-half of the board of directors of Foxtel. In addition, the Company has the
right to appoint the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Foxtel, while Telstra has the right to terminate these officers.

Foxtel competes for audiences primarily with FTA TV operators in Australia, including the three major commercial FTA networks and two major government-funded FTA broadcasters, as well as other pay-TV
operators, IP television providers and subscription video-on-demand services such as Fetch TV, Netflix and Stan. Foxtel provides a 200-channel selection with premium and exclusive content and a wide array of digital and mobile features that are not
available to viewers on these alternative providers. Through innovations such as digital HD channels, the extension of pay-TV programming to mobile devices, the use of DVR and Electronic Program Guide technology, including the iQ3 set-top box, its
investment in On Demand capability and programming and benefits through broadband bundling, the Company believes Foxtel offers subscribers a compelling alternative to its competitors.

Governmental Regulation

General

Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. The Company
believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and







regulations described herein. The introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement
of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the Company’s interests.

Australian Media
Regulation

The Company’s subscription television interests are subject to Australia’s regulatory framework for
the broadcasting industry. The key regulatory body for the Australian broadcasting industry is the Australian Communications and Media Authority.

Key regulatory issues for subscription television providers include: (a) anti-siphoning restrictions—currently under the ‘anti-siphoning’ provisions of the Australian Broadcasting
Services Act 1992 (Cth), subscription television providers are prevented from acquiring rights to televise certain listed events (for example, the Olympic Games and certain Australian Rules football and cricket matches) unless national and
commercial television broadcasters have not obtained these rights 12 weeks before the start of the event or the rights to televise are also held by commercial television licensees who have rights to televise the event to more than 50% of the
Australian population or the rights to televise are also held by one of Australia’s two major government-funded broadcasters; and (b) the Broadcasting Services Act also may impact the Company’s ownership structure and operations and
restrict its ability to take advantage of acquisition or investment opportunities including, for example, preventing it from exercising control of a commercial television broadcasting license, a commercial radio license and a newspaper in the same
license area.

Data Privacy and Security

Our business activities are subject to laws and regulations governing the collection, use, sharing, protection and retention of personal data, which continue to evolve and have implications for how such
data is managed. For example, in the U.S., certain of the Company’s websites, mobile applications and other online business activities are subject to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, which prohibits websites from
collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) continues to expand its application of general consumer protection laws
to commercial data practices, including to the use of personal and profiling data from online users to deliver targeted Internet advertisements. Most states have also enacted legislation regulating data privacy and security, including laws requiring
businesses to provide notice to state agencies and to individuals whose personally identifiable information has been disclosed as a result of a data breach.







In response to such developments, industry participants in the U.S., Europe and Australia
have taken steps to increase compliance with relevant industry-level standards and practices, including the implementation of self-regulatory regimes for online behavioral advertising that impose obligations on participating companies, such as the
Company, to give consumers a better understanding of advertisements that are customized based on their online behavior. The Company continues to monitor pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and
develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments, including any changes required in the Company’s data privacy and security compliance programs.

U.K. Press Regulation

As a result of the implementation of recommendations
of the Leveson inquiry into the U.K. press, which was established by Prime Minister David Cameron in mid-2011, a Royal Charter on Self-Regulation of the Press was granted in 2013, which established a Recognition Panel responsible for approving,
overseeing and monitoring a new press regulatory body or bodies. Once approved by the Recognition Panel, the new press regulatory body or bodies would be responsible for overseeing participating publishers. No such regulator has yet been approved by
the Recognition Panel, although it is currently considering an application by a newly-formed independent body, IMPRESS. In addition to the Royal Charter and establishment of the new Recognition Panel, legislation has been passed that provides that
publishers who do not participate in this new U.K. press regulatory system may be liable for exemplary damages in certain cases where such damages are not currently awarded.

In late 2013, publications representing the majority of the industry in the U.K., including News UK, entered into binding contracts to form an alternative new regulator instead, which is referred to as
the Independent Press Standards Organisation, or IPSO. IPSO, which began operating in September 2014, currently has no plans to apply for recognition from the Recognition Panel. IPSO has an independent chairman and a 12-member board, the majority of
which are independent. IPSO oversees the Editors’ Code of Practice, requires members to implement appropriate internal governance processes and requires self-reporting of any failures, provides a complaints handling service, has the ability to
require publications to print corrections and has the power to investigate serious or systemic breaches of the Editors’ Code and levy fines of up to £1 million. IPSO is also considering the introduction of an arbitration scheme to resolve
claims against publications. IPSO imposes burdens on the print media, including the Company’s newspaper businesses in the U.K., which may result in competitive disadvantages versus other forms of media and may increase the costs of compliance

Intellectual Property

The Company’s intellectual property assets include: copyrights in newspapers, books, television programming and other content and technologies; trademarks in names and logos; trade names; domain
names; and licenses of intellectual property rights. In addition, its intellectual property assets include patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services, none of which are material to its
financial condition or results of operations. The Company derives value and revenue from these assets through, among other things, print and digital newspaper and magazine subscriptions and sales, the sale, distribution and/or licensing of print and
digital books, the sale of subscriptions to its content and information services, the operation of websites and other digital properties and the distribution and/or licensing of its television programming to cable and satellite television services.

The Company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property assets in the U.S., the U.K., Australia and
other foreign territories. To protect these assets, the Company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other laws and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to
which these measures will be successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products, services and content and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the
infringement by unauthorized third parties of the Company’s intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit such threat through a combination of approaches, including pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate
legislative initiatives and







international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. Piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to
present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property.

Third parties may challenge the
validity or scope of the Company’s intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs
and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Therefore, the Company engages
in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement.

Raw Materials

As a
major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the Company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. In order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the Company’s paper purchasing
is done on a regional, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. The Company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate.

Employees

As of June 30, 2016, the Company had approximately 24,000 employees, of whom approximately 9,000 were located in the U.S., 4,000 were
located in the U.K. and 8,000 were located in Australia. Of the Company’s employees, approximately 5,000 were represented by various employee unions. The contracts with such unions will expire during various times over the next several years.
The Company believes its current relationships with employees are generally good.



