ITEM 1.BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

The Separation

The Company

News Corp is a global diversified media and information services company focused on creating and distributing authoritative and engaging content to consumers and businesses throughout the world. The
Company comprises businesses across a range of media, including: news and information services, cable network programming in Australia, digital real estate services, book publishing, digital education and pay-TV distribution in Australia, that are
distributed under some of the world’s most recognizable and respected brands, includingThe Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones,The Australian,Herald Sun,The Sun,The Times,HarperCollins Publishers, FOX SPORTS
Australia, realestate.com.au, Foxtel and many others. The Company’s commitment to premium content makes its properties a trusted source of news and information and a premier destination for consumers across various media. Many of these
properties deliver broad reach and high audience engagement levels in their respective markets, making them attractive advertising vehicles for the Company’s advertising customers.

The Company delivers its premium content to consumers across numerous distribution platforms consisting not only of traditional print and
television, but also through an expanding array of digital platforms including websites, applications for mobile devices and tablets and electronic readers. The Company is focused on pursuing integrated strategies across its businesses to continue
to capitalize on the transition from print to digital consumption of high-quality content. The Company believes that the increasing availability of high-speed Internet access, connected mobile devices, tablets and electronic readers will allow it to
continue to deliver its content in a more engaging, timely and personalized manner, provide opportunities to more effectively monetize its content via strong customer relationships and more compelling and engaging advertising solutions and reduce
its physical production and distribution costs as it continues to shift to digital platforms.

The Company’s diversified
revenue base consists of recurring subscriptions, circulation copies, licensing fees, affiliate fees and direct sales, as well as the sale of advertising and sponsorships. The Company manages its businesses to take advantage of opportunities to
share technologies and practices across geographies and businesses and bundle selected offerings to provide greater value to consumers and advertising partners.







Headquartered in New York, the Company operates primarily in the United States, Australia and the U.K., and its content is distributed and consumed worldwide. The Company’s operations are
organized into six reporting segments: (i) News and Information Services; (ii) Cable Network Programming; (iii) Digital Real Estate Services; (iv) Book Publishing; (v) Digital Education and (vi) Other, which includes
the Company’s general corporate overhead expenses, corporate Strategy and Creative Group and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters, as defined in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” The Company also owns a 50% stake in Foxtel, the largest
pay-TV provider in Australia, which is accounted for as an equity investment.

The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year
ending on the Sunday nearest to June 30 in each year. All references to June 30, 2014, June 30, 2013 and June 30, 2012 relate to the 12-month periods ended June 29, 2014, June 30, 2013 and July 1, 2012,
respectively. For convenience purposes, the Company continues to date its financial statements as of June 30. The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, and its telephone
number is (212) 416-3400. More information regarding the Company is available on its website atwww.newscorp.com, including the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after
the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

Special Note Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements







BUSINESS OVERVIEW

The Company’s six reporting segments are described below. In addition, the Company owns a 50% stake in Foxtel, which is accounted for as an equity investment. For financial information regarding the
Company’s segments and operations in geographic areas, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements.



For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014RevenuesSegmentEBITDA(in millions)News and Information Services$6,153$665Cable Network Programming491128Digital Real Estate Services408214Book Publishing1,434197Digital Education(a)88(193)Other—(241)Total$8,574$770



(a)In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, the Company revised the composition of its reporting segments to present the digital education business as a
separate segment. All prior periods have been reclassified to reflect the revised segment presentation.

News and
Information Services

The Company’s News and Information Services segment consists of Dow Jones, News Corp Australia
(which includes News Limited and its subsidiaries), News UK (formerly known as News International), theNew York Postand News America Marketing. This segment also includes Storyful Limited (“Storyful”), a social media news
agency that was acquired by the Company in December 2013 and complements the existing video capabilities in this segment. The News and Information Services segment generates revenue primarily through print and digital advertising sales and through
circulation and subscriptions to its print and digital products. Advertising revenues at the News and Information Services segment are subject to seasonality, with revenues typically being highest in the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to
the end-of-year holiday season in its main operating geographies.

Dow Jones

Dow Jones is a global provider of news and business information, which distributes its content and data through a variety of media
channels including newspapers, newswires, websites, applications for mobile devices and tablets, electronic readers, newsletters, magazines, proprietary databases, conferences, radio and video. Dow Jones’s products, which target individual
consumer and enterprise customers, includeThe Wall Street Journal, Factiva, Dow Jones Risk & Compliance, Dow Jones Newswires,Barron’s, MarketWatch, Dow Jones Private Markets and DJX. Dow Jones’s revenue is
diversified across business-to-consumer and business-to-business subscriptions, circulation, advertising and licensing fees for its print and digital products.

Through its premier brands and authoritative journalism, Dow Jones’s products targeting individual consumers provide insights, research and understanding that enable customers to stay informed and
make educated financial decisions. With a focus on the financial markets, investing and other professional services, many of these products offer advertisers an attractive customer demographic. Products targeting consumers include the following:



•The Wall Street Journal (WSJ).The Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones’s flagship product, is available in print, online and across
multiple mobile, tablet and electronic reader devices. WSJ covers national and







international news and provides analysis, commentary and opinions on a wide range of topics, including business developments and trends, economics, financial markets, investing, science and
technology, lifestyle, culture and sports.The Wall Street Journalhad a total average paid print and digital circulation of 2,294,093 Monday to Friday (2,321,996 Weekend) for the six months ended March 31, 2014 based on Alliance for
Audited Media (“AAM”) data, and is the leading paid circulation daily newspaper in the U.S. WSJ is printed at plants located around the U.S., including eight owned by the Company. WSJ sells regional advertising in three major U.S. regional
editions (Eastern, Central and Western) and 21 smaller sub-regional editions. WSJ.com, which offers both free and premium content, averaged over 70 million visits per month for the 12 months ended June 30, 2014 according to Adobe Omniture,
and includes local language content in Chinese, Japanese, German, Spanish, Portuguese, Bahasa, Turkish and Korean. Print and digital products under the WSJ brand include:

Print:The Wall Street Journal(including its Asia and Europe editions), The Wall Street Journal Sunday, WSJ.MagazineandWSJ.Moneymagazine.

Digital: WSJ.com (includesRisk & Compliance Journal,CIO
Journal, CFO JournalandCMO Journal) and WSJ.com international sites: Asia.WSJ.com, Europe.WSJ.com, WSJ.de (Germany), cn.WSJ.com (China), jp.WSJ.com (Japan), kr.wsj.com (Korea), indo.wsj.com (Indonesia), india.wsj.com, wsj.com.tr
(Turkey) and Latin American and Brazil local language content available through WSJ.com. In January 2014, Dow Jones introduced WSJ.D, WSJ’s new home for technology news, analysis, commentary, daily buzz and consumer product reviews.

WSJ Video: WSJ video provides live and on-demand news online through WSJ.com and other platforms, including YouTube,
Internet-connected TV and set-top boxes.



•Barron’s.Barron’s,whichis available in print, online and on multiple mobile, tablet and electronic reader devices,
delivers news, analysis, investigative reporting, company profiles and insightful statistics for investors and others interested in the investment world. Print and digital products under theBarron’s brand include:

Print:Barron’s(weekly magazine with an average paid weekly circulation of 302,155 for
the six months ended June 30, 2014 based on AAM data).

Digital:Barrons.com (offers both free and premium content
providing in-depth analysis and commentary on the markets, updated every business day, along with alerts and tools) andBarron’stablet applications (paid applications which substantially replicate the website). Barrons.com had over
190,000 paid subscribers on average for the year ended June 30, 2014 based on internal sources.



•Marketwatch.com.Marketwatch.com is an investing and financial news website targeting active investors. It also provides real-time commentary
and investment tools and data. Products include mobile and tablet applications, a mobile site, MarketWatch Premium Newsletter (paid newsletter on a variety of investing topics), Big Charts (free investment charting website) and Virtual Stock
Exchange (free stock simulation game through the website). Marketwatch.com averaged more than 41 million visits per month for the 12 months ended June 30, 2014 according to Adobe Omniture.



•The Wall Street Journal Digital Network (WSJDN). WSJDN offers advertisers the opportunity to reach Dow Jones’s audience across a number of
brands and digital platforms, including the WSJ.com, Barrons.com and Marketwatch.com websites and mobile applications and related services. WSJDN had more than 1.3 million paid subscribers on average for the year ended June 30, 2014 and,
during that same period, averaged more than 133 million visits per month, with more than 500 million page views per month, according to Adobe Omniture.

Dow Jones’s professional information products, which target enterprise customers, combine news and information with technology and
tools that inform decisions and aid awareness, research and understanding. These products are designed to be integral to the success of Dow Jones’s enterprise customers, and Dow Jones







expects to sustain strong retention rates by providing high levels of service and continued innovation through news, data and tools that meet its customers’ specific needs. These products
include the following:



•Factiva.Factiva is a leading provider of global business content, built on an archive of important, original publishing sources. This
combination of business news and information, plus sophisticated tools, helps professionals find, monitor, interpret and share essential information. As of June 30, 2014, there were approximately 1.1 million activated Factiva users,
including both institutional and individual accounts. Many of the institutional accounts have multiple individual users. Factiva offers content from over 32,000 global news and information sources from nearly 200 countries and in 28 languages.
Thousands of Factiva’s sources are not available for free on the Internet and more than 4,000 sources make information available via Factiva on or before the date of publication by the source. Factiva leverages complex metadata extraction and
text-mining to help its customers build precise searches and alerts to access and monitor this data.



•Risk & Compliance.Dow Jones Risk & Compliance products provide data solutions for customers focused on anti-corruption,
anti-money laundering, monitoring embargo and sanction lists and other compliance requirements. Dow Jones’s solutions allow customers to filter their business transactions against its data to identify regulatory, corporate and reputational
risk, and request follow-up due diligence reports. Products include online risk data and negative news searching tools such as Risk Database Search/Research/Premium and the Risk & Compliance Portal for batch screening. Feed services include
Dow Jones Watchlist, Dow Jones Anti-Corruption, Dow Jones Sanction Alert and Adverse Media Entities. In addition, Dow Jones produces customized Due Diligence Reports to assist its clients with regulatory compliance.



•Dow Jones Newswires.Dow Jones Newswires distributes real-time business news, information, analysis, commentary and statistical data to
financial professionals and investors worldwide. It publishes, on average, over 16,000 news items in 13 languages each day, which are distributed via terminals, trading platforms and websites reaching hundreds of thousands of financial
professionals. This content also reaches millions of individual investors via customer portals and the intranets of brokerage and trading firms, as well as digital media publishers.



•Private Markets.Dow Jones Private Markets products provide news and deal data on venture capital and private equity- backed private companies
and their investors to help venture capital and private equity professionals, financial services professionals and other service providers identify deal and partnership opportunities, perform due diligence and examine trends in venture capital and
private equity investment, fund-raising and liquidity. Products include VentureSource, LP Source, VentureWire, Private Equity Analyst, LBO Wire, Private Equity News, Daily Bankruptcy Review (“DBR”), DBR Small Cap and DBR High Yield.



•DJX. DJX is comprised of a bundle of underlying products, including Factiva, Dow Jones Newswires, certain Private Markets products, including
Venture Source and LP Source, certain Risk & Compliance products, WSJ.com and Barrons.com.

News Corp
Australia

News Corp Australia is one of the leading news and information providers in Australia by readership and
circulation, owning over 120 newspapers covering a national, regional and suburban footprint. As of March 31, 2014, its daily, Sunday, weekly and bi-weekly newspapers accounted for more than 59% of the total circulation of newspapers in
Australia, and during the year ended March 31, 2014, its Sunday newspaper network was read by approximately 4.7 million Australians on average every week. In addition, its digital mastheads and other websites are among the leading digital
news properties in Australia based on monthly unique audience data. News Corp Australia’s news portfolio includes:



•The AustralianandThe Weekend Australian(National).The Australianis published Monday through Friday, andThe Weekend
Australianis published on Saturday. Based on Audit Bureau of Circulations (“ABC”) data, average daily paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2014 was







approximately 114,000 forThe Australianand 246,000 forThe Weekend Australian. In addition,The AustralianandThe Weekend Australianhad a total unduplicated print
and digital audience of over 3.2 million for the month of March 2014 based on average monthly Enhanced Media Metrics Australia (“EMMA”) combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended March 31, 2014 and total
unique website audience in March 2014 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings. The Company believes EMMA data, which incorporates more frequent sampling and combines both online and print usage into a single metric, more accurately and
comprehensively reflects consumption of its publications.



•The Daily TelegraphandThe Sunday Telegraph(Sydney). The Daily Telegraphis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC
data, average daily paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2014 was approximately 291,000 forThe Daily Telegraphand 523,000 forThe Sunday Telegraph. In addition,The Daily TelegraphandThe Sunday
Telegraphhad a total unduplicated print and digital audience of over 4.3 million for the month of March 2014 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended March 31, 2014 and total
unique website audience in March 2014 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings.



•Herald SunandSunday Herald Sun(Melbourne).Herald Sunis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily
paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2014 was approximately 398,000 forHerald Sunand 465,000 forSunday Herald Sun. In addition,Herald SunandSunday Herald Sunhad a total unduplicated print and
digital audience of almost 4.2 million for the month of March 2014 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended March 31, 2014 and total unique website audience in March 2014 according to
Nielsen monthly total audience ratings.



•The Courier MailandThe Sunday Mail(Brisbane).The Courier Mailis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average
daily paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2014 was approximately 177,000 forThe Courier Mailand 406,000 forThe Sunday Mail. In addition,The Courier MailandThe Sunday Mailhad a total
unduplicated print and digital audience of almost 3.2 million for the month of March 2014 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended March 31, 2014 and total unique website audience in
March 2014 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings.



•The AdvertiserandSunday Mail(Adelaide).The Advertiseris published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily
paid print circulation for the year ended March 31, 2014 was approximately 159,000 forThe Advertiserand 239,000 forSunday Mail. In addition,The AdvertiserandSunday Mailhad a total unduplicated print and
digital audience of 1.7 million for the month of March 2014 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended March 31, 2014 and total unique website audience in March 2014 according to
Nielsen monthly total audience ratings.



•A large number of community newspapers in all major capital cities, as well as leading regional publications in Cairns, Gold Coast, Townsville and
Geelong and in the other capital cities of Perth, Hobart and Darwin.



•News Corp Australia has launched paid-for digital platforms forHerald Sun,Sunday Herald Sun,The Daily Telegraph,The Sunday
Telegraph,The Courier Mail,The Sunday Mail,The AdvertiserandSunday Mail.

News Corp Australia’s broad portfolio of digital properties also includes news.com.au, a leading general interest site in Australia
that provides breaking news, finance, entertainment, lifestyle, technology and sports news and delivers an average monthly unique audience of approximately 3.2 million based on Nielsen monthly total audience ratings for the year ended
June 30, 2014. In addition, News Corp Australia owns other premier properties such as taste.com.au, a leading food and recipe site, and kidspot.com.au, a leading parenting website, as well as various other digital media assets, including a 50%
stake in CareerOne.com.au (a joint venture with







Monster.com), a 50% stake in carsguide.com.au (a joint venture with a consortium of leading car dealers), an 89.5% stake in FOX SPORTS Pulse (which supplies a scheduling tool for sports
organizations), and 100% ofBusiness SpectatorandEureka Report(online business and investment news and commentary services).

News UK

News UK
publishesThe Sun,The Sun on Sunday,The TimesandThe Sunday Times,which are leading newspapers in the U.K.As of June 30, 2014, sales of these four titles accounted for approximately one-third of all
national newspaper sales in the U.K. News UK’s newspapers (except some Saturday and Sunday supplements) are printed at News UK’s world-class printing facilities in England, Scotland and Ireland. In addition to revenue from the sale of
advertising, circulation and subscriptions to its print and digital products, News UK generates revenue by providing third party printing services through these facilities and is one of the largest contract printers in the U.K. News UK also
distributes content through its digital platforms, including its websites, thesun.co.uk, thetimes.co.uk and thesundaytimes.co.uk, as well as mobile and tablet applications. News UK continues to enhance its online and mobile offerings, including
through its recent acquisition of the rights to show English Premiership Rugby Union, English Cricket, Gaelic Athletic Association games and UEFA Champions League match clips across its digital platforms. News UK’s portfolio includes:



•The Sun.Published Monday through Saturday and on Sunday since February 2012. Based on National Readership Survey data for the six months
ended March 31, 2014,The Sunis the most read national newspaper in the U.K., with an average issue readership of approximately 5,453,000 Monday through Saturday forThe Sunand 4,828,000 forThe Sunon Sunday.
Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2014 based on ABC data was approximately 2,083,000 forThe Sunand 1,703,000 forThe Sunon Sunday.



In August 2013, News UK launchedThe Sun’snew digital bundle, which delivers exclusive digital entertainment, including Barclay’s Premier League match
clips and Sun+ perks, a collection of perks, downloads, offers and competitions.The Sunis the first tabloid newspaper to be fully paid-for across every platform.



•The Times.Published Monday through Saturday with an average issue readership of approximately 1,116,000 for the six months ended March 31,
2014 based on National Readership Survey data. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2014 based on ABC data was approximately 391,000. As of June 30, 2014,The Timeshad approximately 162,000 paid
print subscribers and 156,000 paid digital subscribers based on internal sources. News UK also publishesThe Times Literary Supplement, a weekly literary review.



•The Sunday Times.Leading broadsheet Sunday newspaper in the U.K. with an average issue readership of approximately 2,249,000 for the six
months ended March 31, 2014 based on National Readership Survey data. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2014 based on ABC data was approximately 829,000. As of June 30, 2014,The Sunday
Timeshad approximately 207,000 paid print subscribers and 157,000 paid digital subscribers based on internal sources.

In addition, News UK has also assembled a portfolio of complementary ancillary product offerings, including Sun Bingo, as well as newer products such as Sunmotors.co.uk, a digital classified offering,
Times Wealth Management, which offers readers investment advice, and The Handpicked Collection, a recently acquired luxury shopping website.

New York Post

TheNew York Post(the “Post”) is the oldest continuously published daily newspaper in the U.S., with a focus on
coverage of the New York metropolitan area. The print version of thePostis primarily distributed in New York and throughout the Northeast, as well as Florida and California. ThePostprovides a variety of general interest
content ranging from breaking news to business analysis, and is known in particular for its







comprehensive sports coverage, famous headlines and its iconic Page Six section, an authority on celebrity news. ThePost’s digital platforms feature all the sections of the
print version as well as continually updated breaking news and other content and extend the reach of thePostto a national audience. For the six months ended March 31, 2014, average weekday circulation based on AAM data, including
digital editions, was 477,314. ThePostis printed in a printing facility in the Bronx, New York and uses third party printers in its other markets in the U.S.

News America Marketing

News America Marketing (“NAM”) is
a leading provider of coupon promotions, advertising programs, special offers and other direct consumer marketing solutions through a network of more than 1,800 publications, 58,000 retail stores and 450 partner sites, including SmartSource.com. NAM
offers direct consumer marketing solutions for companies that include consumer packaged goods manufacturers, financial services, pharmaceutical manufacturers, quick-service and casual restaurants, retailers and other marketers in the U.S. and
Canada. NAM has developed broad, long-standing relationships with many well-known retailers and brands, including Procter & Gamble, General Mills, Kraft, Johnson & Johnson, Walmart, Kroger, American Express, Target and Loblaws.

NAM’s marketing solutions are available via multiple distribution channels, including publications, in stores and
online, primarily under the SmartSource brand name. NAM provides customers with “one-stop shopping” for their direct-to-consumer marketing needs through its three primary business areas:



•Free-Standing Inserts:Free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which
are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local Sunday publications. NAM is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the U.S. Advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay NAM to produce free-standing
inserts where their offers are featured, often on an exclusive basis within their product category. NAM contracts with and pays publishers as well as printers, among others, to produce and/or distribute free-standing inserts in their papers.
NAM’s free-standing insert products, which are distributed under the SmartSource Magazine®brand, have a
circulation of almost 74 million based on internal sources and are distributed 43 times a year.



•In-Store Advertising and Merchandising: NAM is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged
goods manufacturers. NAM’s marketing products include: at-shelf advertising such as coupon, information and sample-dispensing machines, as well as floor and shopping cart advertising, among others, and are found in approximately 58,000
supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores, mass merchandisers and specialty stores across North America. NAM also provides in-store merchandising services, including production and installation of instant-redeemable coupons,
on-pack stickers, shipper assembly, display set-up and refilling, shelf management and new product cut-ins.



•SmartSource Digital:SmartSource Digital manages NAM’s portfolio of database and electronic marketing solutions. The database marketing
business, branded SmartSource Direct, provides direct-mail solutions via access to a national network of retailer frequent-shopper card databases offering information on the purchase behavior of millions of cardholders. The SmartSource Savings
Network, which includes SmartSource.com, encompasses all of NAM’s electronic couponing and sampling solutions accessed through the web, mobile and tablet-based programming.

NAM believes its programs have key advantages when compared to other marketing options available to packaged goods companies, retailers
and other marketers. NAM offers cost-effective programs that reach a national audience of engaged consumers who are actively seeking coupons or discounts and who are at a critical moment in their purchase decision. By delivering an immediate
incentive or brand message to shoppers as they are making brand decisions, NAM believes free-standing inserts and in-store advertising have an advantage over competing forms of mass media such as radio or television.







The Company’s News and Information Services products compete with a wide range of media
businesses, including print publications, digital media and information services.

Dow Jones professional information products that target enterprise customers compete with various
information service providers and global financial newswires, including Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg L.P., LexisNexis, as well as many other Internet-based providers of news and information.

NAM competes against other providers of advertising, marketing and merchandising products and services, including those that provide
promotional or advertising inserts, direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, providers of point-of-purchase and other in-store programs and providers of savings and/or grocery-focused digital applications, as well as other media
platforms such as television, magazines, outdoor displays and radio. Competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, rate of coupon redemption, store
coverage and other factors. The Company believes that based on the circulation of its free-standing inserts, the reach of its in-store marketing products and the audience for its online programs, NAM provides broader consumer access than many of its
competitors.

Cable Network Programming

The Company’s Cable Network Programming segment consists of FOX SPORTS Australia, the leading sports programming provider in Australia based on total subscribers as of June 30, 2014. FOX SPORTS
Australia is focused on live national and international sports events and provides featured original and licensed premium sports content tailored to the Australian market, including live sports such as National Rugby League, the domestic football
league, English Premier League, international cricket, as well as the Rugby Union. FOX SPORTS Australia offers seven television channels distributed via cable, satellite and Internet Protocol, or IP, and several interactive viewing applications. Its
channels consist of FOX SPORTS 1, FOX SPORTS 2, FOX SPORTS 3, FOX FOOTY, FOX SPORTS NEWS, FUEL TV and SPEED that broadcast over 10,000 hours of live sports programming per year reaching FOXTEL, Telstra and Optus subscription
television customers. FOX SPORTS Australia’s access to compelling local and international sports programming, as well as its production of high-quality original sports content has made it the leading sports programming provider in Australia.
FOX SPORTS Australia also operates foxsports.com.au, a leading general sports website in Australia, and offers several interactive mobile and tablet applications that extend the reach of its content across multiple new







platforms. FOX SPORTS Australia is distributed via longstanding carriage agreements with pay-TV providers (mainly Foxtel) in Australia and generates revenue primarily through affiliate fees
payable under these carriage agreements, as well as advertising sales. Results at the Cable Network Programming segment can fluctuate due to the timing and mix of the Company’s local and international sports programming, as expenses associated
with licensing these programming rights are recognized during the applicable season or event.

FOX SPORTS Australia competes
primarily with ESPN, the Free-To-Air (“FTA”) channels and certain telecommunications companies in Australia.

Digital Real Estate
Services

The Company’s Digital Real Estate Services segment consists of its 61.6% interest in REA Group Limited
(“REA Group”), a publicly-traded company on ASX (ASX: REA) that is a leading digital advertising business specializing in real estate services. Established in Melbourne in 1995, REA Group owns and operates Australia’s largest
residential property website, realestate.com.au, and Australia’s largest commercial property site, realcommercial.com.au. Together, realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au have approximately 23.0 million desktop site visits and
7.2 million mobile site visits on average each month based on Nielsen monthly total traffic ratings for the year ended June 30, 2014, as well as approximately 10.5 million mobile application visits on average each month based on Adobe
Omniture SiteCatalyst monthly site visits for the same period. REA Group also operates a market-leading Italian property site, casa.it, and other property sites and apps in Europe and Asia, and its portfolio of property sites is used by
approximately 21,700 real estate agents.

REA Group’s Australian operations are comprised primarily of realestate.com.au,
realcommercial.com.au and its media business, which services the display media market. Realestate.com.au derives the majority of its revenue via residential monthly advertising subscriptions and advertising listing upgrades from real estate offices.
Agents subscribing to the website may upload unlimited listings for sale or rent and purchase a selection of upgrade products to increase the prominence of their listings on the site. Additionally, realestate.com.au offers a variety of targeted
products, including brand-building services for real estate agents. Realcommercial.com.au generates revenue through three main sources, agent subscription revenue, agent branding revenue and listing revenue. The media business offers unique
advertising opportunities on both realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au, as well as via mobile advertisement placements. Revenue from this business is generated primarily from agents, commercial developers and financial institutions, which
benefit from being able to target REA Group’s substantial audience base.

REA Group’s other operations include
property sites in Italy and Asia, as well as Luxembourg and France. Casa.it, with approximately 9.0 million visits on average each month based on Adobe Omniture SiteCatalyst monthly site visits for the year ended June 30, 2014, is
Italy’s leading residential property site. In Asia, REA Group operates Squarefoot.com.hk, REA Group’s English and Chinese language property site in Hong Kong, as well as myfun.com, its recently-launched Chinese website, which extends the
audience of property seekers for realestate.com.au’s Australian property listings by allowing them to be seen by Chinese consumers. Squarefoot.com.hk and myfun.com together have approximately 0.5 million visits on average each month based
on Adobe Omniture SiteCatalyst monthly site visits for the year ended June 30, 2014. REA Group’s sites in Luxembourg and France include AtHome.lu, atOffice.lu, atHome.de and immoRegion.fr. These sites have approximately 0.9 million
visits combined on average each month based on Adobe Omniture SiteCatalyst monthly site visits for the year ended June 30, 2014. REA Group’s other assets include its 17.22% interest in iProperty Group Limited, an online property portal
with operations in Malaysia, Indonesia, Hong Kong, Macau and Singapore, which it acquired in July 2014.

REA Group competes
primarily with other real estate websites in its geographic markets, including domain.com.au in Australia.







Book Publishing

The Company’s Book Publishing segment consists of HarperCollins Publishers (together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, “HarperCollins”), one of the largest English-language consumer
publishers in the world based on global revenue, with operations in the U.S., the U.K., Canada, Australia, New Zealand and India. HarperCollins publishes and distributes consumer books globally through print, digital and audio formats. Its digital
formats include electronic books, also referred to as e-books, for devices such as the Apple iPad, Amazon’s Kindle, Google’s Nexus and Barnes & Noble’s NOOK as well as audio downloads for smartphones and MP3 players.
HarperCollins owns over 60 branded imprints, including Avon, Harper, HarperCollins Children’s Publishers, William Morrow and Christian publishers Zondervan and Thomas Nelson, which HarperCollins acquired in July 2012. In addition, in August
2014, HarperCollins acquired Harlequin Enterprises Limited, a leading publisher of women’s fiction, from Torstar Corporation, extending its global platform, particularly in Europe and Asia Pacific.

HarperCollins publishes works by well-known authors such as Mitch Albom, Veronica Roth, Rick Warren and Agatha Christie and popular
titles such asThe Hobbit,Goodnight Moon,To Kill a Mockingbirdand theDivergentseries. Its active print and digital global catalog includes approximately 50,000 publications and over 100,000 SKUs, including various
print and digital editions of the same title. HarperCollins publishes fiction and nonfiction, with a focus on general, children’s and religious content. Additionally, in the U.K., HarperCollins publishes titles for the equivalent of the K-12
educational market.

HarperCollins is rapidly transitioning from print production to digital with leading e-book offerings. As
of June 30, 2014, HarperCollins offered approximately 35,000 e-book titles, which accounted for approximately 22% of global consumer revenues in the quarter (up from approximately 19% in the prior year period). Nearly all of HarperCollins’
titles published in the last five years, as well as the majority of its entire catalog, are available in electronic reader and tablet formats. With the rapid adoption of electronic formats by consumers, HarperCollins is publishing many titles in
digital formats before, or instead of, publishing a print edition. For example, through its popular romance imprint, Avon, HarperCollins launched a “digital-first” series which releases at least one new title per week in the romance
category. The series has already generated nineNew York Timeselectronic bestsellers since its launch.

During fiscal
2014, HarperCollins U.S. had 158 titles on theNew York Timesbestseller list, with 17 titles hitting number one, includingDivergent (series)by Veronica Roth,The 100by Jorge Cruise,Heaven is For Realby Todd Burpo
with Lynn Vincent,The Body Bookby Cameron Diaz with Sandra Bark,The First Phone Call from Heavenby Mitch Albom,The Ocean at the End of the Laneby Neil Gaiman,The Pioneer Woman Cooks: A Year of Holidaysby Ree
Drummond,10 % Happierby Dan Harris,The English Girlby Daniel Silva,Eat to Live Cookbookby Joel Fuhrman,The Undead Poolby Kim Harrison,Orphan Trainby Christina Baker Kline,The Daniel Planby
Rick Warren, Daniel Amen, & Mark Hyman,Pete the Cat: The Wheels on the Busby James Dean,Pete the Cat and his Magic Sunglassesby Kimberly & James Dean, andThe Selectionby Kiera Cass.

HarperCollins derives its revenue from the sale of print and digital books to a customer base that includes global technology companies,
traditional brick and mortar booksellers, wholesale clubs and discount stores, including Amazon, Apple, Barnes & Noble and Tesco. As HarperCollins’ digital products continue to account for more of its business, it expects to benefit
from increased profit contribution and improved working capital dynamics due to diminishing physical plant requirements, inventory and returns related to its print business, as well as faster payment for e-books. Revenues at the Book Publishing
segment are significantly affected by the timing of releases and the number of HarperCollins’ books in the marketplace, and are typically highest during the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to increased demand during the end-of-year
holiday season in its main operating geographies.

The book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that
is quickly changing and continues to see technological innovations, including e-book devices sold by Amazon, Apple, Google and Barnes & Noble. HarperCollins competes with other large publishers, such as Penguin Random House,
Simon & Schuster and







Hachette Livre, as well as with numerous smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities; competition could also come from new entrants, since barriers
to entry in book publishing are low. In addition, HarperCollins competes for readership with other media formats and sources. The Company believes HarperCollins is well positioned in the evolving book publishing market with significant size and
brand recognition across multiple categories and geographies and as an early adopter of the digital model, where it is an industry leader with approximately 35,000 e-book titles. Furthermore, HarperCollins is a leader in children’s and
religious books, categories which have been less impacted by the transition to digital consumption.

Digital Education

The Company’s Digital Education segment consists of Amplify, the brand for its digital education business, which it launched in July
2012. Amplify is focused on improving K-12 education by creating digital products and services that empower teachers, students and parents in new ways. Its products serve more than three million students in all 50 states. Amplify is dedicated to
creating technology solutions that transform the way teachers teach and students learn in three areas:



•Amplify Insight:Amplify’s data and assessment business, which formerly operated under the brand Wireless Generation, commenced operations
in 2000 and was acquired in fiscal 2011. Amplify Insight provides powerful assessment products and services to support teachers and school districts, including student assessment tools and analytic technologies, intervention programs, enterprise
education information systems, and professional development and consulting services. Key products includemClassTM, a suite of products that enable teachers
to easily and quickly monitor individual and class progression through goals and standards and access detailed analysis, custom grouping and instructional planning tools.



•Amplify Learning: Amplify’s curriculum business is developing digital content for K-12 English Language Arts, Math and Science, including
software that will combine interactive, game-like experiences, rich immersive media, and sophisticated analytics to make the classroom teaching and learning experience more engaging, rigorous, personalized and effective. Amplify Learning’s
digital curriculum incorporates the new Common Core State Standards adopted by most states in the U.S. and is available for use on multiple platforms.



•Amplify Access:Amplify’s platform business is delivering a tablet-based distribution system to facilitate personalized instruction and
enable anytime, anywhere learning. Amplify Access offers a bundle that includes a tablet designed for the K-12 market, instructional software and curated third-party content, as well as implementation support.

Amplify’s digital products are or will generally be available on a subscription basis. The Company also expects to market and sell
some supplemental print-based materials, as well as instructional and information technology-related services. In addition, while each of Amplify’s products will be available on a stand-alone basis, the Company also anticipates that it will
have the ability to cross-sell products between Amplify’s three business areas and offer bundled solutions to its customers.

Amplify competes with existing K-12 education publishers and content providers such as Pearson plc, McGraw-Hill Education and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, large platform companies such as Google, Apple, and
Amazon that market their tablet or e-reader products for educational use, as well as a number of smaller content, analytics and distribution platform companies. The Company believes that Amplify’s capabilities across analytics and assessment,
content and curriculum and distribution and delivery make it well positioned to offer schools a unique integrated learning solution.

Other

The Other segment includes the Company’s general corporate overhead expenses, corporate Strategy and Creative Group
and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters. The Company’s corporate Strategy and Creative Group was formed to identify new products and services across the Company’s businesses to increase







revenues and profitability and to target and assess potential acquisitions and investments. Recent initiatives include the News Corp Global Exchange, the Company’s global programmatic
advertising exchange that enables marketers to leverage the Company’s leading online and mobile products and first-party data for real-time bidding, as well as the launch of the Company’s BallBall mobile app in Japan, Indonesia and
Vietnam, which combines the Company’s rights to exclusive football highlight clips, expert coverage, commentary and analysis fromThe Times,The Sunday TimesandThe Sun. As part of its ongoing role in assessing potential
acquisitions, the Strategy and Creative Group also oversaw the Company’s acquisition of Storyful, the world’s first social media news agency, in December 2013.

Equity Investments

Foxtel

The Company and Telstra, an ASX-listed telecommunications company, each own 50% of Foxtel, the largest pay-TV provider in Australia.
Foxtel has approximately 2.6 million subscribing households throughout Australia as of June 30, 2014 through cable, satellite and IPTV distribution.

Foxtel generates revenue primarily through subscription revenue as well as advertising revenue. For the year ended June 30, 2014, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(“GAAP”), Foxtel recorded revenues of $2.9 billion and earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, of $903 million. Management believes that EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the
operating performance of this business for the reasons set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Segment Analysis” with respect to Segment
EBITDA. In the year ended June 30, 2014, Foxtel’s average residential recurring subscription revenue per user, or ARPU, was A$96 (US$88) per month (as calculated by Foxtel), and its annualized residential subscriber churn rate based on
data for the year ended June 30, 2014 was 12.5% (as calculated by Foxtel). In addition, Foxtel had $2.0 billion of indebtedness outstanding as of June 30, 2014 (excluding $851 million of shareholder loans due to Telstra and the
Company), and paid distributions of $151 million to the Company during the year ended June 30, 2014. The amount included for Foxtel in the Company’s Equity earnings of affiliates was $90 million for the year ended June 30, 2014.

The Company and Telstra each have the right to appoint one-half of the board of directors of Foxtel. In addition, the Company
has the right to appoint the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Foxtel, while Telstra has the right to terminate these officers.

Foxtel competes primarily with the three major commercial FTA networks and two major government-funded FTA broadcasters in Australia for audiences, as well as other pay-TV operators and IPTV providers.







Foxtel provides a 200-plus channel selection with premium and exclusive content and a wide array of digital and mobile features that are not available to viewers on the FTA networks. Through
innovations such as digital HD channels, the extension of pay-TV programming to mobile devices and the use of DVR and Electronic Program Guide technology, the Company believes Foxtel offers subscribers a compelling alternative to FTA TV and
Foxtel’s other competitors.

Governmental Regulation

General

Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to
regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations described herein. The introduction of new laws and regulations in countries
where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the Company’s interests.

Australian Media Regulation

The Company’s subscription television interests are subject to Australia’s regulatory framework for the broadcasting industry. The key regulatory body for the Australian broadcasting industry is
the Australian Communications and Media Authority.

Key regulatory issues for subscription television providers include:
(a) anti-siphoning restrictions—currently under the ‘anti-siphoning’ provisions of the Australian Broadcasting Services Act 1992 (Cth), subscription television providers are prevented from acquiring rights to televise certain
listed events (for example, the Olympic Games and certain Australian Rules football and cricket matches) unless national and commercial television broadcasters have not obtained these rights 12 weeks before the start of the event or the rights to
televise are also held by commercial television licensees who have rights to televise the event to more than 50% of the Australian population or the rights to televise are also held by one of Australia’s two major government-funded
broadcasters; and (b) the Broadcasting Services Act—this legislation may impact the Company’s ownership structure and operations and restrict its ability to take advantage of acquisition or investment opportunities including, for
example, preventing it from exercising control of a commercial television broadcasting license, a commercial radio license and a newspaper in the same license area.

U.K. Press Regulation

On July 13, 2011, Prime Minister David Cameron
announced a two-part inquiry into the U.K. press and appointed Lord Justice Leveson as Chairman of the Inquiry. The inquiry was triggered by allegations of illegal voicemail interception at the Company’s former publication,The News of the
World. Hearings opened on November 14, 2011 with respect to the first part of the inquiry, and Lord Justice Leveson published his report on November 29, 2012. The report made recommendations on the future of press regulation and
governance in the U.K., which have been the subject of debate in the U.K. parliament, as well as discussion both among newspaper groups (including News UK) and the industry and the government. A date has yet to be set for the second part of the
inquiry.

On March 18, 2013, the U.K. Government published a draft Royal Charter on Self-Regulation of the Press which,
if granted, would establish a Recognition Panel that would be responsible for recognizing, overseeing and monitoring a new press regulatory body. The new press regulatory body, a majority of the members of which would be independent of the industry,
would be responsible for overseeing the U.K. press and would replace the existing Press Complaints Commission. The U.K. Government also proposed legislation which would ensure that the Royal Charter could only be altered by a two-thirds majority of
parliament. In addition to the Royal Charter and establishment of a new regulatory body, rules have been proposed which, if adopted, would result in publishers who do not participate in this new U.K. press regulatory system being potentially liable
for exemplary damages in certain cases where such damages are not currently awarded.







In late 2013, publications representing the majority of the industry in the U.K., including
News UK, entered into binding contracts to form an alternative new regulator instead, which is referred to as the Independent Press Standards Organisation. Since then, steps have been taken to form the new regulator and appoint an independent
chairman and its board. The new regulator is expected to be operational by September 2014. The new regulator will, among other things, oversee the press code of practice, require members to implement appropriate internal governance processes and
require self-reporting of any failures, provide a complaints handling service, have the ability to require publications to print corrections, have the power to investigate serious or systemic breaches of the press code and be able to levy fines. It
may also introduce an arbitration service to resolve claims against publications. When established, the new regulatory regime will impose burdens on the print media, including the Company’s newspaper businesses in the U.K., which may represent
competitive disadvantages versus other forms of media and may increase the costs of compliance.

Data Privacy and Security

Our business activities are subject to laws and regulations governing the collection, use, sharing, protection and retention of personal
data, which continue to evolve in light of changes in information technology and analytics techniques that have implications for how such data is managed. For example, in the U.S., the Company’s websites, mobile apps and other online business
activities are subject to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, which prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent, and the Controlling
the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, which regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or “spam.” In addition, regulators such as the Federal Trade Commission continue to expand their
application of general consumer protection laws to commercial data practices, including the use of personal and profiling data from online users to deliver targeted Internet advertisements. Many states have also enacted legislation regulating data
privacy and security, including laws requiring businesses to provide notice to individuals whose personally identifiable information has been disclosed as a result of a data breach.

Similar laws and regulations have been implemented in many of the other jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including the
European Union and Australia. The European Union is currently considering a new privacy regulation that would replace its existing Data Protection Directive and, if adopted in its current proposed form, would expand the regulation of the collection,
use and security of personal data, continue to restrict the trans-border flow of such data, introduce an expanded right of individuals to have their data deleted upon request, enhance penalties for non-compliance and increase the enforcement powers
of the European Commission. In Australia, recent changes in data privacy laws impose additional requirements on organizations that handle personal data by, among other things, requiring the disclosure of cross-border data transfers and placing
restrictions on direct marketing practices, and additional data privacy and security requirements and industry standards are under consideration.

In response to such developments, industry participants in the U.S., Europe and Australia have taken steps to increase compliance with relevant industry-level standards and practices, including the
implementation of self-regulatory regimes for online behavioral advertising that impose obligations on participating companies, such as the Company, to give consumers a better understanding of, and greater control over, advertisements that are
customized based on their online behavior.

The Company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain
relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments.

Education

The availability of funding for K-12 education is affected by changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, as well as
changes in the state procurement process. Future changes in federal funding and the state and local tax base could create an unfavorable environment, leading to budget issues and resulting decreases in educational funding that could, in turn, have
an adverse impact on the Company’s digital education business.







Intellectual Property

The Company’s intellectual property assets include: copyrights in newspapers, books, television programming and other content and technologies; trademarks in names and logos; domain names; and
licenses of intellectual property rights. In addition, its intellectual property assets include patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services, none of which are material to its financial
condition or results of operations. The Company derives value and revenue from these assets through, among other things, print and digital newspaper and magazine subscriptions and sales, the sale, distribution and/or licensing of print and digital
books, the sale of subscriptions to its content and information services, the operation of websites and other digital properties and the distribution and/or licensing of its television programming to cable and satellite television services.

The Company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property assets in the U.S., the U.K., Australia and
other foreign territories. To protect these assets, the Company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other laws and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to
which these measures will be successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products, services and content and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the
infringement by unauthorized third parties of the Company’s intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit such threat through a combination of approaches, including pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate
legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. Piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to
revenues from products and services based on intellectual property.

Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the
Company’s intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of
resources that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Therefore, the Company engages in efforts to
strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement.

Raw Materials

As a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing
inserts and books, the Company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. In order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the Company’s paper purchasing is done on a regional, volume purchase basis, and draws
upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. The Company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate.

Employees

As of
June 30, 2014, the Company had approximately 22,000 employees, of whom approximately 7,000 were located in the U.S., 4,000 were located in the U.K. and 9,000 were located in Australia. Of the Company’s employees, approximately 6,000 were
represented by various employee unions. The contracts with such unions will expire during various times over the next several years. The Company believes its current relationships with employees are generally good.







