ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading wireless and broadcast communications infrastructure company that owns, operates and develops communications sites. Our primary business is leasing antenna space on multi-tenant
communications sites to wireless service providers and radio and television broadcast companies. We refer to this business as our rental and management operations, which accounted for approximately 98% of our total revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2010. We also offer tower-related services domestically, including site acquisition, zoning and permitting services and structural analysis services, which primarily support our site leasing business and the addition of new tenants
and equipment on our sites.

Our communications site portfolio includes wireless communications towers, broadcast
communications towers and distributed antenna system (“DAS”) networks, which are collocation solutions to support seamless in-building and outdoor wireless coverage. Our portfolio consists of towers that we own and towers that we operate
pursuant to long-term lease arrangements, including, as of December 31, 2010, approximately 20,900 towers domestically and approximately 13,900 towers internationally. Our portfolio also includes approximately 200 in-building and outdoor DAS
networks that we operate in malls, casinos and other in-building applications, and select outdoor environments. In addition to the communications sites in our portfolio, we manage rooftop and tower sites for property owners.

American Tower Corporation was created as a subsidiary of American Radio Systems Corporation in 1995 and was spun off into a
free-standing public company in 1998. Since inception, we have grown our communications site portfolio through acquisitions, long-term lease arrangements, development and construction of sites, and through mergers with and acquisitions of other
tower operators.

American Tower Corporation is a holding company, and we conduct our operations through our directly and
indirectly owned subsidiaries. Our principal domestic operating subsidiaries are American Towers, Inc. (“ATI”) and SpectraSite Communications, LLC (“SpectraSite”). We conduct our international operations through our subsidiary,
American Tower International, Inc., which in turn conducts operations through its various international operating subsidiaries. Our international operations consist primarily of our operations in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, India, Mexico and Peru. In
addition, as previously disclosed, we have entered into definitive agreements to acquire communications sites in South Africa and Ghana, and subject to customary closing conditions, we expect to close on initial tranches of communications sites
during the first half of 2011.

Increased expansion activity in international markets and changes to our organizational
structure have led us to separately disclose our rental and management operations in two reportable segments: domestic rental and management and international rental and management. Through our network development services segment, we also offer
tower-related services domestically. Accordingly, our continuing operations are reported in three segments, domestic rental and management, international rental and management and network development services. For more information about our business
segments, as well as financial information about the geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
and note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

Products and Services

Rental and Management Operations

Our rental and management operations accounted for approximately 98%, 97% and 97% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our tenants lease space on
our







communications site infrastructure, where they install and maintain their individual communications network equipment. Our revenue is primarily generated from tenant leases, and the annual rental
payments vary considerably depending upon various factors, including but not limited to, tower location, amount of tenant equipment on the tower, ground space required by the tenant, and remaining tower capacity. Our tenant leases are typically
non-cancellable and have annual rent escalations. Our primary costs typically include ground rent, property taxes and repairs and maintenance, which are primarily fixed, with annual cost escalations. In our international markets, a portion of our
operating costs is passed through to our tenants, such as ground rent and fuel costs. Our rental and management operations have generated consistent incremental growth in revenue and have low cash flow volatility due to the following
characteristics:



•Consistent demand for our sites.We have the ability to add new tenants and new equipment for existing tenants on our sites. Our legacy site
portfolio and our established tenant base provide us with a diverse source of new business opportunities, which has historically resulted in consistent and predictable organic revenue growth.



•Long-term tenant leases with contractual rent escalations.In general, a tenant lease has an initial non-cancellable term of five to ten years
with multiple five-year renewal terms thereafter, and lease payments that typically increase 3% to 5% per year. As a result, as of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $13.5 billion of non-cancellable tenant lease revenue, absent the
impact of straight-line lease accounting.



•High lease renewal rates.Our tenants tend to renew leases because suitable alternative sites may not exist or be available and repositioning a
site in their network may be expensive and may adversely affect the quality of their network. Historical churn has been approximately 2% of total rental and management revenue per year.



•High operating leverage.Incremental operating costs associated with adding new tenants to an existing communications site are minimal.
Therefore, as additional tenants are added, the substantial majority of incremental revenue flows through to operating profit.



•Low maintenance capital expenditures.On average, we require low amounts of annual capital expenditures to maintain our communications
sites.

Our domestic rental and management segment is comprised of our nationwide network of communications
sites that enable us to address the needs of national, regional, local and emerging communications service providers. Our domestic rental and management segment accounted for approximately 79%, 82% and 83% of our total revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Our international rental and management segment, which is comprised
primarily of communications sites in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, India, Mexico and Peru, provides a source of diversification and growth. Our international rental and management segment accounted for approximately 19%, 15% and 14% of our total revenues
for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Our rental and management operations include the
operation of wireless communications towers, broadcast communications towers and DAS networks, as well as rooftop management.

Wireless Communications Towers.We own and operate wireless communications towers in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Colombia,
India, Mexico and Peru. Approximately 93%, 94% and 92% of revenue in our rental and management segments was attributable to our wireless towers for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.







We lease space on our wireless communications towers to tenants in a diverse range of
wireless services, including personal communications services, cellular, enhanced specialized mobile radio, WiMAX, paging and fixed microwave. Our four largest domestic and international tenants by revenue are as follows:



•Domestic:AT&T Mobility, Sprint Nextel, Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile USA accounted for approximately 74% of domestic rental and management
segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010;



•International:Iusacell (Mexico), Idea Cellular (India), Nextel International (primarily through its operating subsidiaries in Brazil and
Mexico) and Telefonica (through its various operating subsidiaries in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru) accounted for approximately 58% of international rental and management segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010.

Accordingly, we are subject to certain risks, as set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the
caption “Risk Factors—Due to the long-term expectations of revenue growth from tenant leases, we are sensitive to changes in the creditworthiness and financial strength of our tenants” and “A substantial portion of our revenue is
derived from a small number of customers.” In addition, we are subject to risks related to our international operations, as set forth under the caption “Risk Factors—Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other
risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.”

Broadcast Communications Towers, DAS Networks and Rooftop Management.In addition to our wireless communications towers, we also own and operate broadcast towers and DAS networks, and provide
communications site management services to third parties.



•Broadcast Communications Towers.We are one of the largest independent owners and operators of broadcast towers in the United States and
Mexico. We own approximately 200 broadcast towers in the United States and have exclusive rights to approximately 200 broadcast towers in Mexico. Broadcast towers generally are taller and structurally more complex than typical wireless
communications towers, require unique engineering skills and are more costly to build. We lease space on our broadcast towers to a variety of tenants including wireless service providers, but the higher elevations on these towers are primarily
leased to radio and television broadcast companies.



•DAS Networks.We own and operate approximately 200 DAS networks in malls, casinos and other in-building applications in the United States,
Mexico and Brazil. We obtain rights from property owners to install and operate in-building DAS networks, and we grant rights to wireless service providers to attach their equipment to our installations. We also offer outdoor DAS networks as a
complementary shared infrastructure solution for our tenants, and currently operate such networks in the United States. Typically, we design, build and operate our DAS networks in areas in which zoning restrictions or other barriers may prevent or
delay deployment of more traditional wireless infrastructures.



•Rooftop Management.We provide management services to property owners in the United States who own rooftops that are capable of hosting wireless
communications equipment. We obtain rights to manage a rooftop by entering into contracts with property owners pursuant to which we receive a percentage of occupancy or license fees paid by the wireless carriers and other tenants.

Network Development Services

Through our network development services segment, we offer tower-related services domestically, including site acquisition, zoning and
permitting services and structural analysis services, which primarily support our site leasing business and the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. This segment accounted for approximately 2%, 3% and 3% of our total revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Site Acquisition, Zoning and Permitting. We engage in
site acquisition services on our own behalf in connection with our tower development projects, as well as on behalf of our tenants. We typically work with our







tenants’ engineers to determine the geographic areas where new tower sites will best address the tenants’ needs and meet their coverage objectives. Once a new site is identified, we
acquire the rights to the land or structure on which the site will be constructed, and we manage the permitting process to ensure all necessary approvals are obtained to construct and operate the communications site under applicable law.

Structural Analysis.We offer structural analysis services to wireless carriers in connection with the installation of their
communications equipment on our towers. Our team of engineers can evaluate whether a tower can support the additional burden of the new equipment or if an upgrade is needed, which enables our tenants to better assess potential sites before making an
installation decision. Our structural analysis capabilities enable us to provide higher quality service to our existing tenants by, among other things, reducing cycle times, as well as provide opportunities to offer structural analysis services to
third parties.

Strategy

Operational Strategy

Our operational strategy is to capitalize on
the growth in the use of wireless communications services and the evolution of advanced wireless handsets, as well as the expanding infrastructure required to deploy current and future generations of wireless communications technologies. To achieve
this, our primary focus is to increase the leasing of our existing communications site portfolio, invest in and selectively grow our communications site portfolio, further improve upon our operational performance and maintain a strong balance sheet.
We believe these efforts will further support and maximize our ability to capitalize on the growth in demand for wireless infrastructure.



•Increase the leasing of our existing communications site portfolio.We believe that our highest returns will be achieved by leasing additional
space on our existing communications sites. As a result of wireless industry capital spending trends in the markets we serve, we anticipate consistent demand for our communications sites because they are attractively located for wireless service
providers and have capacity available for additional tenants. As of December 31, 2010, we had an average of approximately 2.3 average tenants per tower. We believe that of our towers that are currently at or near full structural capacity, the
vast majority can be upgraded or augmented to meet future tenant demand, with relatively modest capital investment. Therefore, we will continue to target our sales and marketing activities to increase the utilization, and return on investment of,
our existing communications sites.



•Invest in and selectively grow our communications site portfolio.We seek opportunities to invest and grow our operations through our capital
programs and acquisitions. We believe we can achieve attractive risk adjusted returns by pursuing such investments. This includes pursuing opportunities to invest through new site construction and acquisitions in our domestic and in select
international markets which we believe have a high-growth wireless industry and are attractive from a macroeconomic standpoint.



•Further improve on our operational performance.We will continue to seek opportunities to improve our operational performance throughout the
organization. This includes investing in our systems and people as we strive to improve our efficiencies and provide best in class service to our customers. To achieve this, we intend to continue to focus on customer service, such as reducing cycle
times for key functions, including lease processing and tower structural analysis.



•Maintain a strong balance sheet.We will continue to maintain our disciplined approach to managing our balance sheet. This includes maintaining
a target net leverage ratio and ensuring ample liquidity is available to pursue our strategy. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.8 billion of available liquidity. We believe that our investment grade ratings and our current level
of net leverage make us an attractive service provider partner for our tenants, and provide us with consistent access to the capital markets.







Capital Allocation Strategy

The objective of our capital allocation strategy is to simultaneously increase recurring free cash flow per share growth and our return on
invested capital. To achieve this, we expect we will continue to deploy our capital through our annual capital expenditure program and acquisitions, while continuing our stock repurchase program or implementing a dividend program to the extent we
determine it necessary or appropriate. During 2010, we generated approximately $1.0 billion of cash provided by operating activities, which along with incremental debt, was used to fund nearly $1.7 billion of investments, which included
approximately $346.7 million of capital expenditures, $899.6 million of acquisitions and $420.8 million of stock repurchases, including commissions and fees.



•Annual capital expenditure program. We will continue to reinvest in our existing assets and expand our existing communications site portfolio
through our annual capital expenditure program. This includes capital expenditures associated with maintenance, increasing the capacity of our existing sites, and projects such as new site construction, land acquisitions, and shared generator
installations. We believe we can achieve the highest incremental recurring free cash flow per share and returns on our invested capital through our annual capital expenditure program.



•Acquisitions.We will seek to pursue acquisitions of communications sites. This includes acquisitions in our existing or new markets where we
can meet our return on investment criteria. When evaluating international investments, our return on investment criteria reflects the additional risks inherent to the particular geographic area.



•Stock repurchase program.If we have sufficient capital available to fund our capital expenditures and other acquisition opportunities, and we
have access to capital available for anticipated future investment, we will seek to return that capital to shareholders. We currently utilize a stock repurchase program to facilitate this return and we may provide return to shareholders in the
future through the payment of dividends should we elect real estate investment trust (“REIT”) status.

International Expansion Strategy

We believe that in certain
international markets, we can create substantial value by establishing an independent wireless infrastructure leasing business. Therefore, we expect we will continue to seek international expansion opportunities, where our risk adjusted return
objectives can be achieved. Our international expansion strategy includes a disciplined, individualized market evaluation, whereby we conduct the following analyses:



•Country analysis.Prior to pursuing a new geographical area, we review the country’s political stability, historical and projected
macro-economic fundamentals and the general business environment, including property rights and regulatory environment.



•Wireless industry analysis.To ensure sufficient demand for an independent tower company, we analyze the competitiveness of the country’s
wireless industry and the stage of its wireless network deployment. Characteristics that result in an attractive investment opportunity include a country that has multiple competitive wireless service providers who are actively seeking to invest in
deploying voice and data networks, as well as spectrum auctions that have or that are anticipated to occur.



•Opportunity and counterparty analysis.Finally, once an investment opportunity is identified within a geographical area with a competitive
wireless industry, we conduct a multifaceted opportunity and counterparty analysis. This includes evaluating the type of transaction, its ability to meet our risk adjusted return criteria for the country and the counterparties involved, as well as
how the transaction fits within our long-term strategic objectives, including future potential investment and expansion within the region.







Demand Drivers

Our strategy is predicated on our belief that wireless service providers will continue to invest in their networks in both our domestic
and international markets, driving demand for our communications sites:



•Domestic wireless network investments.Historically, according to industry data, aggregate annual wireless capital spending in the United States
has typically been approximately $20 to $25 billion. As a result of this level of capital spending, demand for our site has remained consistent. Accordingly, demand for our domestic communications sites is driven by:



•Wireless service provider focus on network quality and coverage as a competitive advantage;



•Rapid subscriber adoption of third generation (“3G”) wireless data applications, such as email, internet access and video;



•Pursuit of new avenues for growth by wireless service providers, such as deploying fourth generation (“4G”) technology based wireless
networks to provide higher speed data services and enable fixed broadband substitution; and



•Deployment of wireless networks by new market entrants.

As these factors continue to grow as a competitive necessity in the United States on a widespread basis, wireless service providers may be compelled to deploy new technology and equipment, further
increase the cell density of their existing networks and expand their network coverage.



•International wireless network investments.The wireless networks in our served international markets are less advanced than those in our
domestic market, with respect to the density of voice networks and the current technologies generally deployed for wireless services. Accordingly, demand for our international communications sites is primarily driven by:



•Incumbent wireless service providers investing in existing voice networks to improve or expand their coverage and increase capacity;



•In certain of our international markets, subscriber adoption of 3G wireless data applications, such as email, internet access and video; and



•Spectrum auctions, which result in new market entrants, as well as initial data network deployments.

We believe demand for our communications sites will continue as wireless service providers seek to increase the quality and coverage of
their networks, while also investing in next generation data networks. To meet this demand, we believe wireless carriers will continue to outsource their communications site infrastructure needs as a means to accelerate access to their markets and
more efficiently use their capital, rather than construct and operate their own communications sites and maintain their own communications site service and development capabilities.

Recent Developments

Growth and Expansion

In 2010, we continued to focus on growing our operations using selective criteria for acquisitions and new site
development, including expansion into new and existing international geographic areas. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we grew our communications site portfolio through acquisitions and construction activities, including the
acquisition and construction of approximately 7,800 towers and the installation of approximately 30 in-building and outdoor DAS networks. In addition, we continue to evaluate complementary product lines such as shared generators to supplement
our tower site growth and expansion strategy. We also continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire larger communications site portfolios that we believe we can effectively integrate into our portfolio.







United States. During 2010, in response to the needs of our tenants, we pursued
the acquisition and construction of communications sites in select locations throughout the United States. Our expansion in the United States during 2010 included the acquisition and construction of approximately 900 towers and the installation of
approximately 30 in-building and outdoor DAS networks.

International. During 2010, we increased our footprint in
Latin America primarily through the acquisition and construction of approximately 1,700 towers in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru. During 2010, we also expanded our presence in India through the acquisition of Essar Telecom Infrastructure
Private Limited (“ETIPL”), adding over 4,600 towers to our communications site portfolio. We also constructed approximately 500 towers in India. As previously disclosed, in 2010 we entered into definitive agreements to acquire
communications sites in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ghana and South Africa, subject to customary closing conditions.

Financing Transactions

In 2010, we continued to raise capital to refinance our outstanding indebtedness and fund acquisitions. In August and December of 2010, we completed registered public offerings of $700.0 million aggregate
principal amount of our 5.05% senior notes due 2020 (“5.05% Notes”) and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our 4.50% senior notes due 2018 (“4.50% Notes”).

For more information about our financing transactions, see Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and notes 6 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

Regulatory Matters

Towers and Antennas.Our domestic and international tower operations are subject to national, state and local regulatory requirements with respect to the registration, siting, lighting, marking and
maintenance of our towers. In the United States, which accounted for approximately 81% of our total rental and management revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010, depending on factors such as tower height and proximity to public airfields,
the construction of new towers or modifications to existing towers may require pre-approval by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”). Towers requiring pre-approval must be
registered with the FCC and painted, lighted and maintained in accordance with FAA standards. Similar requirements regarding pre-approval of the construction and modification of towers are imposed by regulators in other countries, such as the
Ministry of Civil Aviation in India and the Ministry of Transportation and Telecommunications in Chile. Non-compliance with applicable tower-related requirements may lead to monetary penalties.

Furthermore, in India, each of our subsidiaries holds an Infrastructure Provider Category-I license (“IP-I”) issued by the
Indian Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, which permits us to provide tower space to companies licensed as telecommunications service providers under the Indian Telegraph Act of 1885. While we are required to provide tower
space on a non-discriminatory basis, we may negotiate mutually agreeable terms and conditions with such service providers. As a condition to the IP-I, the Indian government has the right to take over our infrastructure in the case of emergency
or war.

In all countries where we operate, we are subject to zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by local
authorities or community developers. These regulations vary greatly, but typically require tower owners and/or our tenants to obtain approval from local authorities or community standards organizations prior to tower construction or the addition of
a new antenna to an existing tower. Local zoning authorities and community residents often oppose construction in their communities, which can delay or prevent new tower construction, new antenna installation or site upgrade projects, thereby
limiting our ability to respond to customer demand. In addition, zoning regulations can increase costs associated with new tower construction and the addition of new







antennas to a site. Existing regulatory policies may adversely affect the associated timing or cost of such projects and additional regulations may be adopted that cause delays or result in
additional costs to us. These factors could materially and adversely affect our construction activities and operations. In the United States, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 limits state and local zoning authorities by prohibiting any action that
would discriminate between different providers of wireless services or ban altogether the construction, modification or placement of communications towers. It also prohibits state or local restrictions based on the environmental effects of radio
frequency emissions to the extent the facilities comply with FCC regulations.

In addition, our tenants, both domestic and
international, may be subject to new regulatory policies from time to time that may materially and adversely affect the demand for communications sites.

Environmental Matters.Our domestic and international operations, like those of other companies engaged in similar businesses, are subject to various national, state and local environmental laws
and regulations, including those relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances, materials, and wastes, and the siting of our towers. As an owner, lessee
and/or operator of real property and facilities, we may have liability under environmental laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances or waste. Certain of these laws
impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether we, as the owner, lessee or operator, knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination, and whether or not we have discontinued operations or sold the property. We may also be
subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from off-site migration of contamination. We, and our customers, may be required to obtain permits, pay additional property taxes, comply with regulatory
requirements, and make certain informational filings related to hazardous substances and devices used to provide power such as batteries, generators and fuel at our sites. Violations of these types of regulations could subject us to fines or
criminal sanctions.

Additionally, in the United States, before constructing a new tower or adding a new antenna to an
existing site, we must review and evaluate the impact of the action to determine whether it may significantly affect the environment and we must disclose any significant impacts in an environmental assessment. If a tower or new antenna might have a
material adverse impact on the environment, FCC approval of the tower or antenna could be significantly delayed.

Health
and Safety.In the United States and in other countries where we operate, we are subject to various national, state and local laws regarding employee health and safety, including protection from radio frequency exposure.

Competition and Customer Demand

Rental and Management Segments

Our rental and management segments
compete with other international, national and regional tower companies, primarily Crown Castle International Corp. and SBA Communications Corporation in the United States and Indus Towers in India, as well as wireless carriers and broadcasters that
own and operate their own communications site networks and lease space to third parties, numerous independent tower owners and the owners of non-communications sites, including rooftops, utility towers, water towers and other alternative structures.
We believe that site location and capacity, network density, price and quality of service have been and will continue to be significant competitive factors affecting owners, operators and managers of communications sites.

Customer demand is also affected by the emergence and growth of new technologies. Technologies that make it possible for wireless
carriers to increase the capacity and efficiency of their existing networks could reduce customer demand for our communications sites. The increased use of spectrally efficient air access technologies, which potentially can relieve some network
capacity problems, could reduce the demand for tower-based antenna space. Additionally, certain complementary network technologies, such as femtocells, could offload a portion of network traffic away from the traditional tower-based networks, which
could reduce the need for carriers to add more equipment at certain communications sites.







In addition, any increase in the use of network sharing, roaming or resale arrangements by
wireless service providers also could adversely affect customer demand for leasing tower space. These arrangements, which are essentially extensions of traditional roaming agreements, enable a provider to adequately serve its tenants outside its
license area, to give licensed providers the right to enter into arrangements to serve overlapping license areas, and to permit non-licensed providers to enter the wireless marketplace. Consolidation among wireless carriers could similarly impact
customer demand for our communications sites, because the existing networks of wireless carriers often overlap. In addition, if wireless carriers share their sites or swap their sites with other carriers to a significant degree, it could reduce
demand for our communications sites.

Network Development Services Segment

Our network development services segment competes with a variety of companies offering individual, or combinations of, competing services.
The field of competitors includes site acquisition consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consulting firms, structural engineering firms, tower owners/managers, telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide turnkey
site development services through multiple subcontractors, and our customers’ internal staffs. We believe that our customers base their decisions for network development services on various criteria, including a company’s experience, local
reputation, price, and time for completion of a project.

We believe that we compete favorably as to the key competitive
factors relating to our domestic and international rental and management and network development services segments.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we employed 1,729 full-time individuals and consider our employee relations to
be satisfactory.

Available Information

Our Internet website address iswww.americantower.com. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into
this Annual Report, and you should not consider information contained on our website as part of this Annual Report. You may access, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K,
plus amendments to such reports as filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), through the Investors portion of our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

We have adopted a written Code of Conduct that applies to all of our employees and directors, including, but not limited to, our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal
accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Conduct, our corporate governance guidelines, and the charters of the audit, compensation, and nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of
Directors are available at the “Investors” portion of our website. In the event we amend the provisions of our Code of Conduct, or provide any waivers under the Code of Conduct for our directors or executive officers, we intend to disclose
these events on our website as required by the regulations of the New York Stock Exchange and applicable law.

In addition,
paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing us at the following address: 116 Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02116, Attention: Investor Relations; or by calling us at (617) 375-7500.







