ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading wireless and broadcast communications infrastructure
company that develops, owns, and operates communications sites, including wireless communications towers, broadcast communications towers and distributed antenna system (“DAS”) networks. Our portfolio of wireless and broadcast towers
consists of towers that we own and towers that we operate pursuant to long-term lease arrangements, including, as of December 31, 2009, approximately 20,000 towers in the United States and approximately 7,000 towers in Mexico, Brazil and India.
Our portfolio also includes approximately 200 in-building DAS networks that we operate in malls, casinos and other in-building applications in the United States and Mexico and one outdoor DAS network in development in the United States. In addition
to the communications sites in our portfolio, we manage rooftop and tower sites for property owners in the United States, Mexico and Brazil.

Our primary business is leasing antenna space on multi-tenant communications sites to wireless service providers and radio and television broadcast companies. This segment of our business, which we refer
to as our rental and management segment, accounted for approximately 97%, 97% and 98% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Through our network development services segment, we also offer
tower-related services in the United States, including site acquisition, zoning and permitting services and structural analysis services, which directly support our site leasing business and the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites.

We have historically focused on our rental and management segment due to its high operating leverage and low cash flow
volatility when compared to our network development services segment. Our rental and management segment has generated consistent incremental growth in revenue and cash flows due to the following characteristics:



•Long-term tenant leases with contractual escalations.In general, a lease with a wireless carrier has an initial term of five to ten years with
multiple five-year renewal terms thereafter, and lease payments that typically increase 3% to 5% per year.



•High lease renewal rates.Wireless carriers tend to renew leases because suitable alternative sites may not exist or be available and
repositioning a site in a carrier’s network may be expensive and may adversely affect the quality of the carrier’s network.



•High operating leverage.Incremental operating costs associated with adding wireless tenants to a communications site are minimal. Therefore, as
additional tenants are added to a site, the substantial majority of incremental revenue flows through to operating profit.



•Low maintenance capital expenditures.On average, we require low amounts of annual capital expenditures to maintain our communications sites.

Additionally, our communications site portfolio provides us with growth potential because we have the
ability to add new tenants, and new equipment for existing tenants, on our sites. In the United States, our largest geographic area, our nationwide network of communications sites enables us to address the needs of national, regional, local and
emerging wireless service providers. Our diverse site portfolio and our established customer base provide us with a diverse source of new business opportunities, which has historically resulted in consistent and predictable revenue growth. Our
operations in the United States accounted for approximately 85%, 86% and 87% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Our international site leasing business, which is comprised of communications sites in Mexico, Brazil and India, provides a source of
diversification and growth for our rental and management segment. Our international site leasing business accounted for approximately 15%, 14% and 13% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In
developing our international site portfolio, we have focused on building and acquiring communications sites in high demand areas to meet the needs of our customers.







Strategy

Our strategy is to capitalize on the growth in the use of wireless communications services and the expanding infrastructure required to
deploy current and future generations of wireless communications technologies. We believe that, based on current trends, wireless service providers in each of our existing geographic areas will continue to invest in their networks to meet demand
from their new and existing subscribers. Wireless communications services have experienced significant growth in our domestic and international businesses:

Wireless Service Growth



CountrySubscribersas of June 30, 2009(in millions)Year-over-year growth(% increase from prior yearperiod)Penetration rate(%)United States276.65%89%Mexico77.810%72%Brazil159.620%83%India427.352%40%

According to
industry data, in the United States, total voice minutes of use increased to over 1.1 trillion for the six months ended June 30, 2009, representing a year-over-year increase from the prior year period of approximately 3%. Further, as of
June 30, 2009, revenue attributable to data services increased from the prior year period to over 27% as a percent of total service revenues for the nationwide wireless service providers. To meet the needs of growing voice and data service
usage, cell sites in the industry (i.e., the number of antenna arrays and related equipment in commercial operation, not the number of towers on which that equipment is located) increased to approximately 245,900 as of June 30, 2009,
representing a year-over-year increase from the prior year period of 12%.

We believe the growth in the number of wireless
service subscribers, the minutes of use per subscriber and the further adoption of wireless data applications by subscribers will require wireless carriers to add new cell sites and new equipment to existing cell sites to maintain the performance of
their networks in the areas they currently cover and to extend service to areas where coverage does not yet exist. As wireless carriers continue to add subscribers and seek to limit churn, we anticipate they will focus on network quality as a
competitive necessity and will continue to invest in equipment upgrades that increase the capacity and overall quality of their networks.

In addition, we believe that as the usage of wireless data applications, such as email, internet access and video, continues to grow on a widespread basis, wireless carriers may be compelled to further
increase the cell density of their existing networks, deploy new technology and equipment, and expand their network coverage. To meet this demand, we believe wireless carriers will continue to outsource their communications site infrastructure needs
as a means to accelerate access to their markets and more efficiently use their capital, rather than construct and operate their own communications sites and maintain their own communications site service and development capabilities.

We believe that our existing portfolio of communications sites, our tower-related services and our management team position us to benefit
from these trends and to play an increasing role in addressing the needs of wireless service providers and broadcasters. The key elements of our strategy include:



•Maximize Use of Existing Site Capacity.We believe that our highest returns will be achieved by leasing additional space on our existing
communications sites. We anticipate that our revenues and operating profit from our rental and management segment will continue to grow because many of our communications sites are attractively located for wireless service providers and have
capacity available for additional antenna space that we can offer to customers at low incremental costs to us. Because the costs of operating a site are largely fixed, increasing utilization significantly improves operating margins. We will continue
to target our sales and marketing activities to increase utilization, and return on investment, of our existing communications sites.







•Grow Our Operations Using Selective Criteria for Acquisitions and New Site Development.Given the relatively fixed cost structure of our site
leasing business, we believe that adding new communications sites to our portfolio in existing markets will allow us to grow revenues with only modest increases in administrative and operating expenses. Therefore, we seek to acquire and construct
towers and install DAS networks in our existing markets when we are able to meet our return on investment criteria. We evaluate expansion opportunities into new markets on a similar basis. We consider geographic expansion into countries that have a
relatively stable political and macroeconomic environment, a growing, competitive wireless communications industry, and multiple wireless carriers that are likely to outsource their communications site infrastructure needs to us.



•Continue Our Focus on Customer Service and Processes.Because speed to market and reliable network performance are critical components to the
success of wireless service providers, our ability to assist customers in meeting their goals contributes to our success. We intend to continue to focus on customer service, for example, by reducing cycle times for key functions, such as lease
processing and tower structural analysis. In addition, we seek to develop complementary product lines, such as generators, that expand the shared infrastructure available at our communications sites. We are also continuing our efforts to
improve customer access to information regarding our communications sites to allow faster and easier site selection and qualification by our customers. We believe that by increasing the speed with which we provide our customers with accurate and
complete information about our sites, we will be able to increase our competitiveness and revenue generation.



•Build On Our Customer Relationships.Our understanding of the network needs of our customers and our ability to convey effectively how we can
satisfy those needs are key to our efforts to add new antenna leases, cross-sell our services and identify desirable new projects, including site development. We are building on our relationships with our major wireless carrier customers to gain
more familiarity with their evolving network plans so we can identify opportunities where our portfolio of sites and experienced personnel can be used to satisfy their needs. We are also working with smaller and emerging wireless carriers and
network operators as they define their coverage and network needs and expand into new markets. In addition, we are also seeking opportunities to build relationships with new market participants who have obtained or may obtain spectrum licenses,
including those who participated in recent governmental auctions of wireless spectrum. We believe we are well positioned to be a preferred partner to our customers because of the size, scope and location of our portfolio of communications sites and
our proven operating experience.

The Company

American Tower Corporation was created as a subsidiary of American Radio Systems Corporation in 1995 to own, manage, develop and lease
communications and broadcast tower sites, and was spun off into a free-standing public company in 1998. Since inception, we have grown our communications site portfolio through acquisitions, long-term lease arrangements, development and
construction, and through mergers with and acquisitions of other tower operators, increasing the size of our portfolio to over 27,200 communications sites.

American Tower Corporation is a holding company, and we conduct our operations through our directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries. Our principal United States operating subsidiaries are American
Towers, Inc. (“ATI”) and SpectraSite Communications, LLC (“SpectraSite”). We conduct our international operations through our subsidiary, American Tower International, Inc., which in turn conducts operations through its various
international operating subsidiaries. Our international operations consist of our operations in Mexico, Brazil and India.

We
operate in two business segments: rental and management and network development services. For more information about our business segments, as well as financial information about the geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7 of this
Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.







Products and Services

Rental and Management Segment

Our primary business is our communications site leasing business, which we conduct through our rental and management segment. This segment accounted for approximately 97%, 97% and 98% of our total
revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our rental and management segment is comprised of our domestic and international site leasing business, including the operation of wireless communications towers,
broadcast communications towers and DAS networks, as well as rooftop management.

Wireless Communications Towers.We
are a leading independent owner and operator of wireless communications towers in the United States, Mexico and Brazil, based on number of towers and revenue. We also own and operate communications towers in India, where we commenced operations in
the second half of 2007. In addition to owning wireless communications towers, we also manage wireless communications sites for property owners in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. Approximately 94%, 92% and 91% of our rental and management
segment revenue was attributable to our wireless towers for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, our wireless tower portfolio included the following:



CountryNumber ofOwned Towers(approx)Coverage AreaUnited States19,800Coverage spans 49 states and the District of Columbia; over 90% of the network provides coverage in the top 100 markets or core areas such as high traffic interstate corridors.Mexico2,600Coverage primarily concentrated in highly populated areas, including Mexico City, Monterrey and Guadalajara.Brazil1,600Coverage primarily concentrated in major metropolitan areas throughout Brazil.India2,600Coverage primarily concentrated in northern, eastern and southern India.

We lease space on our wireless communications towers to customers in a diverse range of wireless industries, including personal communications services, cellular, enhanced specialized mobile radio, WiMAX,
paging and fixed microwave. Our three largest wireless customers by revenue in each country are as follows:



•United States:AT&T Mobility, Sprint Nextel and Verizon Wireless;



•Mexico:Grupo Iusacell, Nextel International and Telefonica (Movistar);



•Brazil:Nextel International, America Movil (Claro) and Vivo;



•India:Vodafone, Idea and Aircel.

For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had three customers that each accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. AT&T Mobility, Sprint Nextel and Verizon Wireless accounted for
approximately 19%, 18% and 15%, respectively, of our 2009 total revenues. Approximately 61% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 were derived from four customers. As a result, we are subject to certain risks, as set forth
in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors—Due to the long-term expectations of revenue from tenant leases, we are sensitive to the credit worthiness of our tenants” and “A substantial portion of our
revenue is derived from a small number of customers.” In addition, we are subject to risks related to our international operations, as set forth under the caption “Risk Factors—Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political
and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position.”

Our leases with wireless communications
providers in the markets we serve generally have initial non-cancelable terms of five to ten years. In most cases, our tenant leases have multiple five-year renewal terms







at the option of the tenant. Wireless carriers generally renew their leases with us because suitable alternative sites may not exist or be available and repositioning a site in an existing
carrier’s network may be expensive and often requires reconfiguring several other sites within the carrier’s network, which may impact the carrier’s network quality and coverage and may also require the carrier to obtain other
governmental permits. Most of our tenant leases have escalation provisions that periodically increase the rent due under the lease. These automatic increases are typically annual and are based on a fixed percentage (generally three to five percent),
inflation or a fixed percentage plus inflation.

Annual rental payments vary considerably depending upon various factors
including:



•tower location;



•amount and function of the customer’s equipment on the tower;



•ground space necessary for the customer’s electronic and other equipment related to the antennas;



•remaining tower capacity;



•shared back-up power infrastructure;



•type of tower structure (e.g., stealth or camouflage tower); and



•location of the customer’s antennas on the tower.

The number of antenna arrays that our towers can accommodate varies depending on the tower’s location, height, and structural capacity at certain wind speeds. As of December 31, 2009, our towers
had an average of approximately 2.4 tenants per tower. We believe that a significant majority of our towers have the capacity to add new tenants, and new equipment for existing tenants, without the need to make capital investments to augment the
structure. We believe that nearly all of our towers that are currently at or near full structural capacity can be upgraded or augmented to meet future leasing demand with relatively minor capital investment by strengthening its foundation,
increasing its height or reinforcing the steel crossbars. In the United States, a portion of these upgrade and augmentation costs are generally shared with the customer, resulting in a short payback period for our net capital investment.

Broadcast Communications Towers.We are one of the largest independent owners and operators of broadcast towers in the United
States and Mexico. We own approximately 230 broadcast towers in the United States and have exclusive rights to approximately 200 broadcast towers in Mexico. Broadcast towers generally are taller and structurally more complex than wireless
communications towers, require unique engineering skills and are more costly to build. We lease space on our broadcast towers to a variety of customers including wireless service providers, but the higher elevations on these towers are primarily
leased to radio and television broadcast companies. In leasing tower space to radio and broadcast companies, we generally receive monthly fees, with initial non-cancelable lease terms ranging from ten to twenty years. For the years ended December
31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 6%, 6% and 7%, respectively, of our rental and management segment revenue was attributable to our broadcast communications towers.

DAS Networks.We provide in-building and outdoor DAS networks in the United States. We own and operate approximately 200 in-building DAS networks in malls, casinos and other in-building
applications in the United States and Mexico. We obtain rights to install and operate in-building DAS networks by entering into contracts with property owners, and we grant rights to wireless service providers to attach their equipment to our
in-building DAS networks for a fee under licenses that typically have an initial non-cancelable term of at least ten years.

We offer outdoor DAS networks as a complementary shared infrastructure solution for our customers. Typically, we design, build and operate our outdoor DAS networks in areas in which zoning restrictions or other barriers may prevent or delay
deployment of more traditional wireless structures. Similar to our in-building DAS







networks, our customer agreements for our outdoor DAS networks typically have an initial non-cancelable term of at least ten years.

For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 1% of our rental and management segment revenue was attributable to
our DAS networks.

Rooftop Management.We also provide management services to property owners in the United States,
Mexico and Brazil who own rooftops that are capable of hosting wireless communications equipment. We obtain rights to manage a rooftop by entering into contracts with property owners pursuant to which we receive a percentage of occupancy or license
fees paid by the wireless carriers and other tenants. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 1% of our rental and management segment revenue was attributable to rooftop management.

Network Development Services Segment

We offer tower-related services, including site acquisition, zoning and permitting services and structural analysis services, through our network development services segment. This segment accounted for
approximately 3%, 3% and 2% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Site Acquisition, Zoning and Permitting Services. We engage in site acquisition services on our own behalf in connection with our tower development projects, as well as on the behalf of our customers. We typically work with our
customers’ engineers to determine the geographic areas where a new tower site will best address the customers’ needs and meet their coverage objectives. Once a new site is identified, we acquire the rights to the land or structure on which
the site will be constructed, and we manage the permitting process to ensure all necessary approvals are obtained to construct and operate the communications site under applicable law.

Structural Analysis.We offer structural analysis services to wireless carriers in connection with the installation of communications
equipment on towers. Our team of engineers can evaluate whether a tower can support the additional burden of the new equipment or if augmentation is needed, which enables our customers to better assess potential sites before making an installation
decision. Our structural analysis capabilities enable us to provide higher quality service to our existing customers by, among other things, reducing cycle times related to tower structural analysis, as well as provide opportunities to offer
structural analysis services to third parties.

Recent Developments

Growth and Expansion

In 2009, we continued to focus on our strategy of growing our operations using selective criteria for acquisitions and new site development, including expansion into new international geographic
areas. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we grew our communications site portfolio through acquisitions and construction activities, including the acquisition and construction of 3,529 towers and the installation of 20 in-building
and one outdoor DAS networks. In addition, we continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire larger communications site portfolios that we believe we can effectively integrate into our portfolio.

United States. During 2009, in response to the needs of our customers, we pursued the acquisition and construction of
communications sites in select locations throughout the United States. Our expansion in the United States during 2009 included the acquisition and construction of 507 towers and the installation of 21 in-building and outdoor DAS networks.

Latin America. During 2009, the majority of our expansion efforts in Latin America were focused in Brazil as our customers
sought to increase the density of their networks following a recent wireless spectrum auction. Our expansion in Latin America during 2009 included the acquisition and construction of 578 towers.







Asia. During 2009, we expanded our presence and increased our footprint in India
through the acquisitions of XCEL Telecom Private Limited (“XCEL”) and Insight Infrastructure Pte. Ltd. (“Insight”), as well as the construction of new communications sites. In 2009, we acquired and constructed 2,444 towers.

Financing Transactions

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we improved our financial position by raising capital to refinance and repurchase a portion of our outstanding indebtedness, which increased our flexibility
and our ability to return value to our stockholders. Significant transactions included those set forth below.

Senior Notes
Offerings.In June and October of 2009, we completed institutional private placements of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 7.25% senior unsecured notes due 2019 (“7.25% Notes”) and $600.0 million aggregate principal
amount of our 4.625% senior unsecured notes due 2015 (“4.625% Notes”), respectively. We used the net proceeds from the offering of the 7.25% Notes to finance the repurchase and redemption of our outstanding 7.50% senior notes due 2012
(“7.50% Notes”) and to repay certain of our indebtedness incurred under our $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”). We used the net proceeds from the offering of the 4.625% Notes
primarily to finance the redemption of our outstanding 7.125% senior notes due 2012 (“7.125% Notes”).

Repurchases and Redemption of Debt Securities.During the year ended December 31, 2009, we repurchased or redeemed approximately $725.1 million face amount of our outstanding debt securities, including the repurchase and
redemption of $225.0 million principal amount of our 7.50% Notes, the redemption of $500.0 million principal amount of our 7.125% Notes and the redemption of $0.1 million principal amount of our 3.00% convertible notes due August 15, 2012
(“3.00% Notes”).

Stock Repurchase Program.In 2009, we continued to repurchase shares of our Class A
common stock (“Common Stock”) pursuant to our publicly announced stock repurchase program. In February 2008, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which we are authorized to purchase up to $1.5 billion of
our Common Stock (“2008 Buyback”). During the year ended December 31, 2009, we repurchased 6.6 million shares of our Common Stock for an aggregate of $214.7 million, including commissions and fees, pursuant to the 2008 Buyback.

For more information about our financing transactions, see Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and notes 6 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

Regulatory Matters

Towers and Antennas.The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) regulate the siting, lighting, marking and maintenance of
towers. Depending on factors such as tower height and proximity to public airfields, the construction of new towers or modifications to existing towers may require pre-approval by the FAA. Prior to use, towers requiring FAA approval must be
registered with the FCC and must be painted and lighted in accordance with the FAA’s standards. Tower owners are responsible for notifying the FAA of any tower lighting outages or malfunctions and for timely repairing lighting outages or
malfunctions. Tower owners also must notify the FCC when ownership of a tower changes. We generally indemnify our customers against non-compliance with applicable standards. Non-compliance with applicable tower-related requirements may lead to
monetary penalties.

In all countries in which we own or operate towers, we are subject to local zoning restrictions and
restrictive covenants imposed by local authorities or community developers. These regulations vary greatly, but typically require tower owners and/or licensees to obtain approval from local officials, government agencies or







community standards organizations prior to tower construction or the addition of a new antenna to an existing tower. In the United States however, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 limits state
and local zoning authorities’ jurisdiction over the construction, modification and placement of wireless communications towers. The law preserves local zoning authority but prohibits any action that would discriminate between different
providers of wireless services or ban altogether the construction, modification or placement of communications towers. It also prohibits state or local restrictions based on the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent the
facilities comply with FCC regulations. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 also requires the federal government to help licensees of wireless communications services gain access to preferred sites for their facilities. This may require that federal
agencies and departments work directly with licensees to make federal property available for towers.

Local zoning authorities
and community residents often are opposed to construction in their communities, which can delay or prevent new tower construction, new antenna installation or site upgrade projects, thereby limiting our ability to respond to customer demand. In
addition, zoning regulations can increase costs associated with new tower construction and the addition of new antennas to a site. Existing regulatory policies may adversely affect the associated timing or cost of such projects and additional
regulations may be adopted which can increase delays or result in additional costs to us. These factors could materially and adversely affect our domestic and international construction activities and operations.

As we expand our operations into additional international geographic areas, we will be subject to regulations in these jurisdictions. In
addition, our customers in each country may also be subject to new regulatory policies from time to time that may materially and adversely affect the demand for communications sites and in some cases require relocation of certain sites.

Environmental, Health and Safety Matters.

As an owner, lessee and/or operator of real property and facilities,
we may have liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances or wastes at our sites or at sites to which we transported hazardous substances or wastes. Certain of these
laws impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether we, as the owner, lessee or operator, knew of or were responsible for the contamination, and whether or not we have discontinued operations or sold the property. We may also
be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from off-site migration of contamination.

Our domestic and international operations are also subject to guidelines regarding employee protection from radio frequency exposure and other occupational health and safety matters. In the United States, we are subject to the Occupational
Safety and Health Act of 1970 and our field personnel are subject to regulation by the







Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) and equivalent state agencies concerning such matters.

We, and our customers, may be required to obtain permits, comply with regulatory requirements, and make certain informational filings
related to hazardous substances used at our sites. Violations of these types of regulations could subject us to fines and/or criminal sanctions.

Competition and Customer Demand

Rental and Management Segment

Our rental and management segment competes with other international, national and regional tower companies, such as
Crown Castle International Corp. and SBA Communications Corporation in the United States and Indus Towers in India, as well as wireless carriers and broadcasters that own and operate their own communications site networks and lease space to third
parties, numerous independent tower owners and the owners of non-communications sites, including rooftops, utility towers, water towers and other alternative structures. We believe that site location and capacity, price and quality of service have
been and will continue to be significant competitive factors affecting owners, operators and managers of communications sites.

Customer demand is also affected by the emergence and growth of new technologies. Technologies that make it possible for wireless carriers to increase the capacity and efficiency of their existing networks could reduce customer demand for
our communications sites. The increased use of spectrally efficient air-link technologies, which potentially can relieve some network capacity problems, could reduce the demand for tower-based antenna space. Additionally, certain complementary
network technologies, such as femtocells, could offload a portion of network traffic away from the traditional tower-based networks, which could reduce the need for carriers to add more equipment at certain communications sites.

In addition, any increase in the use of network sharing, roaming or resale arrangements by wireless service providers also could adversely
affect customer demand for tower space. These arrangements, which are essentially extensions of traditional roaming agreements, enable a provider to adequately serve its customers outside its license area, to give licensed providers the right to
enter into arrangements to serve overlapping license areas, and to permit non-licensed providers to enter the wireless marketplace. Consolidation among wireless carriers could have a similar impact on customer demand for our communications sites
because the existing networks of wireless carriers often overlap. In addition, if wireless carriers share their sites or swap their sites with other carriers to a significant degree, it could reduce demand for our communications sites.

Network Development Services Segment

Our network development services segment competes with a variety of companies offering individual, or combinations of, competing services. The field of competitors includes site acquisition consultants,
zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consulting firms, structural engineering firms, tower owners/managers, telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide turnkey site development services through multiple subcontractors, and
our customers’ internal staffs. We believe that our customers base their decisions for network development services on various criteria, including a company’s experience, local reputation, price, and time for completion of a project.

We believe that we compete favorably as to the key competitive factors relating to our rental and management and network
development services segments.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we employed 1,420 full-time individuals and consider our employee relations to be satisfactory.







Available Information

Our Internet website address iswww.americantower.com. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this
Annual Report, and you should not consider information contained on our website as part of this Annual Report. You may access, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, plus
amendments to such reports as filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), through the Investors portion of our website as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

We have adopted a written Code of Conduct that applies to all of our employees and directors, including, but not limited to, our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer or controller, or
persons performing similar functions. The Code of Conduct, our corporate governance guidelines, and the charters of the audit, compensation, and nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors, are available at the
“Investors” portion of our website. In the event we amend the provisions of our Code of Conduct, or provide any waivers of the Code of Conduct for our directors or executive officers, we intend to disclose these events on our website as
required by the regulations of the New York Stock Exchange and applicable law.

In addition, paper copies of these documents
may be obtained free of charge by writing us at the following address: 116 Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02116, Attention: Investor Relations; or by calling us at (617) 375-7500.



