ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading independent owner, operator and developer of wireless and broadcast communications real estate. Our
primary business is leasing antenna space on multi-tenant communications sites to wireless service providers, radio and television broadcast companies, wireless data providers, government agencies and municipalities and tenants in a number of other
industries. We refer to this business as our rental and management operations, which accounted for approximately 97% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. We also offer tower-related services domestically, including site
acquisition, zoning and permitting services and structural analysis services, which primarily support our site leasing business and the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. Effective January 1, 2012, we reorganized to qualify as
a REIT for federal income tax purposes (the “REIT Conversion”).

Our communications real estate portfolio of 54,604
sites, as of December 31, 2012, includes wireless and broadcast communications towers and distributed antenna system (“DAS”) networks, which provide seamless coverage solutions in certain in-building and outdoor wireless environments.
Our portfolio primarily consists of towers that we own and towers that we operate pursuant to long-term lease arrangements, including, as of December 31, 2012, 22,534 towers domestically and 31,789 towers internationally. In addition, our
portfolio also includes 281 DAS networks that we operate primarily in malls and casinos, and select outdoor environments. We also manage rooftop and tower sites for property owners under various contractual arrangements, as well as hold property
interests that we lease to communications service providers and third-party tower operators.

American Tower Corporation was
originally created as a subsidiary of American Radio Systems Corporation in 1995 and was spun off into a free-standing public company in 1998. Since inception, we have grown our communications real estate portfolio through acquisitions, long-term
lease arrangements and site development.

We are a holding company and conduct our operations through our directly and
indirectly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures. Our principal domestic operating subsidiaries are American Towers LLC and SpectraSite Communications, LLC. We conduct our international operations through our subsidiary, American Tower
International, Inc., which in turn conducts operations through its various international operating subsidiaries and joint ventures. Our international operations consist of our operations in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Germany, Ghana, India, Mexico,
Peru, South Africa and Uganda.

Our continuing operations are reported in three segments: domestic rental and management,
international rental and management and network development services. For more information about our business segments, as well as financial information about the geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7 of this Annual Report under the
caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

We hold and operate certain of our assets through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). A TRS is a subsidiary of a
REIT that is subject to applicable corporate income tax. Our use of TRSs enables us to continue to engage in certain businesses while complying with REIT qualification requirements and also allows us to retain income generated by these businesses
for reinvestment without the requirement of distributing those earnings. The non-REIT qualified businesses that we hold through TRSs include our network development services segment. In addition, we have included our international operations and
managed networks business within our TRSs. We are currently considering changing the election of one or more of our previously designated TRSs, which hold certain of our international operations, to be treated as qualified REIT subsidiaries or other
disregarded entities (“QRSs”), and may reorganize and transfer certain assets or operations from our TRSs to other subsidiaries, including QRSs.







As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income taxes on our income and gains
that we distribute to our stockholders, including the income derived from leasing towers. However, even as a REIT, we will remain obligated to pay income taxes on earnings from our TRS assets. In addition, our international assets and operations
continue to be subject to taxation in the foreign jurisdictions where those assets are held or those operations are conducted.

Annually, as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our stockholders an amount equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income
(determined before the deduction for distributed earnings and excluding any net capital gain). Our REIT taxable income typically will not include income earned by our TRSs except to the extent the TRSs pay dividends. In 2012, we paid regular cash
distributions of an aggregate of approximately $355.6 million to our stockholders. We intend to continue paying regular distributions in 2013. The amount, timing and frequency of future distributions will be at the sole discretion of our Board of
Directors and will be declared based upon various factors, a number of which may be beyond our control, including our financial condition and operating cash flows, the amount required to maintain REIT status and reduce any income and excise taxes
that we otherwise would be required to pay, limitations on distributions in our existing and future debt instruments, our ability to utilize net operating losses (“NOLs”) to offset, in whole or in part, our distribution requirements,
limitations on our ability to fund distributions using cash generated through our TRSs and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant.

Products and Services

Rental and
Management Operations

Our rental and management operations accounted for approximately 97%, 98% and 98% of our total
revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our tenants lease space on our communications site infrastructure, where they install and maintain their individual communications network equipment. Our revenue is
primarily generated from tenant leases. The annual rental payments vary considerably depending upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, tower location, amount and type of tenant equipment on the tower, ground space required by the
tenant and remaining tower capacity. Our tenant leases are typically non-cancellable and have annual rent escalations. Our primary costs typically include ground rent (which is primarily fixed, with annual cost escalations), property taxes and
repairs and maintenance. In most of our international markets, a portion of our operating costs is passed through to our tenants, such as ground rent or fuel costs. Our rental and management operations have generated consistent incremental growth in
revenue and have low cash flow volatility due to the following characteristics:



•Consistent demand for our sites.As a result of wireless industry capital spending trends in the markets we serve, we anticipate consistent
demand for our communications sites due to their attractive locations. Additionally, we have the ability to add new tenants and new equipment for existing tenants on our sites. Our legacy site portfolio and our established tenant base provide us
with a solid platform for new business opportunities, which has historically resulted in consistent and predictable organic revenue growth.



•Long-term tenant leases with contractual rent escalations.In general, a tenant lease has an initial non-cancellable term of five to ten years
with multiple five-year renewal terms thereafter, and lease payments that typically increase based on a fixed escalation (approximately 3.5% per year in the United States) or inflationary index. As of December 31, 2012, we had
approximately $20 billion of non-cancellable tenant lease revenue over future periods, absent the impact of straight-line lease accounting.



•High lease renewal rates.Our tenants tend to renew leases because suitable alternative sites may not exist or be available and repositioning a
site in their network may be expensive and may adversely affect the quality of their network. Historical churn has been approximately 1%-2% of total rental and management revenue per year. We define churn as revenue lost when a tenant cancels or
does not renew its lease, and in very limited circumstances, such as a tenant bankruptcy, reductions in lease rates on existing leases. We derive our historical churn rate for a given year by dividing our revenue lost on this basis by our rental and
management segment revenue.







•High operating leverage.Incremental operating costs associated with adding new tenants to an existing communications site are relatively
minimal. Therefore, as additional tenants are added, the substantial majority of incremental revenue flows through to operating profit. In addition, in our international markets certain expenses, such as ground rent or fuel costs, are passed through
to our tenants.



•Low maintenance capital expenditures.On average, we require relatively low amounts of annual capital expenditures to maintain our
communications sites.

Our domestic rental and management segment is comprised of our nationwide network of
communications sites that enables us to address the needs of national, regional, local and emerging communications service providers in the United States, as well as customers in a number of other industries. Our domestic rental and management
segment also includes property interests that we lease to communications service providers and third-party tower operators. Our domestic rental and management segment accounted for approximately 67%, 72% and 79% of our total revenues for the years
ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Our international rental and management segment, which is
comprised of communications sites in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Germany, Ghana, India, Mexico, Peru, South Africa and Uganda, provides a source of diversification and growth. Our international rental and management segment accounted for approximately
30%, 26% and 19% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Our rental
and management operations include the operation of wireless and broadcast communications towers and managed networks, rooftop management, the leasing of property interests and the installation of shared generators domestically.

Communications Towers.We own and operate communications towers in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Germany, Ghana,
India, Mexico, Peru, South Africa and Uganda. Approximately 96%, 98% and 98% of revenue in our rental and management segments was attributable to our communications towers for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

We lease real estate on our communications towers to tenants providing a diverse range of communications services,
including personal communications services, cellular, broadcasting, enhanced specialized mobile radio, WiMAX, paging and fixed microwave. Our top domestic and international tenants by revenue are as follows:



•Domestic:AT&T Mobility, Sprint Nextel, Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile USA accounted for an aggregate of approximately 74% of domestic rental
and management segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012.



•International:Telefónica (in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru), MTN Group Limited (in Ghana, South Africa and Uganda),
Grupo Iusacell, S.A. de C.V. (in Mexico), Nextel International (in Brazil, Chile and Mexico) and Vodafone (in India, Germany, Ghana, South Africa and Uganda), accounted for an aggregate of approximately 55% of international rental and management
segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012.

Accordingly, we are subject to certain risks, as
set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors—A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of tenants, and we are sensitive to changes in the creditworthiness and financial strength
of our tenants.” In addition, we are subject to risks related to our international operations, as set forth under the caption “Risk Factors—Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could
materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.”

Managed Networks, Rooftop Management, Property Interests and Shared Generators.In addition to our communications sites, we also own and operate several types of managed network solutions, provide







communications site management services to third parties, manage and/or lease property interests under carrier or other third-party communications sites and provide back-up power sources to
tenants at our sites.



•Managed Networks.We own and operate 281 DAS networks primarily in malls and casinos in the United States, Mexico, Brazil, Ghana and India. We
obtain rights from property owners to install and operate in-building DAS networks, and we grant rights to wireless service providers to attach their equipment to our installations. We also offer outdoor DAS networks as a complementary shared
infrastructure solution for our tenants, and currently operate such networks in the United States. Typically, we design, build and operate our DAS networks in areas in which zoning restrictions or other barriers may prevent or delay deployment of
more traditional wireless communications sites. We are also currently evaluating other complementary network strategies, such as small cell deployments.



•Rooftop Management.We provide management services to property owners in the United States who own rooftops capable of hosting wireless
communications equipment. We obtain rights to manage a rooftop by entering into contracts with property owners pursuant to which we receive a percentage of occupancy or license fees paid by the wireless carriers and other tenants. As urban markets
continue to evolve, we continue to evaluate infrastructure that may support additional services to meet the growing needs of our tenants’ networks.



•Property Interests.We own a portfolio of property interests in the United States under carrier or other third-party communications sites, which
provides recurring cash flow under complementary leasing arrangements.



•Shared Generators.We install shared backup power generators at a number of our sites in the United States, which we lease to our tenants
to help reinforce their networks.

Network Development Services

Through our network development services segment, we offer tower-related services domestically, including site acquisition, zoning and
permitting services and structural analysis services, which primarily support our site leasing business and the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. This segment accounted for approximately 3%, 2% and 2% of our total revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Site Acquisition, Zoning and Permitting. We engage in
site acquisition services on our own behalf in connection with our tower development projects, as well as on behalf of our tenants. We typically work with our tenants’ engineers to determine the geographic areas where new tower sites will best
address the tenants’ needs and meet their coverage objectives. Once a new site is identified, we acquire the rights to the land or structure on which the site will be constructed, and we manage the permitting process to ensure all necessary
approvals are obtained to construct and operate the communications site.

Structural Analysis.We offer structural
analysis services to wireless carriers in connection with the installation of their communications equipment on our towers. Our team of engineers can evaluate whether a tower structure can support the additional burden of the new equipment or if an
upgrade is needed, which enables our tenants to better assess potential sites before making an installation decision. Our structural analysis capabilities enable us to provide higher quality service to our existing tenants by, among other things,
reducing the time required to achieve operational readiness, while also providing opportunities to offer structural analysis services to third parties.

Strategy

Operational Strategy

Our operational strategy is to capitalize on the growth in the use of wireless communications services and the
evolution of advanced wireless handsets, tablets and other mobile devices, as well as the expanding

infrastructure required to deploy current
and future generations of wireless communications technologies. To







achieve this, our primary focus is to increase the leasing of our existing communications real estate portfolio, invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio, further
improve upon our operational performance and maintain a strong balance sheet. We believe these efforts will further support and enhance our ability to capitalize on the growth in demand for wireless infrastructure.



•Increase the leasing of our existing communications real estate portfolio.We believe that our highest returns will be achieved by leasing
additional space on our existing communications sites. As a result of wireless industry capital spending trends in the markets we serve, we anticipate consistent demand for our communications sites because they are attractively located for wireless
service providers and have capacity available for additional tenants. As of December 31, 2012, we had a global average of approximately 2.0 tenants per tower. We believe that, of our towers that are currently at or near full structural
capacity, the vast majority can be upgraded or augmented to meet future tenant demand with relatively modest capital investment. Therefore, we will continue to target our sales and marketing activities to increase the utilization and return on
investment of our existing communications sites.



•Invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio.We seek opportunities to invest in and grow our operations through our
capital programs and acquisitions. We believe we can achieve attractive risk adjusted returns by pursuing such investments. This includes pursuing opportunities to invest through new site construction and acquisitions in our domestic market and in
select international markets which we believe have a competitive wireless industry, where wireless carriers are deploying next generation technologies, and are attractive from a macroeconomic standpoint. In addition, we seek to secure property
interests under our communications sites to improve operating margins as we reduce our cash operating expense related to ground leases.



•Further improve on our operational performance.We will continue to seek opportunities to improve our operational performance throughout the
organization. This includes investing in our systems and people as we strive to improve our efficiencies and provide superior service to our customers. To achieve this, we intend to continue to focus on customer service, such as reducing cycle times
for key functions, including lease processing and tower structural analysis.



•Maintain a strong balance sheet.We will continue to maintain our disciplined approach to managing our balance sheet. This includes maintaining
our net financial leverage ratio within a target range and ensuring ample liquidity is available to pursue our strategy. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $1.1 billion of available liquidity. We believe that our investment grade
ratings and our current level of net leverage provide us with consistent access to the capital markets and the ability to actively invest in our portfolio and pursue acquisition opportunities.

Capital Allocation Strategy

As a REIT, we must annually distribute to our stockholders an amount equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined before the deduction for distributed earnings and excluding any net
capital gain), which is our first priority within our capital allocation strategy. After our REIT distributions, we expect to continue to deploy our discretionary capital through our annual discretionary capital expenditure program, including land
purchases and new site construction, and through acquisitions. The objective of our allocation of our discretionary capital is to simultaneously increase recurring free cash flow and our return on invested capital. In addition, we intend to return
our remaining excess discretionary capital, if any, to stockholders through continuing our stock repurchase program or declaring special distributions from time to time. During 2012, we generated $1,414.4 million of cash from operating activities,
which along with incremental debt, was used to fund nearly $2,984.3 million of investments, including $568.0 million of capital expenditures, $1,998.0 million of acquisitions and $62.7 million of stock repurchases, including commissions and fees.
During 2012, we paid regular cash distributions in the aggregate of approximately $355.6 million to our stockholders.



•Discretionary capital expenditure program.We will continue to invest in and expand our existing communications real estate portfolio through
our annual discretionary capital expenditure program.







This includes capital expenditures associated with maintenance, increasing the capacity of our existing sites, and projects such as new site construction, land interest acquisitions and shared
generator installations.



•Acquisitions.We will seek to pursue acquisitions of communications sites in our existing or new markets where we can meet our risk adjusted
return on investment criteria. Our risk adjusted hurdle rates consider additional risks such as country risk, counter-party risk and product line risk.



•Return excess discretionary capital to stockholders.If we have sufficient capital available to (i) satisfy our REIT distribution
requirements, (ii) fund our discretionary capital expenditures and acquisition opportunities, and (iii) fund anticipated future investment while remaining within our target leverage range, we will seek to return any excess discretionary
capital to stockholders. We currently utilize a stock repurchase program to facilitate this return.

International Growth Strategy

We believe that, in certain international markets, we can create substantial value by establishing an independent wireless infrastructure leasing business. Therefore, we expect we will continue to seek
international growth opportunities, where we believe our risk adjusted return objectives can be achieved. In addition, we strive to maintain a diversified approach to our international growth strategy by complementing our presence in emerging
markets with operations in more developed and established markets. Our international growth strategy includes a disciplined, individualized market evaluation, in which we conduct the following analyses:



•Country analysis.Prior to entering a new geographic area, we review the country’s political stability, historical and projected
macroeconomic fundamentals and the general business and legal environment, including property rights and regulatory environment.



•Wireless industry analysis.To ensure sufficient demand for an independent tower company, we analyze the competitiveness of the country’s
wireless industry and the stage of its wireless network deployment. Characteristics that result in an attractive investment opportunity include a country that has multiple competitive wireless service providers who are actively seeking to invest in
deploying voice and data networks, as well as participating in spectrum auctions that have or are anticipated to occur.



•Opportunity and counterparty analysis.Once an investment opportunity is identified within a geographic area with a competitive wireless
industry, we conduct a multifaceted opportunity and counterparty analysis. This includes evaluating the type of transaction, its ability to meet our risk adjusted return criteria given the country and the counterparties involved, as well as how the
transaction fits within our long-term strategic objectives, including future potential investment and expansion within the region.

Growth and Expansion

In 2012, we
continued to focus on growing our operations using selective criteria for acquisitions, including expansion into new international markets, and new site development, consistent with our international growth strategy. During the year ended
December 31, 2012, we grew our communications real estate portfolio through the acquisition and construction of approximately 8,790 towers, the installation of approximately 20 in-building and outdoor DAS networks and the installation of
approximately 600 shared generators on our sites in the United States. In addition, we continue to evaluate complementary services to supplement our tower site growth and expansion strategy, as well as opportunities to acquire larger communications
real estate portfolios that we believe we can effectively integrate into our existing business.

United States. We
continued to build on our established foundation in the United States, growing our domestic communications sites portfolio by 6% during the year ended December 31, 2012 primarily through the acquisition and construction of communications sites
in select locations throughout the country. Our expansion in







the United States during 2012 included the acquisition and construction of approximately 945 towers, the installation of approximately 15 in-building and outdoor DAS networks and the installation
of approximately 600 shared generators on our sites.

International. During 2012, we took additional steps to
position ourselves for expansion into new international markets. After announcing the launch of operations in Uganda at the end of 2011, we acquired approximately 960 towers through our joint venture during the first half of 2012. In addition, in
November 2012, we announced that we had launched operations in Germany and subsequently completed the purchase of approximately 2,030 towers in the fourth quarter of 2012, thereby expanding our international footprint to ten countries as of
December 31, 2012. Our international expansion efforts during 2012 also included the acquisition and construction in the aggregate of approximately 4,855 towers and the installation of five in-building DAS networks in our existing markets.

Regulatory Matters

Towers and Antennas.Our domestic and international tower business is subject to national, state and local regulatory requirements with respect to the registration, siting, construction, lighting,
marking and maintenance of our towers. In the United States, which accounted for approximately 69% of our total rental and management revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012, the construction of new towers or modifications to existing
towers may require pre-approval by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), depending on factors such as tower height and proximity to public airfields. Towers requiring
pre-approval must be registered with the FCC and painted, lighted and maintained in accordance with FAA standards. Similar requirements regarding pre-approval of the construction and modification of towers are imposed by regulators in other
countries. Non-compliance with applicable tower-related requirements may lead to monetary penalties or site deconstruction orders.

Furthermore, in India, each of our subsidiaries holds an Infrastructure Provider Category-I license (“IP-I”) issued by the Indian Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, which
permits us to provide tower space to companies licensed as telecommunications service providers under the Indian Telegraph Act of 1885. While we are required to provide tower space on a non-discriminatory basis, we may negotiate mutually
agreeable terms and conditions with such service providers. As a condition to the IP-I, the Indian government has the right to take over telecommunications infrastructure in the case of emergency or war. In Ghana, our subsidiary holds a
Communications Infrastructure License, issued by the National Communications Authority (“NCA”), which permits us to establish and maintain passive telecommunications infrastructure services and DAS networks for communications service
providers licensed by the NCA. While we are required to provide tower space on a non-discriminatory basis, we may negotiate mutually agreeable terms and conditions with such service providers.

Our international business operations may be subject to increased licensing fees or ownership restrictions. For example, the Telecom
Regulatory Authority of India has recommended to the Department of Telecommunications changes in annual licensing fees for tower companies based on revenues generated, as well as the potential implementation of certain limitations on foreign
ownership. In South Africa, the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, 2003 (“the BBBEE Act”) has established a legislative framework for the promotion of economic empowerment of South African citizens disadvantaged by Apartheid, and
accordingly, the BBBEE Act and related codes measure BBBEE Act compliance and good corporate practice by the inclusion of certain ownership, management control, employment equity and other metrics for companies that do business there. Certain
municipalities in Brazil and India have sought to impose certain permit fees based upon structural or operational requirements of towers. In addition, our foreign operations may be affected if a country’s regulatory authority restricts or
revokes spectrum licenses of certain wireless service providers.

In all countries where we operate, we are subject to zoning
restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by local authorities or community organizations. These regulations vary, but typically require tower owners and/or our tenants to obtain approval from local authorities or community standards
organizations prior to tower







Portions of our business are subject to additional regulations, for example, in a number of states throughout the
United States, certain of our subsidiaries hold Competitive Local Exchange Carrier (CLEC) status, or other similar status, in connection with the operation of our outdoor DAS networks business. In addition, we or our tenants, both domestic and
international, may be subject to new regulatory policies in certain jurisdictions from time to time that may materially and adversely affect our business or the demand for our communications sites.

Environmental Matters.Our domestic and international operations, like those of other companies engaged in similar businesses, are
subject to various national, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances, materials and
wastes, and the siting of our towers. As an owner, lessee and/or operator of real property and facilities, we may have liability under environmental laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by
hazardous substances or waste. Certain of these laws impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether we, as the owner, lessee or operator, knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination, and whether or not we have
discontinued operations or sold the property. We also may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from off-site migration of contamination. We may be required to obtain permits, pay additional property
taxes, comply with regulatory requirements, and make certain informational filings related to hazardous substances or devices used to provide power such as batteries, generators and fuel at our sites. Violations of these types of regulations could
subject us to fines or criminal sanctions.

Additionally, in the United States and many other international markets where we
do business, before constructing a new tower or adding a new antenna to an existing site, we must review and evaluate the impact of the action to determine whether it may significantly affect the environment and we must disclose any significant
impacts in an environmental assessment. If a tower or new antenna might have a material adverse impact on the environment, FCC or other governmental approval of the tower or antenna could be significantly delayed.

Health and Safety.In the United States and in other countries where we operate, we are subject to various national, state and
local laws regarding employee health and safety, including protection from radio frequency exposure.

Competition

Our rental and management segments compete, both for new business and for the acquisition of assets, with other public
tower companies, such as Crown Castle International Corp., SBA Communications Corporation and GTL Infrastructure, wireless carrier tower consortiums such as Indus Towers, and private tower companies,







independent wireless carriers, tower owners, broadcasters and owners of non-communications sites, including rooftops, utility towers, water towers and other alternative structures. We believe
that site location and capacity, network density, price, quality and speed of service have been and will continue to be significant competitive factors affecting owners, operators and managers of communications sites.

Our network development services segment competes with a variety of companies offering individual, or combinations of, competing
services. The field of competitors includes site acquisition consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consultants, structural engineering firms, tower owners/managers, telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide
turnkey site development services through multiple subcontractors and our tenants’ internal staffs. We believe that our tenants base their decisions for network development services on various criteria, including a company’s experience,
local reputation, price and time for completion of a project.

Customer Demand

Our strategy is predicated on our belief that wireless service providers will continue to invest in their networks in both our domestic
and international markets, driving demand for our communications sites.



•Domestic wireless network investments.According to industry data, aggregate annual wireless capital spending in the United States has
historically been approximately $25 to $30 billion resulting in consistent demand for our sites. Demand for our domestic communications sites is driven by:



•Wireless service provider focus on network quality and resulting investments in coverage and capacity of their network;



•Subscriber adoption of advanced wireless data applications such as email and internet and the corresponding deployments of advanced wireless networks
by wireless service providers to satisfy this incremental demand for high-bandwidth wireless data;



•Deployment of newly acquired spectrum; and



•Deployment of wireless and backhaul networks by new market entrants.

As these factors continue to grow as a competitive necessity in the United States on a widespread basis, wireless service providers may
be compelled to deploy new technology and equipment, further increase the cell density of their existing networks and expand their network coverage.



•International wireless network investments.The wireless networks in the international markets we serve are typically less advanced than those
in our domestic market with respect to the density of voice networks and the current technologies generally deployed for wireless services. Accordingly, demand for our international communications sites is primarily driven by:



•Incumbent wireless service providers investing in existing voice networks to improve or expand their coverage and increase capacity;



•In certain of our international markets, subscriber adoption of wireless data applications, such as email, internet and video; and



•Spectrum auctions, which result in new market entrants, as well as initial data network deployments.

We believe demand for our communications sites will continue as wireless service providers seek to increase the quality, coverage area
and capacity of their existing networks, while also investing in next generation data networks. To meet these network objectives, we believe wireless carriers will continue to outsource their communications site infrastructure needs as a means to
accelerate access to their markets and more efficiently use their capital, rather than construct and operate their own communications sites and maintain







their own communications site operation and development capabilities. In addition, because our network development services are complementary to our rental and management business, we believe
demand for our network development services will continue, consistent with industry trends.

Our customer demand could be
adversely affected by the emergence and growth of new technologies, which could make it possible for wireless carriers to increase the capacity and efficiency of their existing networks. The increased use of spectrally efficient technologies and/or
the availability of significant incremental spectrum in the marketplace could potentially relieve a portion of our tenants’ network capacity problems, and as a result, could reduce the demand for tower-based antenna space. Additionally, certain
complementary network technologies, such as small cell deployments, could shift a portion of our tenants’ network investment away from the traditional tower-based networks, which may reduce the need for carriers to add more equipment at certain
communications sites.

In addition, any increase in the use of network sharing, roaming or resale arrangements by wireless
service providers could adversely affect customer demand for tower space. These arrangements enable a provider to serve its customers outside its license area, to give licensed providers the right to enter into arrangements to serve overlapping
license areas, and to permit non-licensed providers to enter the wireless marketplace. Consolidation among wireless carriers could similarly impact customer demand for our communications sites because the existing networks of wireless carriers often
overlap. In addition, if wireless carriers share their sites or permit equipment location swapping on their sites with other carriers to a significant degree, it could reduce demand for our communications sites. Further, our tenants may be subject
to new regulatory policies from time to time that may materially and adversely affect the demand for our communications sites.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we employed 2,432 full-time individuals and consider our employee relations to
be satisfactory.

Available Information

Our Internet website address iswww.americantower.com. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into
this Annual Report, and you should not consider information contained on our website as part of this Annual Report. You may access, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, plus
amendments to such reports as filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), through the “Investors” portion of our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

We have adopted a written Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Policy (“Code of Conduct”) that applies to all of our employees and directors, including, but not limited to, our principal
executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Conduct, our corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the audit, compensation and
nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors are available at the “Investors” portion of our website. In the event we amend the provisions of our Code of Conduct, or provide any waivers under the Code of Conduct
for our directors or executive officers, we intend to disclose these events on our website as required by the regulations of the New York Stock Exchange and applicable law.

In addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing us at the following address: 116 Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02116, Attention: Investor Relations; or by
calling us at (617) 375-7500.







