ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading wireless and broadcast communications infrastructure company that owns, operates and develops communications sites. Our primary business is leasing antenna space on multi-tenant
communications sites to wireless service providers, radio and television broadcast companies, wireless data providers, government agencies and municipalities and tenants in a number of other industries. We refer to this business as our rental and
management operations, which accounted for approximately 98% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. We also offer tower-related services domestically, including site acquisition, zoning and permitting services and
structural analysis services, which primarily support our site leasing business and the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. We began operating as a REIT for federal income tax purposes effective January 1, 2012.

Our communications site portfolio includes wireless and broadcast communications towers and distributed antenna system (“DAS”)
networks, which are collocation solutions to support seamless in-building and outdoor wireless coverage. Our portfolio consists of towers that we own and towers that we operate pursuant to long-term lease arrangements, including, as of
December 31, 2011, approximately 21,320 towers domestically and approximately 23,900 towers internationally. In addition, our portfolio also includes approximately 260 DAS networks that we operate in malls, casinos and other in-building
applications, and select outdoor environments. In addition to the communications sites in our portfolio, we manage rooftop and tower sites for property owners under various contractual arrangements. We also hold property interests that we lease to
communications service providers and third-party tower operators under approximately 1,810 communications sites.

American
Tower Corporation was originally created as a subsidiary of American Radio Systems Corporation in 1995 and was spun off into a free-standing public company in 1998. Since inception, we have grown our communications site portfolio through
acquisitions, long-term lease arrangements and site development.

American Tower Corporation is a holding company, and we
conduct our operations through our directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures. Our principal domestic operating subsidiaries are American Towers LLC and SpectraSite Communications, LLC. We conduct our international operations
through our subsidiary, American Tower International, Inc., which in turn conducts operations through its various international operating subsidiaries and joint ventures. Our international operations consist primarily of our operations in Brazil,
Chile, Colombia, Ghana, India, Mexico, Peru and South Africa. In addition, as previously disclosed, we have entered into a definitive agreement to acquire communications sites in Uganda, and subject to customary closing conditions, we expect to
close on the initial tranches of communications sites during the first half of 2012.

Our continuing operations are reported
in three segments, domestic rental and management, international rental and management and network development services. For more information about our business segments, as well as financial information about the geographic areas in which we
operate, see Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual
Report.

In May 2011, we announced our intention to reorganize to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes (which we
refer to as the “REIT Conversion”). As part of the REIT Conversion, effective December 31, 2011, we completed the merger with our predecessor that was approved by our stockholders in November 2011. At the time of the merger all
outstanding shares of our Class A common stock were converted into a right to receive an equal number of shares of common stock of the surviving corporation. Accordingly, references herein to our “common stock” refer to our common
stock and the Class A common stock of our predecessor, as applicable.







We hold and operate certain of our assets through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries
(“TRSs”). A TRS is a subsidiary of a REIT that is subject to applicable corporate income tax. Our use of TRSs enables us to continue to engage in certain businesses while complying with REIT qualification requirements and also allows us to
retain income generated by these businesses for reinvestment without the requirement of distributing those earnings. The non-REIT qualified businesses that we hold through TRSs include our network development services segment. In addition, we have
included our international operations and DAS networks business within our TRSs. In the future, we may elect to reorganize and transfer certain assets or operations, such as our international operations, from our TRSs to other subsidiaries,
including qualified REIT subsidiaries.

As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income taxes on our income and
gains that we distribute to our stockholders, including the income derived from leasing towers. However, even as a REIT, we will remain obligated to pay income taxes on earnings from all or a portion of our TRS assets. In addition, our international
assets and operations continue to be subject to taxation in the foreign jurisdictions where those assets are held or those operations are conducted.

As a REIT, we must annually distribute to our stockholders an amount equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income. Our REIT taxable income typically will not include income earned by our TRSs except
to the extent the TRSs pay dividends. Prior to the REIT Conversion, we operated as a C corporation. A REIT is not permitted to retain earnings and profits accumulated during the years it was taxed as a C corporation or accumulated by its TRSs that
have been converted to qualified REIT subsidiaries, and must make one or more distributions to stockholders that equal or exceed those accumulated amounts. In December 2011, we paid a one-time special cash distribution (“Pre-REIT
Distribution”) to our stockholders of approximately $137.8 million, or $0.35 per share of common stock.

We intend to
commence paying regular distributions in 2012. The amount, timing and frequency of future distributions, however, will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will be declared based upon various factors, many of which are beyond our
control, including, our financial condition and operating cash flows, the amount required to maintain REIT status and reduce any income and excise taxes that we otherwise would be required to pay, limitations on distributions in our existing and
future debt instruments, our ability to utilize net operating losses (“NOLs”) to offset, in whole or in part, our distribution requirements, limitations on our ability to fund distributions using cash generated through our TRSs and other
factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant.

Products and Services

Rental and Management Operations

Our rental and management operations accounted for approximately 98%, 98% and 97% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our tenants lease space on
our communications site infrastructure, where they install and maintain their individual communications network equipment. Our revenue is primarily generated from tenant leases, and the annual rental payments vary considerably depending upon
numerous factors, including, but not limited to, tower location, amount of tenant equipment on the tower, ground space required by the tenant and remaining tower capacity. Our tenant leases are typically non-cancellable and have annual rent
escalations. Our primary costs typically include ground rent (which is primarily fixed, with annual cost escalations), property taxes and repairs and maintenance. In most of our international markets, a portion of our operating costs is passed
through to our tenants, such as ground rent or fuel costs. Our rental and management operations have generated consistent incremental growth in revenue and have low cash flow volatility due to the following characteristics:



•Consistent demand for our sites.As a result of wireless industry capital spending trends in the markets we serve, we anticipate consistent
demand for our communications sites due to their attractive locations. Additionally, we have the ability to add new tenants and new equipment for existing tenants on our sites. Our legacy site portfolio and our established tenant base provide us
with a solid platform for new business opportunities, which has historically resulted in consistent and predictable organic revenue growth.







•Long-term tenant leases with contractual rent escalations.In general, a tenant lease has an initial non-cancellable term of five to ten years
with multiple five-year renewal terms thereafter, and lease payments that typically increase based on a fixed escalation (approximately 3.5% per year in the U.S.) or inflationary index. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $18.5
billion of non-cancellable tenant lease revenue, absent the impact of straight-line lease accounting.



•High lease renewal rates.Our tenants tend to renew leases because suitable alternative sites may not exist or be available and repositioning a
site in their network may be expensive and may adversely affect the quality of their network. Historical churn has been approximately 1-2% of total rental and management revenue per year. We define churn as revenue lost when a tenant cancels or does
not renew its lease, and in very limited circumstances, such as a tenant bankruptcy, reductions in lease rates on existing leases. We derive our historical churn rate for a given year by dividing our revenue lost on this basis by our rental and
management segment revenue.



•High operating leverage.Incremental operating costs associated with adding new tenants to an existing communications site are relatively
minimal. Therefore, as additional tenants are added, the substantial majority of incremental revenue flows through to operating profit. In addition, in our international markets certain expenses, such as ground rent or fuel costs, are passed through
to our tenants.



•Low maintenance capital expenditures.On average, we require relatively low amounts of annual capital expenditures to maintain our
communications sites.

Our domestic rental and management segment is comprised of our nationwide network of
communications sites that enables us to address the needs of national, regional, local and emerging communications service providers in the U.S. Our domestic rental and management segment also includes property interests that we lease to
communications service providers and third-party tower operators. Our domestic rental and management segment accounted for approximately 72%, 79% and 82% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Our international rental and management segment, which is comprised primarily of communications sites in Brazil, Chile,
Colombia, Ghana, India, Mexico, Peru and South Africa, provides a source of diversification and growth. Our international rental and management segment accounted for approximately 26%, 19% and 15% of our total revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Our rental and management operations include the operation of wireless
and broadcast communications towers and DAS networks, rooftop management and the leasing of property interests.

Communications Towers.We own and operate communications towers in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ghana, India,
Mexico, Peru and South Africa. Approximately 98% of revenue in our rental and management segments was attributable to our communications towers for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

We lease space on our communications towers to tenants providing a diverse range of communications services, including personal
communications services, cellular, broadcasting, enhanced specialized mobile radio, WiMAX, paging and fixed microwave. Our top domestic and international tenants by revenue are as follows:



•Domestic:AT&T Mobility, Sprint Nextel, Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile USA accounted for approximately 74% of domestic rental and management
segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011.



•International:Iusacell (Mexico), Nextel International (through its operating subsidiaries in Brazil, Chile and Mexico), Telefónica
(through its operating subsidiaries in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru), MTN Group Limited (in Ghana and South Africa) and Vodafone (in India, Ghana and South Africa) accounted for approximately 53% of international rental and management
segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011.







Accordingly, we are subject to certain risks, as set forth in Item 1A of this Annual
Report under the caption “Risk Factors—Due to the long-term expectations of revenue growth from tenant leases, we are sensitive to changes in the creditworthiness and financial strength of our tenants” and “A substantial portion
of our revenue is derived from a small number of tenants.” In addition, we are subject to risks related to our international operations, as set forth under the caption “Risk Factors—Our foreign operations are subject to economic,
political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.”

DAS Networks, Rooftop Management and Property Interests.In addition to our communications sites, we also own and operate DAS
networks, provide communications site management services to third parties and manage and/or lease property interests under carrier or other third-party communications sites.



•DAS Networks.We own and operate approximately 260 DAS networks in malls, casinos and other in-building applications in the United States,
Mexico and Brazil. We obtain rights from property owners to install and operate in-building DAS networks, and we grant rights to wireless service providers to attach their equipment to our installations. We also offer outdoor DAS networks as a
complementary shared infrastructure solution for our tenants, and currently operate such networks in the United States. Typically, we design, build and operate our DAS networks in areas in which zoning restrictions or other barriers may prevent or
delay deployment of more traditional wireless communications sites.



•Rooftop Management.We provide management services to property owners in the United States who own rooftops that are capable of hosting wireless
communications equipment. We obtain rights to manage a rooftop by entering into contracts with property owners pursuant to which we receive a percentage of occupancy or license fees paid by the wireless carriers and other tenants.



•Property Interests.We own a portfolio of property interests in the United States under approximately 1,810 carrier or other third-party
communications sites, which provides recurring cash flow under complementary leasing arrangements.

Network Development Services

Through our network development services segment, we offer tower-related services domestically, including site acquisition, zoning and permitting services and structural analysis services, which primarily
support our site leasing business and the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. This segment accounted for approximately 2%, 2% and 3% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Site Acquisition, Zoning and Permitting. We engage in site acquisition services on our own behalf in connection with
our tower development projects, as well as on behalf of our tenants. We typically work with our tenants’ engineers to determine the geographic areas where new tower sites will best address the tenants’ needs and meet their coverage
objectives. Once a new site is identified, we acquire the rights to the land or structure on which the site will be constructed, and we manage the permitting process to ensure all necessary approvals are obtained to construct and operate the
communications site.

Structural Analysis.We offer structural analysis services to wireless carriers in connection
with the installation of their communications equipment on our towers. Our team of engineers can evaluate whether a tower structure can support the additional burden of the new equipment or if an upgrade is needed, which enables our tenants to
better assess potential sites before making an installation decision. Our structural analysis capabilities enable us to provide higher quality service to our existing tenants by, among other things, reducing the time required to achieve operational
readiness, as well as providing opportunities to offer structural analysis services to third parties.







Strategy

Operational Strategy

Our operational strategy is to capitalize on the growth in the use of wireless communications services and the evolution of advanced wireless handsets, tablets and other mobile devices, as well as the
expanding infrastructure required to deploy current and future generations of wireless communications technologies. To achieve this, our primary focus is to increase the leasing of our existing communications site portfolio, invest in and
selectively grow our communications site portfolio, further improve upon our operational performance and maintain a strong balance sheet. We believe these efforts will further support and maximize our ability to capitalize on the growth in demand
for wireless infrastructure.



•Increase the leasing of our existing communications site portfolio.We believe that our highest returns will be achieved by leasing additional
space on our existing communications sites. As a result of wireless industry capital spending trends in the markets we serve, we anticipate consistent demand for our communications sites because they are attractively located for wireless service
providers and have capacity available for additional tenants. As of December 31, 2011, we had an average of approximately 2.1 tenants per tower. We believe that, of our towers that are currently at or near full structural capacity, the vast
majority can be upgraded or augmented to meet future tenant demand with relatively modest capital investment. Therefore, we will continue to target our sales and marketing activities to increase the utilization and return on investment of our
existing communications sites.



•Invest in and selectively grow our communications site portfolio.We seek opportunities to invest and grow our operations through our capital
programs and acquisitions. We believe we can achieve attractive risk adjusted returns by pursuing such investments. This includes pursuing opportunities to invest through new site construction and acquisitions in our domestic market and in select
international markets which we believe have a high-growth wireless industry and are attractive from a macroeconomic standpoint. In addition, we seek to secure property interests under our communications sites to improve operating margins as we
reduce our cash operating expense related to ground leases.



•Further improve on our operational performance.We will continue to seek opportunities to improve our operational performance throughout the
organization. This includes investing in our systems and people as we strive to improve our efficiencies and provide best in class service to our customers. To achieve this, we intend to continue to focus on customer service, such as reducing cycle
times for key functions, including lease processing and tower structural analysis.



•Maintain a strong balance sheet.We will continue to maintain our disciplined approach to managing our balance sheet. This includes maintaining
our net financial leverage ratio within a target range and ensuring ample liquidity is available to pursue our strategy. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $1.6 billion of available liquidity. We believe that our investment grade
ratings and our current level of net leverage provide us with consistent access to the capital markets and the ability to actively invest in our portfolio and pursue acquisition opportunities, while being an attractive services provider to tenants.

Capital Allocation Strategy

As a REIT, we must distribute an amount equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to stockholders. The objective of our
discretionary capital allocation strategy is to simultaneously increase recurring free cash flow per share and our return on invested capital. To achieve this, we expect to continue to deploy our discretionary capital, after our REIT distributions,
through our annual discretionary capital expenditure program, including land purchases and new site construction, and acquisitions. In addition, we intend to return our remaining excess discretionary capital, if any, to stockholders through
continuing our stock repurchase program or declaring special distributions from time to time. During 2011, we generated approximately $1.2 billion of cash provided by operating activities, which along with incremental debt, was used to fund nearly
$3.4 billion of investments, including approximately $523.0 million of capital expenditures, $2,320.7 million of acquisitions







and $437.4 million of stock repurchases, including commissions and fees. In December 2011, we also distributed approximately $137.8 million to stockholders in connection with the Pre-REIT
Distribution.



•Discretionary capital expenditure program.We will continue to invest in and expand our existing communications site portfolio through our
annual discretionary capital expenditure program. This includes capital expenditures associated with maintenance, increasing the capacity of our existing sites, and projects such as new site construction, land interest acquisitions and shared
generator installations. We believe we can achieve the highest incremental recurring free cash flow per share and returns on our invested capital through our discretionary capital expenditure program.



•Acquisitions.We will seek to pursue acquisitions of communications sites in our existing or new markets where we can meet our return on
investment criteria. When evaluating international investments, our return on investment criteria takes into consideration the additional risks inherent to the particular geographic area.



•Return excess discretionary capital to stockholders.If we have sufficient capital available to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements and
to fund our discretionary capital expenditures and acquisition opportunities, and we have access to capital available for anticipated future investment, we will seek to return any excess discretionary capital to stockholders. We currently utilize a
stock repurchase program to facilitate this return. However, we may also provide return to stockholders through the payment of special distributions as our Board of Directors deems appropriate.

International Expansion Strategy

We believe that, in certain international markets, we can create substantial value by establishing an independent wireless infrastructure leasing business. Therefore, we expect we will continue to seek
international expansion opportunities, where we expect our risk adjusted return objectives can be achieved. Our international expansion strategy includes a disciplined, individualized market evaluation, in which we conduct the following analyses:



•Country analysis.Prior to entering a new geographical area, we review the country’s political stability, historical and projected
macro-economic fundamentals and the general business environment, including property rights and regulatory environment.



•Wireless industry analysis.To ensure sufficient demand for an independent tower company, we analyze the competitiveness of the country’s
wireless industry and the stage of its wireless network deployment. Characteristics that result in an attractive investment opportunity include a country that has multiple competitive wireless service providers who are actively seeking to invest in
deploying voice and data networks, as well as participating in spectrum auctions that have or are anticipated to occur.



•Opportunity and counterparty analysis.Finally, once an investment opportunity is identified within a geographical area with a competitive
wireless industry, we conduct a multifaceted opportunity and counterparty analysis. This includes evaluating the type of transaction, its ability to meet our risk adjusted return criteria for the country and the counterparties involved, as well as
how the transaction fits within our long-term strategic objectives, including future potential investment and expansion within the region.

Growth and Expansion

In 2011, we continued
to focus on growing our operations using selective criteria for acquisitions, including expansion into new and existing international geographic areas, and new site development, consistent with our international expansion strategy. During the
year ended December 31, 2011, we grew our communications site portfolio through the acquisition and construction of approximately 10,430 towers, the acquisition of approximately 2,150 property interests, the installation of approximately 40
in-building and outdoor DAS networks and the installation of approximately 680 shared generators on our sites. In addition, we continue to







evaluate complementary services, such as providing high capacity fiber backhaul lines, to supplement our tower site growth and expansion strategy, as well as opportunities to acquire larger
communications site portfolios that we believe we can effectively integrate into our existing business.

United
States. During 2011, in response to the needs of our tenants, we pursued the acquisition and construction of communications sites in select locations throughout the United States. Our expansion in the United States during 2011 included the
acquisition and construction of approximately 430 towers, the acquisition of approximately 2,150 property interests, the installation of approximately 40 in-building and outdoor DAS networks and the installation of approximately 680 shared
generators on our sites.

International. During 2011, we expanded our international footprint as we acquired and
constructed approximately 3,230 communications sites in two new countries, Ghana and South Africa. Our expansion during 2011 also included the acquisition and construction of approximately 6,770 communications sites in our existing markets in
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, India and Mexico. In December 2011, we announced the launch of operations in Uganda and our entry into a definitive agreement for the establishment of a joint venture with MTN Group Limited. Subject to customary closing
conditions, we expect to close on the initial tranches of communications sites in Uganda, and additional tranches of communications sites in Colombia and Mexico during the first half of 2012.

Regulatory Matters

Towers and Antennas.Our domestic and international tower business is subject to national, state and local regulatory requirements with respect to the registration, siting, lighting, marking and maintenance of our towers. In the United States, which accounted for
approximately 73% of our total rental and management revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011, the construction of new towers or modifications to existing towers may require pre-approval by the Federal Communications Commission
(“FCC”) and the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), depending on factors such as tower height and proximity to public airfields. Towers requiring pre-approval must be registered with the FCC and painted, lighted and
maintained in accordance with FAA standards. Similar requirements regarding pre-approval of the construction and modification of towers are imposed by regulators in other countries. Non-compliance with applicable tower-related requirements may lead
to monetary penalties or deconstruction orders.

Furthermore, in India, each of our subsidiaries holds an Infrastructure
Provider Category-I license (“IP-I”) issued by the Indian Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, which permits us to provide tower space to companies licensed as telecommunications service providers under the Indian
Telegraph Act of 1885. While we are required to provide tower space on a non-discriminatory basis, we may negotiate mutually agreeable terms and conditions with such service providers. As a condition to the IP-I, the Indian government has
the right to take over telecommunications infrastructure in the case of emergency or war. In Ghana, our subsidiary holds a Communications Infrastructure License, issued by the National Communications Authority (“NCA”), which permits us to
establish and maintain passive telecommunications infrastructure services for communications service providers licensed by the NCA. While we are required to provide tower space on a non-discriminatory basis, we may negotiate mutually agreeable
terms and conditions with such service providers.

Our international business operations may be subject to increased licensing
fees or ownership restrictions. For example, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India has recently recommended to the Department of Telecommunications changes in annual licensing fees for tower companies based on revenues generated, as well as the
potential implementation of restrictions or limitations on foreign ownership. Certain municipalities in Brazil and India have sought to impose certain permit fees based upon structural or operational requirements of towers. In addition, our foreign
operations may be affected if a country’s regulatory authority restricts or revokes spectrum licenses of certain wireless service providers.

In all countries where we operate, we are subject to zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by local authorities or community developers. These regulations vary, but typically require tower
owners and/or our tenants to obtain approval from local authorities or community standards organizations prior to tower







construction or the addition of a new antenna to an existing tower. Local zoning authorities and community residents often oppose construction in their communities, which can delay or prevent new
tower construction, new antenna installation or site upgrade projects, thereby limiting our ability to respond to customer demand. In addition, zoning regulations can increase costs associated with new tower construction, tower modifications,
additions of new antennas to a site or site upgrades. Existing regulatory policies may adversely affect the associated timing or cost of such projects and additional regulations may be adopted that cause delays or result in additional costs to us.
These factors could materially and adversely affect our construction activities and operations. In the United States, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits any action by state and local authorities that would discriminate between different
providers of wireless services or ban altogether the construction, modification or placement of communications sites. It also prohibits state or local restrictions based on the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent the
facilities comply with FCC regulations.

In addition, our tenants, both domestic and international, may be subject to new
regulatory policies from time to time that may materially and adversely affect the demand for communications sites.

Environmental Matters.Our domestic and international operations, like those of other companies engaged in similar businesses, are
subject to various national, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances, materials and
wastes, and the siting of our towers. As an owner, lessee and/or operator of real property and facilities, we may have liability under environmental laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by
hazardous substances or waste. Certain of these laws impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether we, as the owner, lessee or operator, knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination, and whether or not we have
discontinued operations or sold the property. We also may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from off-site migration of contamination. We may be required to obtain permits, pay additional property
taxes, comply with regulatory requirements, and make certain informational filings related to hazardous substances and devices used to provide power such as batteries, generators and fuel at our sites. Violations of these types of regulations could
subject us to fines or criminal sanctions.

Additionally, in the United States, before constructing a new tower or adding a
new antenna to an existing site, we must review and evaluate the impact of the action to determine whether it may significantly affect the environment and we must disclose any significant impacts in an environmental assessment. If a tower or new
antenna might have a material adverse impact on the environment, FCC approval of the tower or antenna could be significantly delayed.

Health and Safety.In the United States and in other countries where we operate, we are subject to various national, state and local laws regarding employee health and safety, including protection
from radio frequency exposure.

Competition

Our rental and management segments compete with other public tower companies, such as Crown Castle International Corp. and SBA
Communications Corporation, wireless carrier tower consortiums such as Indus Towers, Viom Networks and GTL, and private tower companies, independent wireless carriers, tower owners, broadcasters and owners of non-communications sites, including
rooftops, utility towers, water towers and other alternative structures. We believe that site location and capacity, network density, price and quality of service have been and will continue to be significant competitive factors affecting owners,
operators and managers of communications sites.

Our network development services segment competes with a variety of companies
offering individual, or combinations of, competing services. The field of competitors includes site acquisition consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consultants, structural engineering firms, tower owners/managers,







telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide turnkey site development services through multiple subcontractors and our tenants’ internal staffs. We believe that our tenants base
their decisions for network development services on various criteria, including a company’s experience, local reputation, price and time for completion of a project.

Customer Demand

Our strategy is predicated
on our belief that wireless service providers will continue to invest in their networks in both our domestic and international markets, driving demand for our communications sites.



•Domestic wireless network investments.Historically, according to industry data, aggregate annual wireless capital spending in the United States
has typically been approximately $20 to $25 billion. As a result of this level of capital spending, demand for our sites has remained consistent. Accordingly, demand for our domestic communications sites is driven by:



•Wireless service provider focus on network quality and coverage as a competitive advantage;



•Subscriber adoption of third generation (“3G”) wireless data applications, such as email, internet and video;



•Pursuit of new avenues for growth by wireless service providers, such as deploying fourth generation (“4G”) technology to provide higher
speed data services which will enable mobile applications and fixed broadband substitution; and



•Deployment of wireless networks by new market entrants.

As these factors continue to grow as a competitive necessity in the United States on a widespread basis, wireless service providers may be compelled to deploy new technology and equipment, further
increase the cell density of their existing networks and expand their network coverage.



•International wireless network investments.The wireless networks in the international markets we serve are typically less advanced than those
in our domestic market, with respect to the density of voice networks and the current technologies generally deployed for wireless services. Accordingly, demand for our international communications sites is primarily driven by:



•Incumbent wireless service providers investing in existing voice networks to improve or expand their coverage and increase capacity;



•In certain of our international markets, subscriber adoption of 3G wireless data applications, such as email, internet and video; and



•Spectrum auctions, which result in new market entrants, as well as initial data network deployments.

We believe demand for our communications sites will continue as wireless service providers seek to increase the quality, coverage area
and capacity of their existing networks, while also investing in next generation data networks. To meet these network objectives, we believe wireless carriers will continue to outsource their communications site infrastructure needs as a means to
accelerate access to their markets and more efficiently use their capital, rather than construct and operate their own communications sites and maintain their own communications site operation and development capabilities. In addition, because our
network development services are complementary to our wireless infrastructure business, we believe demand for our network development services will continue, consistent with industry trends.

Our customer demand could be adversely affected by the emergence and growth of new technologies, which could make it possible for
wireless carriers to increase the capacity and efficiency of their existing networks. The increased use of spectrally efficient technologies, could potentially relieve a portion of our tenants’ network capacity problems, and as a result, could
reduce the demand for tower-based antenna space. Additionally, certain







complementary network technologies, such as femtocells and WiFi, could offload a portion of our tenants’ network traffic away from the traditional tower-based networks, which could also
reduce the need for carriers to add more equipment at certain communications sites.

In addition, any increase in the use of
network sharing, roaming or resale arrangements by wireless service providers could adversely affect customer demand for tower space. These arrangements enable a provider to serve its customers outside its license area, to give licensed providers
the right to enter into arrangements to serve overlapping license areas, and to permit non-licensed providers to enter the wireless marketplace. Consolidation among wireless carriers could similarly impact customer demand for our communications
sites, because the existing networks of wireless carriers often overlap. In addition, if wireless carriers share their sites or permit equipment location swapping on their sites with other carriers to a significant degree, it could reduce demand for
our communications sites.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we employed 2,122 full-time individuals and consider our employee relations to be satisfactory.

Available Information

Our Internet website
address iswww.americantower.com. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, and you should not consider information contained on our website as part of this Annual Report. You may access,
free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, plus amendments to such reports as filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (“Exchange Act”), through the Investors portion of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

We have adopted a written Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (“Code of Conduct”) that applies to all of our
employees and directors, including, but not limited to, our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Conduct, our corporate
governance guidelines and the charters of the audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors are available at the “Investors” portion of our website. In the event we amend the provisions of
our Code of Conduct, or provide any waivers under the Code of Conduct for our directors or executive officers, we intend to disclose these events on our website as required by the regulations of the New York Stock Exchange and applicable law.

In addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing us at the following address: 116
Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02116, Attention: Investor Relations; or by calling us at (617) 375-7500.



