ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading independent owner, operator and developer of wireless and broadcast communications real estate. Our
primary business is leasing antenna space on multi-tenant communications sites to wireless service providers, radio and television broadcast companies, wireless data and data providers, government agencies and municipalities and tenants in a number
of other industries. We refer to this business as our rental and management operations, which accounted for approximately 98% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. Through our network development services, we offer
tower-related services domestically, including site acquisition, zoning and permitting services and structural analysis services, which primarily support our site leasing business and the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. Since
January 1, 2012, we have been organized and have qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.

Our communications
real estate portfolio of 67,418 communications sites, as of December 31, 2013, includes wireless and broadcast communications towers and distributed antenna system (“DAS”) networks, which provide seamless coverage solutions in certain
in-building and outdoor wireless environments. Our portfolio primarily consists of towers that we own and towers that we operate pursuant to long-term lease arrangements, including, as of December 31, 2013, 27,739 towers domestically and 39,330
towers internationally. Our portfolio also includes 349 DAS networks. In addition to the communications sites in our portfolio, we manage rooftop and tower sites for property owners under various contractual arrangements and hold property interests
that we lease to communications service providers and third-party tower operators.

American Tower Corporation was originally
created as a subsidiary of American Radio Systems Corporation in 1995 and was spun off into a free-standing public company in 1998. Since inception, we have grown our communications real estate portfolio through acquisitions, long-term lease
arrangements and site development. In October 2013, we significantly expanded our portfolio through our acquisition of MIP Tower Holdings LLC (“MIPT”), a private REIT and parent company to Global Tower Partners (“GTP”), an owner
and operator of approximately 5,370 communications sites, through its various operating subsidiaries, in the United States, Costa Rica and Panama. GTP also manages rooftops and holds property interests that it leases to communications service
providers and third-party tower operators. We believe the acquisition provides us with key strategic and financial advantages, due to the high quality of the assets, which are in locations complementary to our portfolio. For more information on our
acquisition of MIPT, see note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

We are a holding
company and conduct our operations through our directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures. Our principal domestic operating subsidiaries are American Towers LLC and SpectraSite Communications, LLC. We conduct our international
operations through our subsidiary, American Tower International, Inc., which in turn conducts operations through its various international holding and operating subsidiaries and joint ventures. Our international operations consist of our operations
in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Germany, Ghana, India, Mexico, Panama, Peru, South Africa and Uganda.

Our continuing
operations are reported in three segments: domestic rental and management, international rental and management and network development services. For more information about our business segments, as well as financial information about the geographic
areas in which we operate, see Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and note 21 to our consolidated financial statements included
in this Annual Report.

We hold and operate certain of our assets through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries
(“TRSs”). The non-REIT qualified businesses that we hold through TRSs include most of our network development services segment. In addition, we have included most of our international operations and managed networks business within our
TRSs.







We may, from time to time, change the election of previously designated TRSs to be treated
as qualified REIT subsidiaries or other disregarded entities (“QRSs”), and may reorganize and transfer certain assets or operations from our TRSs to other subsidiaries, including QRSs. We changed the previous TRS election for certain of
our Mexican subsidiaries to be treated as QRSs as of March 1, 2013. In addition, we restructured certain of our domestic TRSs to be treated as QRSs as of January 1, 2014.

Products and Services

Rental and
Management Operations

Our rental and management operations accounted for approximately 98%, 97% and 98% of our total
revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our tenants lease space on our communications site real estate, where they install and maintain their individual communications network equipment. Our revenue is
primarily generated from tenant leases. The annual rental payments vary considerably depending upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, tower location, amount and type of tenant equipment on the tower, ground space required by the
tenant and remaining tower capacity. Our tenant leases are typically non-cancellable and have annual rent escalations. Our primary costs typically include ground rent (which is primarily fixed, with annual cost escalations), property taxes and
repairs and maintenance. Our rental and management operations have generated consistent incremental growth in revenue and have low cash flow volatility due to the following characteristics:



•Consistent demand for our sites.As a result of wireless industry capital spending trends in the markets we serve, we anticipate consistent
demand for our communications sites. We believe that our global asset base, including the assets acquired as part of our acquisition of MIPT, which are predominately located in key markets and have minimal overlap with our preexisting sites,
positions us well to benefit from the increasing demand of global wireless services. We have the ability to add new tenants and new equipment for existing tenants on our sites, which typically results in incremental revenue. Our legacy site
portfolio and our established tenant base provide us with a solid platform for new business opportunities, which has historically resulted in consistent and predictable organic revenue growth.



•Long-term tenant leases with contractual rent escalations.In general, a tenant lease has an initial non-cancellable five to ten year term with
multiple five-year renewal terms, and lease payments that typically increase based on a fixed escalation (approximately 3.0%-3.5% per year in the United States) or an inflationary index in our international markets. Based upon foreign currency
exchange rates and tenant leases in place as of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $23 billion of non-cancellable tenant lease revenue over future periods, absent the impact of straight-line lease accounting.



•High lease renewal rates.Our tenants tend to renew leases because suitable alternative sites may not exist or be available and repositioning a
site in their network may be expensive and may adversely affect the quality of their network. Churn has been approximately 1%-2% of total rental and management revenue per year. We define churn as revenue lost when a tenant cancels or does not renew
its lease, and in limited circumstances, such as a tenant bankruptcy, reductions in lease rates on existing leases. We derive our churn rate for a given year by dividing our revenue lost on this basis by our comparable year ago period rental and
management segment revenue.



•High operating margins.Incremental operating costs associated with adding new tenants to an existing communications site are relatively
minimal. Therefore, as tenants are added, the substantial majority of incremental revenue flows through to operating profit. In addition, in many of our international markets certain expenses, such as ground rent or fuel costs, are passed through to
our tenants.



•Low maintenance capital expenditures.On average, we require relatively low amounts of annual capital expenditures to maintain our
communications sites.







Our domestic rental and management segment is comprised of our nationwide network of
communications sites that enable us to address the needs of national, regional, local and emerging communications service providers in the United States, as well as customers in a number of other industries. Our domestic rental and management
segment also includes property interests that we lease to communications service providers and third-party tower operators. Our domestic rental and management segment accounted for approximately 65%, 67% and 72% of our total revenues for the years
ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Our international rental and management segment, which is
comprised of communications sites in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Germany, Ghana, India, Mexico, Panama, Peru, South Africa and Uganda, provides a source of growth and diversification, including exposure to markets in various stages of
wireless network development. Our international rental and management segment accounted for approximately 33%, 30% and 26% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Our rental and management operations include the operation of wireless and broadcast communications towers and managed networks, rooftop
management, the leasing of property interests and the provision of backup power through shared generators domestically.

Communications Towers.Approximately 96%, 96% and 98% of revenue in our rental and management segments was attributable to our
communications towers for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

We lease real estate on our
communications towers to tenants providing a diverse range of communications services, including personal communications services, cellular voice and data, broadcasting, enhanced specialized mobile radio and fixed microwave. Our top domestic
and international tenants by revenue are as follows:



•Domestic:AT&T Mobility, Sprint Nextel, Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile USA accounted for an aggregate of approximately 83% of domestic rental
and management segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013.



•International:Telefónica (in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Germany, Mexico, Panama and Peru), MTN Group Limited (in Ghana,
South Africa and Uganda), Nextel International (in Brazil, Chile and Mexico), Grupo Iusacell, S.A. de C.V. (in Mexico) and Vodafone (in Germany, Ghana, India and South Africa), accounted for an aggregate of approximately 55% of international rental
and management segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013.

Accordingly, we are subject to
certain risks, as set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors—A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of tenants, and we are sensitive to changes in the creditworthiness and
financial strength of our tenants.” In addition, we are subject to risks related to our international operations, as set forth under the caption “Risk Factors—Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks
that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.”

Managed Networks, Property Interests and Shared Generators.In addition to our communications sites, we also own and operate several types of managed network solutions, provide communications site
management services to third parties, manage and/or lease property interests under carrier or other third-party communications sites and provide back-up power sources to tenants at our sites.



•Managed Networks.We own and operate 349 DAS networks primarily in malls and casinos in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Ghana, India and
Mexico. We obtain rights from property owners to install and operate in-building DAS networks, and we grant rights to wireless service providers to attach their equipment to our installations. We also offer outdoor DAS networks as a complementary
shared infrastructure solution for our tenants, and currently operate such networks in the United States. Typically, we design, build and operate our DAS networks in areas in which zoning restrictions or







other barriers may prevent or delay deployment of more traditional wireless communications sites. We are also currently evaluating other complementary network strategies, such as small cell
deployments. In addition, we provide management services to property owners in the United States and certain international markets who own rooftops capable of hosting wireless communications equipment. We obtain rights to manage a rooftop by
entering into a contract with a property owner pursuant to which we receive a percentage of occupancy or license fees paid to that property owner by the wireless carriers and other tenants. As the demand for advanced wireless devices in urban
markets evolves, we continue to evaluate infrastructure that may support our tenants’ networks in these areas.



•Property Interests.We own a portfolio of property interests in the United States under carrier or other third-party communications sites, which
provides recurring cash flow under complementary leasing arrangements.



•Shared Generators.We contract with certain of our tenants for the right to use shared backup power generators at a number of our sites in
the United States.

Network Development Services

Through our network development services segment, we offer tower-related services domestically, including site acquisition, zoning and
permitting services and structural analysis services, which primarily support our site leasing business and the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. This segment accounted for approximately 2%, 3% and 2% of our total revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Site Acquisition, Zoning and Permitting. We engage in
site acquisition services on our own behalf in connection with our tower development projects, as well as on behalf of our tenants. We typically work with our tenants’ engineers to determine the geographic areas where new tower sites will best
address the tenants’ needs and meet their coverage objectives. Once a new site is identified, we acquire the rights to the land or structure on which the site will be constructed, and we manage the permitting process to ensure all necessary
approvals are obtained to construct and operate the communications site.

Structural Analysis.We offer structural
analysis services to wireless carriers in connection with the installation of their communications equipment on our towers. Our team of engineers can evaluate whether a tower structure can support the additional burden of the new equipment or if an
upgrade is needed, which enables our tenants to better assess potential sites before making an installation decision. Our structural analysis capabilities enable us to provide higher quality service to our existing tenants by, among other things,
reducing the time required to achieve operational readiness, while also providing opportunities to offer structural analysis services to third parties.

Strategy

Operational Strategy

Our operational strategy is to capitalize on the global growth in the use of wireless communications services and the
evolution of advanced wireless handsets, tablets and other mobile devices, and the corresponding expansion of communications infrastructure required to deploy current and future generations of wireless communications technologies. To achieve this,
our primary focus is to (i) increase the leasing of our existing communications real estate portfolio, (ii) invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio, (iii) further improve upon our operational
performance and (iv) maintain a strong balance sheet. We believe these efforts will further support and enhance our ability to capitalize on the growth in demand for wireless infrastructure.



•Increase the leasing of our existing communications real estate portfolio.We believe that our highest returns will be achieved by leasing
additional space on our existing communications sites. Increasing demand for wireless services in the United States and in our international markets has







resulted in significant capital spending by major wireless carriers. As a result, we anticipate consistent demand for our communications sites because they are attractively located for wireless
service providers and have capacity available for additional tenants. In the United States, incremental carrier capital spending is being driven primarily by the build-out of fourth generation (4G) networks, while our international markets are
in various stages of network development. As of December 31, 2013, we had a global average of approximately 1.9 tenants per tower. We believe that many of our towers have capacity for additional tenants and that substantially all of our towers
that are currently at or near full structural capacity can be upgraded or augmented to meet future tenant demand with relatively modest capital investment. Therefore, we will continue to target our sales and marketing activities to increase the
utilization and return on investment of our existing communications sites.



•Invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio.We seek opportunities to invest in and grow our operations through our
capital programs and acquisitions, such as our acquisition of MIPT. We believe we can achieve attractive risk adjusted returns by pursuing such investments. This includes pursuing opportunities to invest in new site construction and acquisitions in
our domestic market and in select international markets that we believe have a competitive wireless industry, are attractive from a macroeconomic standpoint and have wireless carriers that are actively deploying wireless networks. In addition, we
seek to secure property interests under our communications sites to improve operating margins as we reduce our cash operating expense related to ground leases.



•Further improve upon our operational performance.We will continue to seek opportunities to improve our operational performance throughout the
organization. This includes investing in our systems and people as we strive to improve our efficiencies and provide superior service to our customers. To achieve this, we intend to continue to focus on customer service, such as reducing cycle times
for key functions, including lease processing and tower structural analysis. In addition, our acquisition of MIPT provided us with an opportunity to adopt best practices in an effort to further improve the efficiency of our operational performance.



•Maintain a strong balance sheet.We remain committed to our disciplined financial policies, which are the foundation of our balance sheet
management. We believe that these policies result in our ability to maintain a strong balance sheet and will support our overall strategy and focus on asset growth and operational excellence. As a result of these policies, we currently have
investment grade ratings. Our acquisition of MIPT resulted in an increase in our total debt and, as a result, we ended 2013 with our net leverage outside of our long-term target range. We remain committed to reducing our net leverage through a
combination of debt repayment and our continued growth. We continue to focus on maintaining a strong liquidity position and, as of December 31, 2013, had approximately $2.3 billion of available liquidity. We believe that our investment grade
ratings provide us consistent access to the capital markets and our liquidity provides us the ability to selectively invest in our portfolio.

Capital Allocation Strategy

The objective of our capital allocation
strategy is to simultaneously increase adjusted funds from operations and our return on invested capital. To maintain our REIT status we are required to distribute to our stockholders annually an amount equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable
income (determined before the deduction for distributed earnings and excluding any net capital gain). After complying with our REIT distribution requirements, we plan to continue to allocate our available capital among investment alternatives that
meet our return on investment criteria, while taking into account the repayment of debt to reduce our net leverage to be within our long-term target range. Accordingly, we expect to continue to deploy our capital through our annual capital
expenditure program, including land purchases and new site construction and acquisitions. In addition, we intend to return our remaining excess capital, if any, to stockholders through our stock repurchase program or by declaring special
distributions from time to time. During 2013, we generated $1.6 billion of cash from operating activities, which along with incremental debt, was used to fund nearly $5.2 billion of investments, including $4.5 billion of acquisitions and $724.5
million of







capital expenditures. In addition, in 2013, we repurchased $145.0 million, including commissions and fees, of our common stock and paid regular cash distributions in the aggregate of
approximately $434.7 million to our stockholders.



•Capital expenditure program.We will continue to invest in and expand our existing communications real estate portfolio through our annual
capital expenditure program. This includes capital expenditures associated with maintenance, increasing the capacity of our existing sites and projects such as new site construction, land interest acquisitions and shared generator installations.



•Acquisitions.We will seek to pursue acquisitions of communications sites in our existing or new markets where we can meet our risk adjusted
return on investment criteria. Our risk adjusted hurdle rates consider additional risks such as country risk, counter-party risk and product line risk.



•Return excess capital to stockholders.If we have sufficient capital available to (i) satisfy our REIT distribution requirements,
(ii) fund our capital expenditures, (iii) repay debt to reduce our net leverage ratio toward our targeted range and (iv) fund anticipated future investments, including acquisition opportunities, we will seek to return any excess
capital to stockholders. We typically have utilized a stock repurchase program to facilitate this return.

International Growth Strategy

We believe that, in certain international markets, we can create substantial value by either establishing a new, or expanding our existing, independent wireless real estate leasing business. Therefore, we
expect we will continue to seek international growth opportunities, where we believe our risk adjusted return objectives can be achieved. We strive to maintain a diversified approach to our international growth strategy by complementing our presence
in emerging markets with operations in more developed and established markets, which enables us to leverage multiple stages of wireless network development throughout our global footprint. Our international growth strategy includes a disciplined,
individualized market evaluation, in which we conduct the following analyses:



•Country analysis.Prior to entering a new market, we review the country’s historical and projected macroeconomic fundamentals and the
general business, political and legal environments, including property rights and regulatory regime.



•Wireless industry analysis.To ensure sufficient demand to support an independent tower company, we analyze the competitiveness of the
country’s wireless market and the stage of its wireless network development. Characteristics that result in an attractive investment opportunity include a country that has multiple competitive wireless service providers who are actively seeking
to invest in deploying voice and data networks, as well as deploying incremental spectrum from auctions that have occurred or are anticipated to occur.



•Opportunity and counterparty analysis.Once an investment opportunity is identified within a geographic area with a competitive wireless
industry, we conduct a multifaceted opportunity and counterparty analysis. This includes evaluating (i) the type of transaction, (ii) its ability to meet our risk adjusted return criteria given the country and the counterparties involved
and (iii) how the transaction fits within our long-term strategic objectives, including future potential investment and expansion within the region.

Recent Transactions

Acquisitions

From January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, we increased our communications site portfolio by
approximately 13,070 sites, including approximately 2,370 build-to-suits, and we believe the assets acquired will be accretive to our consolidated operating margins. Acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2013 included:



•We acquired approximately 880 communications sites in Mexico from Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V. (January 2013), approximately 1,480 communications sites in
Mexico from NII Holdings, Inc. (“NII”)







(November 2013) and approximately 1,940 communications sites in Brazil from NII (December 2013). These acquisitions strengthened our presence in our legacy markets by expanding our site portfolio
by nearly 30% in Latin America.



•Through our acquisition of approximately 5,370 communications sites from MIPT in October 2013, we expanded our domestic portfolio by over 20%, while
also expanding our footprint in Latin America. The acquisition augmented our presence in the top 100 U.S. BTAs where carriers have historically been most active in deploying their networks.



•Other acquisitions of an aggregate of approximately 1,030 communications sites in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ghana, Mexico, South Africa and the United
States.

We continue to evaluate potential complementary services to supplement our tower site growth and
expansion strategy, as well as opportunities to acquire larger communications real estate portfolios that we believe we can effectively integrate into our existing business. For more information about our acquisitions, see note 6 to our consolidated
financial statements included in this Annual Report.

Financing Transactions

During the year ended December 31, 2013, we raised capital, thereby increasing our financial flexibility and our ability to return
value to our stockholders. Significant financing transactions in 2013 included those set forth below. For more information about our financing transactions, see Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

Securitization.In March 2013, we completed a securitization transaction (the “Securitization”) involving assets related
to 5,195 wireless and broadcast communications towers (the “Secured Towers”) owned by two of our special purpose subsidiaries, through a private offering of $1.8 billion of Secured Tower Revenue Securities, Series 2013-1A and Series 2013-
2A (collectively, the “Securities”). We used the net proceeds from the Securitization to refinance the $1.75 billion of Commercial Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2007-1 issued in the securitization transaction completed in May
2007 (the “Certificates”).

Senior Notes Offerings.In January 2013, we completed a registered public
offering of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.50% senior unsecured notes due 2023 (the “3.50% Notes”). In August 2013, we completed a registered public offering of $750 million aggregate principal amount of 3.40% senior
unsecured notes due 2019 (the “3.40% Notes”) and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due 2024 (the “5.00% Notes”). We used the net proceeds from each of these notes offerings primarily to repay
certain indebtedness under our existing credit facilities.

Credit Facilities.We increased our borrowing capacity and
financial flexibility by entering into a multi-currency $1.5 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility in June 2013, which was subsequently increased to $2.0 billion (the “2013 Credit Facility”) and a 364-day $1.0 billion senior
unsecured revolving credit facility in September 2013 (the “Short-Term Credit Facility”). As a result, as of December 31, 2013, we had the ability to borrow up to $2.0 billion under our existing credit facilities, net of any
outstanding letters of credit. We also entered into a $1.5 billion unsecured term loan in October 2013 (the “2013 Term Loan”), and repaid our $750.0 million unsecured term loan entered into in June 2012 (the “2012 Term
Loan”).

Regulatory Matters

Towers and Antennas.Our domestic and international tower business is subject to national, state and local regulatory requirements with respect to the registration, siting, construction, lighting,
marking and maintenance of our towers. In the United States, which accounted for approximately 67% of our total rental and management







revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013, the construction of new towers or modifications to existing towers may require pre-approval by the Federal Communications Commission
(“FCC”) and the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), depending on factors such as tower height and proximity to public airfields. Towers requiring pre-approval must be registered with the FCC and maintained in accordance with
FAA standards. Similar requirements regarding pre-approval of the construction and modification of towers are imposed by regulators in other countries. Non-compliance with applicable tower-related requirements may lead to monetary penalties or site
deconstruction orders.

Furthermore, in India, each of our subsidiaries holds an Infrastructure Provider Category-I license
(“IP-I”) issued by the Indian Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, which permits us to provide tower space to companies licensed as telecommunications service providers under the Indian Telegraph Act of 1885. As a
condition to the IP-I, the Indian government has the right to take over telecommunications infrastructure in the case of emergency or war. In Ghana, our subsidiary holds a Communications Infrastructure License, issued by the National Communications
Authority (“NCA”), which permits us to establish and maintain passive telecommunications infrastructure services and DAS networks for communications service providers licensed by the NCA. While we are required to provide tower space
on a non-discriminatory basis, we may negotiate mutually agreeable terms and conditions with such service providers. In Chile, our subsidiary is classified as a Telecom Intermediate Service Provider. We have received a number of site specific
concessions and are working with the Chilean Subsecretaria de Telecommunicaciones to receive concessions on our remaining sites in Chile.

Our international business operations may be subject to increased licensing fees or ownership restrictions. For example, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India has recommended to the Indian Department
of Telecommunications changes in annual licensing fees for tower companies based on revenues generated, as well as the potential implementation of certain limitations on foreign ownership. To date, such changes have not been formally adopted. In
South Africa, the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, 2003 (the “BBBEE Act”) has established a legislative framework for the promotion of economic empowerment of South African citizens disadvantaged by Apartheid, and accordingly,
the BBBEE Act and related codes measure BBBEE Act compliance and good corporate practice by the inclusion of certain ownership, management control, employment equity and other metrics for companies that do business there. Certain municipalities in
Brazil and India have sought to impose permit fees based upon structural or operational requirements of towers. In addition, our foreign operations may be affected if a country’s regulatory authority restricts or revokes spectrum licenses of
certain wireless service providers.







Portions of our business are subject to additional regulations, for example, in a number of
states throughout the United States, certain of our subsidiaries hold Competitive Local Exchange Carrier (CLEC) or other status, in connection with the operation of our outdoor DAS networks business. In addition, we or our domestic and international
tenants may be subject to new regulatory policies in certain jurisdictions from time to time that may materially and adversely affect our business or the demand for our communications sites.

Environmental Matters.Our domestic and international operations are subject to various national, state and local environmental
laws and regulations, including those relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances, materials and wastes and the siting of our towers. We may be required to
obtain permits, pay additional property taxes, comply with regulatory requirements and make certain informational filings related to hazardous substances or devices used to provide power such as batteries, generators and fuel at our sites.
Violations of these types of regulations could subject us to fines or criminal sanctions.

Additionally, in the United States
and many other international markets where we do business, before constructing a new tower or adding an antenna to an existing site, we must review and evaluate the impact of the action to determine whether it may significantly affect the
environment and whether we must disclose any significant impacts in an environmental assessment. If a tower or new antenna might have a material adverse impact on the environment, FCC or other governmental approval of the tower or antenna could be
significantly delayed.

Health and Safety.In the United States and in other countries where we operate, we are subject
to various national, state and local laws regarding employee health and safety, including protection from radio frequency exposure.

Competition

We compete, both for new business and for the acquisition of assets, with other public tower companies,
such as Crown Castle International Corp., SBA Communications Corporation and GTL Infrastructure, wireless carrier tower consortiums such as Indus Towers and private tower companies, independent wireless carriers, tower owners, broadcasters and
owners of non-communications sites, including rooftops, utility towers, water towers and other alternative structures. We believe that site location and capacity, network density, price, quality and speed of service have been, and will continue to
be, significant competitive factors affecting owners, operators and managers of communications sites.

Our network development
services business competes with a variety of companies offering individual, or combinations of, competing services. The field of competitors includes site acquisition consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consultants,
structural engineering firms, tower owners/managers, telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide turnkey site development services through multiple subcontractors and our tenants’ personnel. We believe that our tenants base their
decisions for network development services on various criteria, including a company’s experience, local reputation, price and time for completion of a project.

Customer Demand

Our strategy is predicated on
the belief that wireless service providers will continue to invest in the coverage, quality and capacity of their networks in both our domestic and international markets, driving demand for our communications sites.



•Domestic wireless network investments.According to industry data, aggregate annual wireless capital spending in the United States has increased
from approximately $26 billion to over $30 billion over the last three years, resulting in consistent demand for our sites. Demand for our domestic communications sites is driven by:



•Wireless service provider focus on network quality and resulting investments in the coverage and capacity of their networks;







•Subscriber adoption of advanced wireless data applications such as mobile Internet and video, increasingly advanced devices, and the corresponding
deployments and densification of advanced networks by wireless service providers to satisfy this incremental demand for high-bandwidth wireless data;



•Increasing wireless data usage continues to incentivize carriers to make incremental investments in their data networks;



•Deployment of newly acquired spectrum; and



•Deployment of wireless and backhaul networks by new market entrants.

As consumer demand for and use of advanced wireless services in the United States grow, wireless service providers may be compelled to
deploy new technology and equipment, further increase the cell density of their existing networks and expand their network coverage.



•International wireless network investments.The wireless networks in most of our international markets are typically less advanced than those in
our domestic market with respect to the density of voice networks and the current technologies generally deployed for wireless services. Accordingly, demand for our international communications sites is primarily driven by:



•Incumbent wireless service providers investing in existing voice networks to improve or expand their coverage and increase capacity;



•In certain of our international markets, increasing subscriber adoption of wireless data applications, such as email, Internet and video; and



•Spectrum auctions, which result in new market entrants, as well as initial and incremental data network deployments.

We believe demand for our communications sites will continue as wireless service providers seek to increase the quality, coverage area
and capacity of their existing networks, while also investing in next generation data networks. To meet these network objectives, we believe wireless carriers will continue to outsource their communications site infrastructure needs as a means to
accelerate network development and more efficiently use their capital, rather than construct and operate their own communications sites and maintain their own communications site operation and development capabilities. In addition, because our
network development services are complementary to our rental and management business, we believe demand for our network development services will continue, consistent with industry trends.

Our customer demand could be adversely affected by the emergence and growth of new technologies, which could make it possible for
wireless carriers to increase the capacity and efficiency of their existing networks without the need for incremental cell sites. The increased use of spectrally efficient technologies or the availability of significant incremental spectrum in the
marketplace could potentially relieve a portion of our tenants’ network capacity problems, and as a result, could reduce the demand for tower-based antenna space. Additionally, certain complementary network technologies, such as small cell
deployments, could shift a portion of our tenants’ network investments away from the traditional tower-based networks, which may reduce the need for carriers to add more equipment at certain communications sites.

In addition, any increase in the use of network sharing, roaming or resale arrangements by wireless service providers could adversely
affect customer demand for tower space. These arrangements enable a provider to serve its customers outside the provider’s license area, to give licensed providers the right to enter into arrangements to serve overlapping license areas and to
permit non-licensed providers to enter the wireless marketplace. Consolidation among wireless carriers could similarly impact customer demand for our communications sites because the existing networks of wireless carriers often overlap. In addition,
wireless carriers sharing their sites or permitting equipment location swapping on their sites with other carriers to a significant degree could reduce demand for our communications sites. Further, our tenants may be subject to new regulatory
policies from time to time that materially and adversely affect the demand for our communications sites.







Employees

As of December 31, 2013, we employed 2,716 full-time individuals and consider our employee relations to be satisfactory.

Available Information

Our Internet website address iswww.americantower.com. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, and you should not consider information
contained on our website as part of this Annual Report. You may access, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, plus amendments to such reports as filed or furnished pursuant
to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), through the “Investor Relations” portion of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

We have adopted a written Code of Ethics
and Business Conduct Policy (the “Code of Conduct”) that applies to all of our employees and directors, including, but not limited to, our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer or
controller or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Conduct, our corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors are available at
the “Investor Relations” portion of our website. In the event we amend the Code of Conduct, or provide any waivers under the Code of Conduct to our directors or executive officers, we will disclose these events on our website as required
by the regulations of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) and applicable law.

In addition, paper copies of
these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing us at the following address: 116 Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02116, Attention: Investor Relations; or by calling us at (617) 375-7500.



