10-K


a06-1907_110k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C.  20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark
One)

ý

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005

OR

o

TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934

For
the transition period from          to

Commission
File Number: 0-13468

EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON, INC.

(Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)

(206)
674-3400

(Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered
  pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

None

Securities registered
  pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01
  per share

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.  Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.  Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer.  See definition of
“accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act.  (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

ý

Accelerated
filer

o

Non-accelerated
filer

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  Yes

o

No

ý

At June 30, 2005,
the aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $4,551,854,523.

At March 9, 2006 the
number of shares outstanding of registrant’s Common Stock was 106,830,520.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the
definitive proxy statement for the Registrant’s 2006 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 3, 2006 are incorporated by reference into Part III
of this Form 10-K.

Forward-Looking
Statements

In accordance with the
provisions of the Litigation Reform Act, the Company is making readers aware
that forward-looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by
their very nature subject to many important risk factors which could cause
actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
statements. For an identification of risk factors and their potential
significance, see Item 1A.  For
additional information about forward-looking statements, see “Safe Harbor for
Forward-Looking Statements Under Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995;
Certain Cautionary Statements” immediately preceding Part II, Item 7 “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in
this report.

PART I

ITEM 1—BUSINESS

Expeditors International
of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of providing global
logistics services.  The Company offers
its customers a seamless international network supporting the movement and
strategic positioning of goods.  The
Company’s services include the consolidation or forwarding of air and ocean
freight.  In each United States office,
and in many overseas offices, the Company acts as a customs broker.  The Company also provides additional services
including distribution management, vendor consolidation, cargo insurance,
purchase order management and customized logistics information.  The Company does not compete for domestic
freight, overnight courier or small parcel business and does not own aircraft
or steamships.

The Company, including
its majority-owned subsidiaries, operates full service offices (•) in the
cities identified below.  Full service
offices have also been established in locations where the Company maintains
unilateral control over assets and operations and where the existence of the
parent-subsidiary relationship is maintained by means other than record
ownership of voting stock (#).   In other
cities, the Company contracts with independent agents to provide required
services and has established approximately 110 such relationships
world-wide.  Locations where Company
employees perform sales and customer service functions are identified below as
international service centers (*). 
Wholly owned locations operating under the supervision and control of
another full service office are identified as satellite offices (+).  In each case, the opening date for the full
service office, international service center or satellite office is set forth
in parenthesis.



The Company was
incorporated in the State of Washington in May 1979.  Its executive offices are located at 1015
Third Avenue, 12

th

Floor, Seattle, Washington, and its telephone
number is (206) 674-3400.

The Company’s internet
address is http://www.expeditors.com. 
The Company makes available free of charge through its internet website
its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon
as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

For information
concerning the amount of revenues, net revenues, operating income, identifiable
assets, capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization attributable to
the geographic areas in which the Company conducts its business, see Note 9 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Beginning in 1981, the
Company’s primary business focus was on airfreight shipments from Asia to the
United States and related customs brokerage and other services.  In the mid-1980’s, the Company began to
expand its service capabilities in export airfreight, ocean freight and
distribution services.  Today the Company
offers a complete range of global logistics services to a diversified group of
customers, both in terms of industry specialization and geographic
location.  As opportunities for
profitable growth arise, the Company plans to create new offices.  While the Company has historically expanded
through organic growth, the Company has also been open to growth through
acquisition of, or establishing joint ventures with, existing agents or others
within the industry.

Airfreight
Services

Airfreight services
accounted for approximately 37, 39, and 37 percent of the Company’s 2005, 2004,
and 2003 consolidated revenues net of freight consolidation expenses (“net
revenues”), respectively.  When
performing airfreight services, the Company typically acts either as a freight
consolidator or as an agent for the airline which carries the shipment.  When acting as a freight consolidator, the
Company purchases cargo space from airlines on a volume basis and resells that
space to its customers at lower rates than the customers could obtain directly
from airlines.  When moving shipments
between points where the volume of business does not facilitate consolidation,
the Company receives and forwards individual shipments as the agent of the
airline which carries the shipment. Whether acting as an agent or consolidator,
the Company offers its customers knowledge of optimum routing, familiarity with
local business practices, knowledge of export and import documentation and
procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary services, and assistance with
space availability in periods of peak demand.

In its airfreight
forwarding operations, the Company procures shipments from its customers,
determines the routing, consolidates shipments bound for a particular airport
distribution point, and selects the airline for transportation to the
distribution point.  At the distribution
point, the Company or its agent arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken
down into its component shipments and for the transportation of the individual shipments
to their final destinations.

The Company estimates its
average airfreight consolidation weighs approximately 3,500 to 4,500 pounds and
a typical consolidation includes merchandise from several shippers.  Because shipment by air is relatively expensive
compared with ocean transportation, air shipments are generally characterized
by a high value-to-weight ratio, the need for rapid delivery, or both.

The Company typically
delivers shipments from a Company warehouse at the origin to the airline after
consolidating the freight into containers or onto pallets.  Shipments normally arrive at the destination
distribution point within forty-eight hours after such delivery.  During peak shipment periods, cargo space
available from the scheduled air carriers can be limited and backlogs of
freight shipments may occur.  When these
conditions exist, the Company may charter aircraft to meet customer demand.

The Company consolidates
individual shipments based on weight and volume characteristics in
cost-effective combinations. Typically, as the weight or volume of a shipment
increases, the cost per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter charged by the
Company decreases.  The rates charged by
airlines to forwarders and others also generally decrease as the weight or volume
of the shipment increases.  As a result,
by aggregating shipments and presenting them to an airline as a single
shipment, the Company is able to obtain


a lower rate per
pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter than that which it charges to its customers
for the individual shipment, while generally offering the customer a lower rate
than could be obtained from the airline for an unconsolidated shipment.

The Company’s net
airfreight forwarding revenues from a consolidated shipment include the
differential between the rate charged to the Company by an airline and the rate
which the Company charges to its customers, commissions paid to the Company by
the airline carrying the freight and fees for ancillary services.  Such ancillary services provided by the
Company include preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing,
crating and insurance services, negotiation of letters of credit, and
preparation of documentation to comply with local export laws.  When the Company acts as an agent for an
airline handling an unconsolidated

shipment, its net
revenues are primarily derived from commissions paid by the airline and fees
for ancillary services paid by the customer.

The Company does not own
aircraft and does not plan to do so. 
Management believes that the ownership of aircraft would subject the
Company to undue business risks, including large capital outlays, increased
fixed operating expenses, problems of fully utilizing aircraft and competition
with airlines.  Because the Company
relies on commercial airlines to transport its shipments, changes in carrier
policies and practices such as pricing, payment terms, scheduling, and
frequency of service may affect its business.

The Company also performs
breakbulk services which involve receiving and breaking down consolidated
airfreight lots and arranging for distribution of the individual
shipments.  Breakbulk service revenues
also include commissions from agents for airfreight shipments.

Customs Brokerage
and Other Services

Customs brokerage and
other services accounted for approximately 38, 38, and 37 percent of the
Company’s 2005, 2004, and 2003 consolidated net revenues, respectively.  As a customs broker, the Company assists
importers to clear shipments through customs by preparing required
documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties on behalf of the
importer, arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and
arranging for delivery.  The Company also
provides other value added services at destination such as warehousing and
product distribution, time definite transportation and inventory
management.  None of these other services
are currently individually significant to the Company’s net revenues.

The Company provides
customs clearance services in connection with many of the shipments it handles
as a freight forwarder.  However,
substantial customs brokerage revenues are derived from customers that elect to
use a competing forwarder.   Conversely,
shipments handled by the Company as a forwarder may be processed by another
customs broker selected by the customer.

The Company also provides
custom clearances for goods moving by rail and truck between the United States,
Canada and/or Mexico.  The commodities
being cleared and the time sensitive nature of the border brokerage business
require the Company to continue to make enhancements to its systems in order to
provide competitive service.

During 1996 the Company
established a subsidiary, Expeditors Tradewin, L.L.C., to respond to customer
driven requests for high-end customs consulting services.  The demand for these services was stimulated
by the changes made by Customs and Border Protection of the Department of
Homeland Security in response to the 1993 Customs Modernization Act.  Fees for these non-transactional services are
based upon hourly billing rates and bids for mutually agreed procedures.

Ocean Freight and
Ocean Services

Ocean freight services
accounted for approximately 25, 23, and 26 percent of the Company’s 2005, 2004,
and 2003 consolidated net revenues, respectively.  The Company’s revenues as an ocean freight
forwarder are derived from commissions paid by the carrier and revenues from
fees charged to customers for ancillary services which the Company may provide,
such as preparing documentation, procuring insurance, arranging for packing and
crating services, and providing consultation. 
The Company operates Expeditors International Ocean (“EIO”), a
Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier (“NVOCC”) specializing in ocean freight
consolidation from Asia to the United States.  
EIO also provides service, on a smaller scale, to and from any location
where the Company has an office or agent. 
As an NVOCC, EIO contracts with ocean shipping lines to obtain
transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a
specified time period at an agreed rate. 
EIO solicits Less-than Container Load (“LCL”) freight to fill the
containers and charges lower rates than those available directly from shipping
lines.  EIO also handles full container
loads for customers that do not have annual shipping volumes sufficient to
negotiate comparable contracts directly with the ocean carriers.  The Company does not own vessels and
generally does not physically handle the cargo.


Expeditors Cargo
Management Systems (“ECMS”) supplies a sophisticated ocean consolidation
service.  The Company owns and maintains
software that allows it to sell ECMS to large volume customers that have signed
their own service contracts with the ocean carriers.  As an ocean consolidator, ECMS may obtain LCL
freight from several vendors and consolidate this cargo into full containers.  The Company’s revenues as an ocean
consolidator are derived from handling LCL cargo at origin and from the fees
paid by customers for access to data captured during the consolidation process.

Marketing and
Customers

The Company provides
flexible service and seeks to understand the needs of the customers from points
of origin to ultimate destinations. 
Although the domestic importer usually designates the logistics company
and the services that will be required, the foreign shipper may also
participate in this selection process. 
Therefore, the Company coordinates its marketing program to reach both
domestic importers and their overseas suppliers.

The Company’s marketing
efforts are focused primarily on the traffic, shipping and purchasing
departments of existing and potential customers.  The district manager of each office is
responsible for marketing, sales coordination, and implementation in the area
in which he or she is located.  All
employees are responsible for customer service and relations.

The Company staffs its
offices largely with managers and other key personnel who are citizens of the
nations in which they operate and who have extensive experience in global
logistics.  Marketing and customer
service staffs are responsible for marketing the Company’s services directly to
local shippers and traffic managers who may select or influence the selection
of the logistics vendor and for ensuring that customers receive timely and
efficient service.  The Company believes
that its expertise in supplying solutions customized to the needs of its
customers, its emphasis on coordinating its origin and destination customer
service and marketing activities, and the incentives it gives to its managers
have been important elements of its success.

The goods handled by the
Company are generally a function of the products which dominate international
trade between any particular origin and destination.  Shipments of computer components, other
electronic equipment, housewares, sporting goods, machine parts, and toys,
comprise a significant percentage of the Company’s business.  Typical import customers include computer
retailers and distributors of consumer electronics, department store chains,
clothing and shoe wholesalers, manufacturers and catalogue stores.  Historically, no single customer has
accounted for five percent or more of the Company’s revenues.

Competition

The global logistics
services industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the
foreseeable future.  There are a large
number of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, but the
number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of logistics
services is more limited.  Depending on
the location of the shipper and the importer, the Company must compete against
both the niche players and larger entities. 
While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward
consolidation into larger firms striving for immediate multinational and
multi-service networks, the regional and local competitors maintain a strong
market presence.

Historically, the primary
competitive factors in the global logistics services industry have been price
and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise,
convenience, and scope of operations. 
The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are
competitive with the prices of others in the industry.  Recently, larger customers have exhibited a
trend toward more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of
the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just-in-time
inventory management.  This trend has
made computerized customer service capabilities a significant factor in
attracting and retaining customers. 
These computerized customer service capabilities include customized
Electronic Data Interchange, (“EDI”), and on-line freight tracing and tracking
applications.  The customized EDI
applications allow the transfer of key information between the customers’
systems and the Company’s systems. 
Freight tracing and tracking applications allow customers to know the location,
transit time and estimated delivery time of inventory in transit.

Management believes that
the ability to develop and deliver innovative solutions to meet customers’
increasingly sophisticated information requirements is a critical factor in the
ongoing success of the Company. 
Accordingly, the Company has devoted a significant amount of resources
towards the maintenance and enhancement of systems that will meet these
customer demands.  Management believes
that the Company’s existing systems are competitive with the systems currently
in use by other logistics services companies with which it competes.

Unlike many of its
competitors, who have tended to grow by merger and acquisition, the Company
operates the same accounting and transportation computer software, running on a
common hardware platform, in all of its full-service locations.  Small and middle-tier competitors, in
general, do not have the resources available to develop these customized
systems.  As a result, there is a
significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the
industry.  Management expects that this
trend toward consolidation will continue for the short- to medium-term.  Historically, growth through aggressive
acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Company’s competitors
and typically involves the purchase of significant “goodwill.”  As a result, the Company has pursued a
strategy


emphasizing organic
growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions.

The Company’s ability to
attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified personnel with experience in
global logistics services is an essential, if not the most important, element
of its ability to compete in the industry. 
To this end, the Company has adopted incentive compensation programs
which make percentages of branch revenues or profits available to managers for
distribution among key personnel.  The
Company believes that these incentive compensation programs, combined with its
experienced personnel and its ability to coordinate global marketing efforts,
provide it with a distinct competitive advantage and account for historical
growth that competitors have generally matched only through acquisition.

Currency and Other
Risk Factors

The nature of the Company’s
worldwide operations necessitate the Company dealing with a multitude of
currencies other than the U.S. dollar. 
This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the
international currency markets and governmental interference.  Many of the countries where the Company
maintains offices and/or agency relationships have strict currency control
regulations which influence the Company’s ability to hedge foreign currency
exposure.  The Company tries to
compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency
settlements among these offices or agents.

In addition, the Company’s
ability to provide service to its customers is highly dependent on good working
relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, steamship lines
and governmental agencies.  The Company
considers its current working relationships with these entities to be
good.  However, changes in space
allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, “modernization”
of the regulations governing customs clearance, and/or changes in governmental
quota restrictions could affect the Company’s business in unpredictable ways.

Seasonality

Historically, the Company’s
operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a
quarterly basis.  The first quarter has
traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have
traditionally been the strongest.  This
pattern has been the result of, or influenced by, numerous factors including
climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad
of other similar and subtle forces.  In
addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and
diversification of the Company’s international network and service
offerings.  The Company cannot accurately
forecast many of these factors, nor can the Company estimate accurately the
relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no
assurance that historical patterns will continue in future periods.

A significant portion of
the Company’s revenues are derived from customers in industries whose shipping
patterns are tied closely to consumer demand and from customers in industries
whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just-in-time production schedules.  Therefore, the timing of the Company’s
revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Company’s
control, such as shifting consumer demand for retail goods and manufacturing
production delays.  Additionally, many
customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a
quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues
until late in a quarter.  To the extent
that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities
analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could
have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Company’s
stock.

Environmental

In the United States, the
Company is subject to Federal, state and local provisions regulating the
discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise for the protection of
the environment.  Similar laws apply in
many other jurisdictions in which the Company operates.  Although current operations have not been
significantly affected by compliance with these environmental laws, governments
are becoming increasingly sensitive to environmental issues, and the Company
cannot predict what impact future environmental regulations may have on its
business.  The Company does not
anticipate making any material capital expenditures for environmental control
purposes during the remainder of the current or succeeding fiscal years.

Employees

At
January 31, 2006, the Company employed approximately 10,600 people, 3,900
in the United States and 625 in the balance of North America, 525 in South
America, 1,460 in Europe, 2,900 in Asia & Australasia, 900 in the
Near/Middle East and 290 in Africa. 
Approximately 1,500 of the Company’s employees are engaged principally
in sales and marketing and customer service, 6,525 in operations and 2,575 in
finance and administration.  The Company
is not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and considers its
relations with its employees to be satisfactory.

In
order to retain the services of highly qualified, experienced, and motivated
employees, the Company places considerable emphasis on its incentive
compensation programs and stock option plans.


Executive Officers
of the Registrant

The
following table sets forth the names, ages, and positions of current executive
officers of the Company.

Peter
J. Rose has served as a director and Vice President of the Company since July 1981.  Mr. Rose was elected a Senior Vice
President of the Company in May 1986, Executive Vice President in May 1987,
President and Chief Executive Officer in October 1988, and Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer in May 1991.

James
L.K. Wang has served as a director and the Managing Director of Expeditors
International Taiwan Ltd., the Company’s former exclusive Taiwan agent, since September 1981.  In 1991, Mr. Wang’s employment agreement
was assigned to E.I. Freight (Taiwan), Ltd., the Company's exclusive Taiwan
agent through 2004.  Mr. Wang's contract
is now assigned to ECI Taiwan Co. Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company.  In October 1988, Mr. Wang
became a director of the Company and its Director-Far East, and Executive Vice
President in January 1996.  In May 2000,
Mr. Wang was elected President-Asia.

Glenn
M. Alger joined the Company in July 1981 as a District Manager.  Mr. Alger was elected Vice President and
Regional Manager in October 1988, Senior Vice President-U.S. Operations in
January 1992, Senior Vice President and Director-North America in January 1993,
and Executive Vice President and Director-North America in March 1997.  In September 1999, Mr. Alger was
elected President and Chief Operating Officer.

Rommel
C. Saber joined the Company as Director-Near/Middle East in February 1990
and was elected Senior Vice President-Sales and Marketing in January 1993.  Mr. Saber was elected Senior Vice
President-Air Export in September 1993.  In July 1997 he was elected Senior Vice
President Near/Middle East and Indian Subcontinent and Executive Vice
President-Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East in August 2000.  In February 2006, Mr. Saber was
elected President-Europe, Africa, Near/Middle East and Indian Subcontinent.

Robert
L. Villanueva joined the Company as Regional Vice President Northwest U.S.
Region in April 1994.  In September 1999,
he was elected Executive Vice President-The Americas and President-The Americas
in May 2004.

Sandy
K.Y. Liu became Chief Operating Officer-Asia of the Company in January 2001.  From 1969 through 2000, Mr. Liu was
employed in various positions by China Airlines.  In November 1998, Mr. Liu was
appointed President of China Airlines.

R.
Jordan Gates joined the Company as its Controller-Europe in February 1991.  Mr. Gates was elected Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer of the Company in August 1994 and Senior Vice
President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in January 1998.  In May 2000, Mr. Gates was elected
Executive Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.  Mr. Gates was also elected as a director
in May 2000.

Timothy
C. Barber joined the Company in May 1986. 
Mr. Barber was promoted to District Manager of the Seattle office
in January 1987 and Regional Vice President in January 1993.  Mr. Barber was elected Vice
President-Sales and Marketing in September 1993 and Senior Vice
President-Sales and Marketing in January 1998.  In September 1999, Mr. Barber was
elected Executive Vice President-Global Sales.


Rosanne
Esposito joined the Company as its Director-U.S. Import Services in January 1996.  Ms. Esposito was promoted to Vice
President in May 1997 and Senior Vice President-Global Customs in May 2001.  In May 2004, Ms. Esposito was
promoted to Executive Vice President-Global Customs.

Eugene
K. Alger joined the Company in October 1982.  Mr. Alger was promoted to District
Manager and Regional Vice President of the Los Angeles office in May 1983.
 He was elected Regional Vice
President-Southwestern U.S. and Mexico Region in January 1992, and Senior
Vice President of North America in September 1999.

L.
Manfred Amberger joined the Company as Managing Director of Germany in April 1992.  Mr. Amberger was promoted to Regional
Director-Europe in May 1996 and Vice President in January 1998.  Mr. Amberger was elected Senior Vice
President-Continental Europe in May 2000.

Jean
Claude Carcaillet joined the Company as Managing Director-Australasia in August 1988.  He was elected Senior Vice
President-Australasia in September 1997.

Philip
M. Coughlin joined the Company in October 1985.  Mr. Coughlin was promoted to District
Manager in August 1986.  He was
elected Regional Manager for New England and Canada in January 1991,
Regional Vice President-Northeastern U.S. and Northern Border in January 1992,
and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999.

Roger
A. Idiart joined the Company as its Manager of Gateway Operations in December 1995.  Mr. Idiart was elected Vice
President-Global Air Cargo in January 1998, and Senior Vice President-Air
Cargo in May 2001.

Jeffrey
J. King joined the Company in October 1990 as Director-Taxation and Legal
Services and was elected Vice President-General Counsel in May 1992.  In August 1994, Mr. King was
elected Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary and Senior Vice
President-General Counsel and Secretary in January 1998.

Charles
J. Lynch joined the Company in September 1984.  Mr. Lynch was promoted to Assistant
Controller in July 1985 and Controller-Domestic Operations in January 1989.  Mr. Lynch was elected Corporate
Controller in January 1991 and Vice President-Corporate Controller in January 1998.  In May 2002, Mr. Lynch was elected
Senior Vice President-Corporate Controller.

Jeffrey S. Musser
joined the Company in February 1983. 
Mr. Musser was promoted to District Manager in October 1989 and
Regional Vice President in September 1999. 
Mr. Musser was elected Senior Vice President-Chief Information
Officer in January 2005.

Daniel
R. Wall joined the Company in March 1987. 
Mr. Wall was promoted to District Manager in May 1992 and
Global Director-Account Management in March 2002.  Mr. Wall was elected Vice President-ECMS
in January 2004 and Senior Vice President-Ocean Services in September 2004.

Regulation

With
respect to the Company’s activities in the air transportation industry in the
United States, it is subject to regulation by the Transportation Safety
Administration of the Department of Homeland Security as an indirect air
carrier.  The Company’s overseas offices
and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective countries
of operation.  The Company is licensed in
each of its offices or in the case of its newer offices, has made application
for a license, as an airfreight forwarder by the International Air Transport
Association (“IATA”). IATA is a voluntary association of airlines which
prescribes certain operating procedures for airfreight forwarders acting as
agents for its members.  The majority of
the Company’s airfreight forwarding business is conducted with airlines which
are IATA members.

The
Company is licensed as a customs broker by Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”)
of the Department of Homeland Security in each U.S. customs district in which
it does business.  All United States
customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to
periodic audits by CBP.  In other
jurisdictions in which the Company performs clearance services, the Company is
licensed by the appropriate governmental authority.


The
Company is registered as an Ocean Transportation Intermediary by the Federal
Maritime Commission (“FMC”).  The FMC

has established
certain qualifications for shipping agents, including certain surety bonding
requirements.  The FMC also is
responsible for the economic regulation of NVOCC activity originating or
terminating in the United States.  To
comply with these economic regulations, vessel operators and NVOCCs, such as
EIO, are required to file tariffs electronically which establish the rates to
be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the United
States.  The FMC has the power to enforce
these regulations by assessing penalties.

The
Company does not believe that current United States and foreign governmental
regulations impose significant economic restraint upon its business
operations.  In general, the Company
conducts its business activities in each country through a majority-owned
subsidiary corporation that is organized and existing under the laws of that
country.  However, the regulations of
foreign governments can impose barriers to the Company’s ability to provide the
full range of its business activities in a wholly or majority United States-owned
subsidiary.  For example, foreign
ownership of a customs brokerage business is prohibited in some jurisdictions
and less frequently the ownership of the licenses required for freight
forwarding and/or freight consolidation is restricted to local entities.  When the Company encounters this sort of
governmental restriction, it works to establish a legal structure that meets
the requirements of the local regulations while also giving the Company the
substantive operating and economic advantages that would be available in the
absence of such regulation. This can be accomplished by creating a joint
venture or exclusive agency relationship with a qualified local entity that
holds the required license.  In cases
where the Company has unilateral control over the assets and operations of the
local entity, notwithstanding the lack of technical majority ownership of
common stock, the Company consolidates the accounts of the local entity.  In such cases, consolidation is necessary to
fairly present the financial position and results of operations of the Company
because of the existence of the parent-subsidiary relationship by means other
than record ownership of voting common stock.

Cargo Liability

When acting as an
airfreight consolidator, the Company assumes a carrier’s liability for lost or
damaged shipments. This legal liability is typically limited by contract to the
lower of the transaction value or the released value ($9.07 per pound unless
the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge), except if the loss
or damage is caused by willful misconduct or in the absence of an appropriate
airway bill.  The airline which the
Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company
in the same manner and to the same extent. 
When acting solely as the agent of the airline or shipper, the Company
does not assume any contractual liability for loss or damage to shipments
tendered to the airline.

When acting as an ocean
freight consolidator, the Company assumes a carrier’s liability for lost or
damaged shipments.  This liability is
typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the
released value ($500 per package or customary freight unit unless the customer
declares a higher value and pays a surcharge). 
The steamship line which the Company utilizes to make the actual
shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same
extent.  In its ocean freight forwarding
and customs clearance operations, the Company does not assume cargo liability.

When providing warehouse
and distribution services, the Company limits its legal liability by contract
and tariff to an amount generally equal to the lower of fair value or fifty
cents per pound with a maximum of fifty dollars per “lot” — which is defined as
the smallest unit that the warehouse is required to track.  Upon payment of a surcharge for warehouse and
distribution services, the Company will assume additional liability.

The Company maintains
marine cargo insurance covering claims for losses attributable to missing or
damaged shipments for which it is legally liable.  The Company also maintains insurance coverage
for the property of others which is stored in Company warehouse facilities.  This insurance coverage is provided by a
Vermont based insurance entity wholly owned by the Company.  The coverage is fronted and reinsured by a
global insurance company.  The total risk
retained by the Company in 2005 was approximately $3 million, although actual
and estimated losses are expected to be less. 
This self-retention will increase to $4 million as of February 2006.  In addition, the Company is licensed as an
insurance broker through its subsidiary, Expeditors Cargo Insurance Brokers, Inc.
and places stand alone insurance coverage for other customers.


ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS


ITEM 1B – UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS

Not applicable.

ITEM 2 — PROPERTIES

The Company owns
the following properties:

The Company leases and
maintains 69 additional offices and satellite locations in the United States
and 199 offices throughout the world, each located close to an airport, ocean
port, or on an important border crossing. 
The majority of these facilities contain warehouse facilities.  Lease terms are either on a month-to-month
basis or terminate at various times through 2013.  See Note 7 to the Company’s Consolidated
Financial Statements for lease commitments. 
As an office matures, the Company will investigate the possibility of
building or buying suitable facilities.  
 The Company believes that current
leases can be extended and that suitable alternative facilities are available
in the vicinity of each present facility should extensions be unavailable at
the conclusion of current leases.

ITEM 3 — LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS

The Company is ordinarily
involved in claims and lawsuits which arise in the normal course of business,
none of which currently, in management’s opinion, will have a material affect
on the Company’s operations or financial position.

ITEM 4 — SUBMISSION OF MATTERS
TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.


PART II

ITEM 5 — MARKET FOR THE
REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES

The following table sets
forth the high and low sale prices in the over-the-counter market for the
Company’s Common Stock as reported by The NASDAQ National Market System under
the symbol EXPD.

There were 2,008 shareholders
of record as of March 10, 2006. 
Management estimates that there were approximately 95,770 beneficial
shareholders at that date.

The Board of Directors
declared semi-annual dividends during the two most recent fiscal years as
follows:

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

In November 1993, the
Company’s Board of Directors authorized a Non-Discretionary Stock Repurchase
Plan.  This plan was amended in February
2001 to increase the authorization to repurchase up to 10 million shares of the
Company’s common stock.  This
authorization has no expiration date. 
This plan was disclosed in the Company’s report on Form 10-K filed March
31, 1995.  In the fourth quarter of 2005,
159,331 shares were repurchased under the Non-Discretionary Stock Repurchase
Plan.

In November 2001,
under a Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan, the Company’s Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the
issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock.  The maximum number of shares available for
repurchase under this plan will increase as the total number of outstanding
shares increase.  This authorization has
no expiration date.  This plan was
announced on November 13, 2001.  In
the fourth quarter of 2005, 518,960 shares were repurchased under the
Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan. 
These discretionary repurchases were made to keep the number of issued
and outstanding shares from growing as a result of stock option exercises.


ITEM 6 — SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA

Financial Highlights

In thousands except per
share data

All share and per share
information have been adjusted to reflect a 2-for-1 stock split effected in
June, 2002.


SAFE HARBOR FOR
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS UNDER SECURITIES

LITIGATION REFORM ACT
OF 1995; CERTAIN CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS

From time to time, the
Company or its representatives have made or may make forward-looking
statements, orally or in writing.  Such
forward-looking statements may be included in, but not limited to, press
releases, oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive
officer or in various filings made by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The words or phrases “will likely result”, “are expected
to”, “will continue”, “is anticipated”, “estimate”, “project” or similar
expressions are intended to identify “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act.  Such statements are qualified in their
entirety by reference to and are accompanied by the discussion in Item 1A of
certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from such forward-looking statements.

The risks included in
Item 1A are not exhaustive.  Furthermore,
reference is also made to other sections of this report which include
additional factors which could adversely impact the Company’s business and
financial performance.  Moreover, the
Company operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment.  New risk factors emerge from time to time and
it is not possible for management to predict all of such risk factors, nor can
it assess the impact of all of such risk factors on the Company’s business or
the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual
results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
statements.  Accordingly, forward-looking
statements cannot be relied upon as a guarantee of actual results.

Shareholders should be
aware that while the Company does, from time to time, communicate with
securities analysts, it is against the Company’s policy to disclose to such
analysts any material non-public information or other confidential commercial
information.  Accordingly, shareholders
should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement or report issued
by any analyst irrespective of the content of such statement or report.
Furthermore, the Company has a policy against issuing financial forecasts or
projections or confirming the accuracy of forecasts or projections issued by
others.  Accordingly, to the extent that
reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or
opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of the Company.


ITEM 7 — MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Executive Summary

Expeditors International
of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of global logistics
management, including international freight forwarding and consolidation, for
both air and ocean freight.  The Company
acts as a customs broker in all domestic offices, and in many of its
international offices.  The Company also
provides additional services for its customers including value-added
distribution, purchase order management, vendor consolidation and other
logistics solutions.  The Company does
not compete for overnight courier or small parcel business.  The Company does not own or operate aircraft
or steamships.

International trade is
influenced by many factors, including economic and political conditions in the
United States and abroad, currency exchange rates, and United States and
foreign laws and policies relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, foreign
investments and taxation.  Periodically,
governments consider a variety of changes to current tariffs and trade restrictions.  The Company cannot predict which, if any, of
these proposals may be adopted, nor can the Company predict the affects
adoption of any such proposal will have on the Company’s business.  Doing business in foreign locations also
subjects the Company to a variety of risks and considerations not normally
encountered by domestic enterprises.  In
addition to being influenced by governmental policies concerning international
trade, the Company’s business may also be affected by political developments
and changes in government personnel or policies in the nations in which it does
business.

The Company derives its revenues from three principal sources:  1) airfreight, 2) ocean freight, and 3) customs
brokerage and other services.  These are
the revenue categories presented in the financial statements.

The Company is managed
along four geographic areas of responsibility: 
The Americas; Asia; Europe, Africa, Near/Middle East and Indian
Subcontinent (EMAIR); and Australasia. 
Each area is divided into sub-regions which are composed of several operating
units with individual profit and loss responsibility.  The Company’s business involves shipments
between operating units and typically touches more than one geographic
area.  The nature of the international
logistics business necessitates a high degree of communication and cooperation
between operating units.  Because of this
inter-relationship between operating units, it is very difficult to look at one
geographic area and draw meaningful conclusions as to its contribution to the
Company’s overall success on a stand-alone basis.

The Company’s operating
units share revenue according to arms-length industry conventions.  The Company’s strategy closely links
compensation with operating unit profitability. 
Individual success likely involves cooperation with other operating
units.

As a non-asset based
carrier, the Company does not own transportation assets.  Rather, the Company generates the major
portion of its air and ocean freight revenues by purchasing transportation
services from direct (asset-based) carriers and reselling those services to its
customers.   The difference between the
rate billed to customers (the sell rate), and the rate paid to the carrier (the
buy rate) is termed “net revenue” or “yield.” 
By consolidating shipments from multiple customers and concentrating its
buying power, the Company is able to negotiate favorable buy rates from the
direct carriers, while at the same time offering lower sell rates than
customers would otherwise be able to negotiate themselves.

Customs brokerage and
other services involves providing services at destination, such as helping
customers clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation,
calculating and providing for payment of duties and other taxes on behalf of
the customers as well as arranging for any required inspections by governmental
agencies, and arranging for delivery.  
This is a complicated function requiring technical knowledge of customs rules and
regulations in the multitude of countries in which the Company has offices.

The Company’s ability to
provide services to its customers is highly dependent on good working
relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, ocean steamship
lines, and governmental agencies.  The
significance of maintaining acceptable working relationships with governmental
agencies and asset-based providers involved in global trade has gained
increased importance as a result of ongoing concern over terrorism.  As each carrier labors to comply with governmental
regulations implementing security policies and procedures, inherent conflicts
emerge which can and do affect global trade to some degree.  A good reputation helps to develop practical
working understandings that will effectively meet security requirements while
minimizing potential international trade obstacles.  The Company considers its current working
relationships with these entities to be satisfactory.  However, changes in space allotments
available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, “modernization” of
the regulations governing customs brokerage, and/or changes in governmental
quota restrictions could affect the Company’s business in unpredictable ways.

Historically, the Company’s
operating results have been subject to a seasonal trend when measured on a
quarterly basis.  The first quarter has
traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have
traditionally been the strongest.  This
pattern is the result of, or is influenced by, numerous factors including
climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad
of other similar and subtle forces.  In
addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and
diversification of the Company’s international network and service
offerings.  The Company cannot accurately
forecast many of these


factors nor can the
Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor
and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns, if any,
will continue in future periods.

A significant portion of
the Company’s revenues are derived from customers in retail industries whose
shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand, and from customers in
industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just-in-time production
schedules.  Therefore, the timing of the
Company’s revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the
Company’s control, such as a sudden change in consumer demand for retail goods
and/or manufacturing production delays. 
Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods
at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a
shortfall in

revenues until late in a
quarter.  To the extent that a shortfall
in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such
shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate
and adverse effect on the trading price of the Company’s stock.

As further discussed
under liquidity and capital resources, total capital expenditures in 2006 are
expected to exceed $165 million.

In terms of the
opportunities, challenges and risks that management focused on in 2005, the
Company operates in 58 countries throughout the world in the competitive global
logistics industry and Company activities are tied directly to the global
economy.  From the inception of the
Company, management has believed that the elements required for a successful
global service organization can only be assured through recruiting, training,
and ultimately retaining superior personnel. 
The Company’s greatest challenge is now and always has been perpetuating
a consistent global culture which demands:

•

Total
dedication, first and foremost, to providing superior customer service;

•

Aggressive
marketing of all of the Company’s service offerings;

•

Ongoing
development of key employees and management personnel via formal and informal
means;

•

Creation
of unlimited advancement opportunities for employees dedicated to hard work,
personal growth and continuous improvement;

•

Individual
commitment to the identification and mentoring of successors for every key
position so that when inevitable change is required, a qualified and
well-trained internal candidate is ready to step forward; and

•

Continuous
identification, design and implementation of system solutions, both
technological and otherwise, to meet and exceed the needs of our customers
while simultaneously delivering tools to make our employees more efficient and
more effective.

The Company has
reinforced these values with a compensation system that rewards employees for
profitably managing the things they can control.  There is no limit to how much a key manager
can be compensated for success.   The
Company believes in a “real world” environment in every operating unit where
individuals are not sheltered from the profit implications of their
decisions.  At the same time, the Company
insists on continued focus on such things as accounts receivable collection,
cash flow management and credit soundness in an attempt to insulate managers
from the sort of catastrophic errors that might end a career.

Any failure to perpetuate
this unique culture on a self-sustained basis throughout the Company, provides
a greater threat to the Company’s continued success than any external force,
which would be largely beyond our control. 
Consequently, management spends the majority of its time focused on
creating an environment where employees can learn and develop while also
building systems and taking preventative action to reduce exposure to negative
events.   The Company strongly believes
that it is nearly impossible to predict events that, in the aggregate, could
have a positive or a negative impact on future operations.  As a result our focus is on building and
maintaining a global culture of well-trained employees and managers that are
prepared to identify and react to subtle changes as they develop and thereby
help the Company adapt and thrive as major trends emerge.

Critical Accounting Estimates

A summary of the Company’s significant accounting
policies can be found in Note 1 in the consolidated financial statements in
this

10-K.

Management believes that the nature of the Company’s
business is such that there are few, if any, complex measurement issues or
challenges in accounting for operations.


While judgments and estimates are a necessary component
of any system of accounting, the Company’s use of estimates is limited
primarily to the following areas that in the aggregate are not a major
component of the Company’s statement of earnings:

•

accounts receivable
valuation,

•

the useful lives of
long-term assets,

•

the accrual of costs
related to ancillary services the Company provides,

•

establishment of
adequate insurance liabilities for the portion of the freight related exposure
which the Company has self-insured, and

•

accrual of tax expense
on an interim basis.

Management
believes that the methods utilized in all of these areas are non-aggressive in
approach and consistent in application. 
Management believes that there are limited, if any, alternative
accounting principles or methods which could be applied to the Company’s
transactions.  While the use of estimates
means that actual future results may be different from those contemplated by
the estimates, the Company believes that alternative principles and methods
used for making such estimates would not produce materially different results
than those reported.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised
2004), “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS No. 123R), which replaces SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (SFAS No. 123) and supercedes
APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.”  SFAS No. 123R requires all share-based
payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options and employee
stock purchase plans, to be recognized in the financial statements based on
their fair values, beginning with the first interim or annual period of the
registrant's first fiscal year beginning on or after June 15, 2005, with
early adoption encouraged.  In addition,
SFAS No. 123R will cause unrecognized expense (based on the amount in the
Company’s pro forma footnote disclosure) related to options vesting after the
date of initial adoption to be recognized as a charge to results of operations
over the remaining vesting period.  The
Company has adopted SFAS No. 123R as of January 1, 2006.  Under SFAS No. 123R, the Company must
determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share-based
payments, the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition
method to be used at the date of adoption. 
The Company will continue to use the Black-Scholes model for valuing
option expense and will amortize the compensation expense using the
straight-line prorated method.  The
Company has elected to use the modified retrospective method of transitioning
to SFAS No. 123R.  Under the modified
retrospective method, beginning with the report on form 10-Q for the first
quarter of 2006, the Company will restate all periods presented.  The adoption of SFAS No. 123R will have
a material impact on the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated results
of operations, earnings per share and consolidated statement of cash flows.


Results of Operations

The following table shows
the consolidated net revenues (revenues less transportation expenses)
attributable to the Company’s principal services and the Company’s expenses for
2005, 2004, and 2003, expressed as percentages of net revenues.  Management believes that net revenues are a
better measure than total revenues of the relative importance of the Company’s
principal services since total revenues earned by the Company as a freight
consolidator include the carriers’ charges to the Company for carrying the
shipment whereas revenues earned by the Company in its other capacities include
only the commissions and fees actually earned by the Company.

2005 compared with 2004

Airfreight net revenues
in 2005 increased 12% compared with 2004 primarily because of an increase in
airfreight volumes.  Global airfreight
tonnages in 2005 increased 9% compared with 2004.  The 1% decrease in airfreight yields in 2005
was primarily a result of air carrier fuel surcharges which the Company
typically passes on without a profit element. 
The Company’s North American export airfreight net revenues increased 13%
in 2005 compared to 2004, primarily the result of increased market share
attributable to focused sales activity.  Airfreight
net revenues from Asia and from Europe increased 15% and 8%, respectively, for
2005 compared with 2004. These increases are the result of market price
increases, partially offset by yield declines of less than 1%, and increased
tonnage of 13% from Asia and 2% from Europe, primarily as a result of increased
sales success.

Ocean freight volumes, measured in terms of forty-foot container
equivalents (FEUs), increased 18% over 2004 while ocean freight and ocean
services net revenues increased 23% during the same period.  The increase in net revenue can be attributed
to cyclical market conditions and trade lane imbalances.

The Company continued its
focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while
leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the
wholesale level.  The Company’s North
American ocean freight net revenues increased 22% in 2005 compared to 2004.  Ocean freight net revenues from Asia increased
31% and from Europe decreased 1% for 2005 compared with 2004.  The increase in North American and Asian
ocean freight net revenue are primarily a result of greater market share.  The decrease experienced in Europe is
primarily due to decreased export volumes which can be attributable to the
relative value of European currencies throughout the year.


Customs brokerage and
other services net revenues increased 18% in 2005 as compared with 2004.  This is a result of the Company’s reputation
for providing high quality service and increased opportunities within the
customs brokerage market.  These
opportunities arise as customers seek out customs brokers with sophisticated
computerized capabilities.  In addition, the
Company’s customs brokerage offerings have benefited from increased emphasis on
regulatory compliance.

Salaries and related
costs increased 16% in 2005 compared to 2004 as a result of (1) the
Company’s increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel
in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased
compensation levels.  Salaries and related
costs remained constant as a percentage of net revenues.  The relatively consistent relationship
between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy
that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base
salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of
the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee.  Using this compensation model, changes in
individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company
profits.  Management believes that the
growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2005 are a result of the
incentives inherent in the Company’s compensation program.

This trend may not
continue in 2006 and future years as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R,
which requires the expensing of the fair value of employee stock options.  Management expects salaries and related costs
as a percentage of net revenues will be more volatile.

Other operating expenses
increased 6% in 2005 as compared with 2004 as rent expense, communications
expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate
the Company’s growing operations.  Other
operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased 2% in 2005 as
compared with 2004.  Management believes
that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of ongoing
cost containment objectives at the branch level.

Other income, net, increased
83% in 2005 as compared with 2004. Due to higher interest rates on higher
average cash balances and short-term investments during 2005, interest income
increased by $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.

The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other
jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of
operations.  The Company’s consolidated
effective income tax rate in 2005 of 29.6% decreased when compared with the 35.4%
rate in 2004.  The lower tax rate in 2005
is primarily the result of the Company adopting a plan under Internal Revenue
Code (IRC) 965, which was added by the American Jobs Creation Act.  In accordance with IRC 965, the Company
recorded a one-time tax benefit of $22 million in the fourth quarter of
2005.  In order to qualify for this
credit, the Company adopted a plan which requires qualified capital
expenditures of approximately $105 million over the next two to three years.

2004 compared with 2003

Airfreight net revenues
in 2004 increased 25% compared with 2003 primarily because of an increase in
airfreight volumes.  Global airfreight
tonnages in 2004 increased 23% compared with 2003.  The 1% decrease in airfreight yields in 2004
was primarily a result of air carriers increasing their rates such that the
Company was unable to increase its corresponding rates to customers in a timely
and effective manner.  As with the second
half of 2003, the Company elected to absorb these short-term decreases in the
interest of maintaining long-term customer relationships.  The Company’s North American export
airfreight net revenues increased 25% in 2004 compared to 2003.  The increase is partly a recovery of the
prior year decrease and partly the result of increased exports from the United
States due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar. 
Airfreight net revenues from Asia and from Europe increased 37% and 23%,
respectively, for 2004 compared with 2003. 
These increases are the result of market price increases, partially
offset by yield declines of less than 1%, and increased tonnage of 26% from Asia
and 18% from Europe, primarily as a result of increased sales success.

Ocean freight volumes, measured in terms of forty-foot container
equivalents (FEUs), increased 29% over 2003 while ocean freight and ocean
services net revenues increased only 10% during the same period.  The difference in these two growth rates is a
result of a 200 basis point reduction in ocean freight yields.

The reduction in a yield is a function of two major factors:

•

Revenue from ECMS in 2004 increased only 2%
over 2003 because of rate pressures on vendor consolidation fees.

•

A series of rate increases put forward by
direct ocean freight carriers throughout 2004. 
Due to market conditions primarily related to capacity, these rate
increases, because of magnitude and frequency, could not be passed on to
customers in a timely manner.

The Company continued its
focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while
leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the
wholesale level.  The Company’s North
American ocean freight net revenues increased in 2004 compared to 2003.  Ocean freight net revenues from Asia and from
Europe increased 22% and 8%, respectively, for 2004 compared with 2003.


Customs brokerage and
other services net revenues increased 23% in 2004 as compared with 2003.  This is a result of the Company’s growing
reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the
customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more
sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics
management program.  In addition,
increased emphasis on regulatory compliance has benefited the Company’s customs
brokerage offerings.

Salaries and related
costs increased 20% in 2004 compared to 2003 as a result of (1) the
Company’s increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel
in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased
compensation levels.  Salaries and related
costs remained constant as a percentage of net revenues.  The relatively consistent relationship
between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy
that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest
base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage
of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key
employee.  Using this compensation model,
changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in
Company profits.  Management believes
that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2004 are a
result of the incentives inherent in the Company’s compensation program.

Other operating expenses
increased 12% in 2004 as compared with 2003 as rent expense, communications
expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate
the Company’s growing operations.  Other
operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased in 2004 as
compared with 2003.  Management believes
that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of ongoing
cost containment objectives at the branch level.  The ability to sustain these savings into
future periods is contingent upon branch level management’s ability to adhere
to these objectives

.

Other income, net,
decreased 4% in 2004 as compared with 2003. Due to higher interest rates on
higher average cash balances and short-term investments during 2004, interest
income increased by $1.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2004.  Rental income, net of applicable
depreciation, of $2.6 million and $3.4 million for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003, respectively, is included in other income.  The rental income is derived from two of the
Company’s properties, one located near Heathrow airport in London, England and
an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California
International Airport.  As a result of
the scheduled remodeling of the San Francisco, California office and warehouse
facility, rental income from that property ceased at the end of the first
quarter of 2004.

The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other
jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of
operations.  The Company’s consolidated
effective income tax rate in 2004 of 35.4% decreased when compared with the
36.4% rate in 2003.  The lower tax rate
in 2004 is the result of the decreased state tax expense caused by an increase
in the taxable income sourced outside the United States and certain accounting
adjustments made in 2003.

Currency and Other Risk
Factors

International air/ocean
freight forwarding and customs brokerage are intensively competitive and are
expected to remain so for the foreseeable future.  There are a large number of entities
competing in the international logistics industry; however, the Company’s
primary competition is confined to a relatively small number of companies
within this group.  While there is
currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into large
firms with multinational offices and agency networks, regional and local
broker/forwarders remain a competitive force.

Historically, the primary
competitive factors in the international logistics industry have been price and
quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise,
convenience, and scope of operations. 
The Company emphasizes quality customer service and believes that its
prices are competitive with those of others in the industry.  Customers have exhibited a trend towards more
sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics
supply chain by embracing strategies such as just-in-time inventory
management.  The Company believes that
this trend has resulted in customers using fewer service providers with greater
technological capacity and consistent global coverage.  Accordingly, sophisticated computerized
customer service capabilities and a stable worldwide network have become
significant factors in attracting and retaining customers.

Developing these systems
and a worldwide network has added a considerable indirect cost to the services
provided to customers.  Smaller and
middle-tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop
customized systems and a worldwide network. 
As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently
taking place in the industry.  Management
expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short- to
medium-term.

The nature of the Company’s
worldwide operations necessitates the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies
other than the U.S. dollar.  This results
in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international
currency markets and governmental


interference.  Some of the countries where the Company
maintains offices and/or agency relationships have strict currency control
regulations which influence the Company’s ability to hedge foreign currency
exposure.  The Company tries to
compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency
settlements among its offices or agents. 
The Company enters into foreign currency hedging transactions only in
limited locations where there are regulatory or commercial limitations on the
Company’s ability to move

money freely around the
world or the short-term financial outlook in any country is such that hedging
is the most time-sensitive way to avoid short-term exchange losses.  Any such hedging activity during 2005, 2004
and 2003 was insignificant.  Net foreign
currency gains realized in 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $862, $86 and $588,
respectively.  The Company had no foreign
currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004.

The Company has
traditionally generated revenues from airfreight, ocean freight and customs
brokerage and other services.  Historically,
this annual filing has gone on to state that in light of the customer-driven
trend to provide customer rates on a door-to-door basis, management foresees
the potential, in the medium- to long-term, for fees normally associated with
customs house brokerage to be de-emphasized and included as a component of
other services offered by the Company. 
We now believe we were wrong about this.

Sources of Growth

During 2005, the Company
opened 12 full-service offices (•) and 5 satellite offices (+), as follows:

Ningbo, Surabaya and
Johor Bahru converted from satellites to full-service offices in 2005.

Acquisitions - Historically,
growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of
the Company’s competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant “goodwill,”
the value of which can be realized in large measure only by retaining the
customers and profit margins of the acquired business.  As a result, the Company has pursued a
strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic
acquisitions, where future economic benefit significantly exceeds the “goodwill”
recorded in the transaction.

Internal Growth - Management
believes that a comparison of “same store” growth is critical in the evaluation
of the quality and extent of the Company’s internally generated growth.  This “same store” analysis isolates the
financial contributions from offices that have been included in the Company’s
operating results for at least one full year. 
The table below presents “same store” comparisons on a year-over-year
basis for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.


Same store comparisons
for the years ended December 31,




Net
  revenues


%


%


%

Operating
  income


%


%


%

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

The Company’s principal
source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities.  Net cash provided by operating activities for
the year ended December 31, 2005 was $280 million, as compared with $193
million for 2004.  This $87 million
increase is principally due to increased net earnings and deferred tax expense
on unremitted foreign earnings.  The
increased accounts receivable is offset by increased accounts payable, accrued
expenses and taxes payable.  Increased
accounts receivable is primarily due to higher billings in November and December 2005,
compared to the same periods in 2004. 
Increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses are a result of the
Company’s attempts to manage cash flows by matching the timing of cash outflows
for payments to vendors with cash inflows from collections of customer
billings.

The Company’s business is subject to seasonal
fluctuations.  Cash flow fluctuates as a
result of this seasonality. 
Historically, the first quarter shows an excess of customer collections
over customer billings.  This results in
positive cash flow.  The increased
activity

associated with peak season (typically commencing late
second or early third quarter) causes an excess of customer billings over
customer collections.  This cyclical
growth in customer receivables consumes available cash.  Due to the Company’s management of accounts
payable and accrued expenses as described in the preceding paragraph, cash flow
from operating activities remained positive.

As a customs broker, the Company makes significant
5-10 business day cash advances for certain of its customers’ obligations such
as the payment of duties to the Customs and Border Protection of the Department
of Homeland Security.  These advances are
made as an accommodation for a select group of credit-worthy customers.  Cash advances are a “pass through” and are
not recorded as a component of revenue and expense.  The billings of such advances to customers
are accounted for as a direct increase in accounts receivable to the customer
and a corresponding increase in accounts payable to governmental customs
authorities.  As a result of these “pass
through” billings, the conventional Days Sales Outstanding or DSO calculation
does not directly measure collection efficiency.

Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31,
2005 was $91 million, as compared with $65 million during the same period of
2004.  The largest use of cash in
investing activities is cash paid for capital expenditures.  As a non-asset based provider of integrated
logistics services, the Company does not own any physical means of
transportation (i.e., airplanes, ships, trucks, etc.).  However, the Company does have need, on
occasion, to purchase buildings to house staff and to facilitate the staging of
customers’ freight.  The Company
routinely invests in technology, office furniture and equipment and leasehold
improvements.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
made capital expenditures of $91 million as compared with $66 million for the
same period in 2004.  Capital
expenditures in 2005 included $23 million for acquisitions of real estate and
office/warehouse facilities in Houston, Texas and Seattle, Washington.  In addition, the Company had real estate
development expenditures of $42 million related to projects in San Francisco
and Los Angeles, California, Seattle, Washington and Houston, Texas.  Other capital expenditures in 2005 and 2004 related
primarily to investments in technology, office furniture and equipment and
leasehold improvements.  The Company
currently expects to spend approximately $27 million for normal capital
expenditures in 2006.  In addition to
property and equipment, normal capital expenditures include leasehold
improvements, warehouse equipment, computer hardware and furniture and
fixtures.  Total capital expenditures in
2006 are currently estimated to be $165 million.  This includes normal capital expenditures as
noted above, plus additional real estate acquisitions and development required
to carry out the Company’s plan adopted under IRC 965.  The Company expects to finance capital
expenditures in 2006 with cash.

Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31,
2005 was $120 million as compared with $22 million for the same period in 2004.  The Company uses the proceeds from stock
option exercises to repurchase the Company’s stock on the open market.  In 2005, the Company established a policy of
repurchasing stock to prevent growth in issued and outstanding shares as a
result of stock option exercises.  The
increase in cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31,
2005 compared with the same period in 2004 is primarily the result of this new
policy.  During 2005 and 2004 the net use
of cash in financing activities included the payment of dividends of $.30 per
share and $.22 per share, respectively.

At December 31, 2005, working capital was $589
million, including cash and short-term investments of $464 million. The Company
had no long-term debt at December 31, 2005.

The Company maintains
international and domestic unsecured bank lines of credit.  At December 31, 2005, the United States
facility totaled $50 million and the international bank lines of credit,
excluding the U.K. bank facility, totaled $11 million.  In addition, the Company maintains a bank facility
with its U.K. bank for $12

million
which is available for short-term borrowings and issuances of standby letters
of credit.  At December 31, 2005,
the Company had no amounts outstanding on these lines of credit, but was
contingently liable for $56 million from standby letters of credit and
guarantees related to these lines of credit and other obligations.  The guarantees relate to obligations of the
Company’s foreign subsidiaries for credit extended in the ordinary course of
business by direct carriers, primarily airlines, and for duty and tax deferrals
available from governmental entities responsible for


customs and
value-added-tax (VAT) taxation.  The
total underlying amounts due and payable for transportation and governmental
excises are properly recorded as obligations in the books of the respective
foreign subsidiaries, and there would be no need to record additional expense
in the unlikely event the parent company were to be required to perform.

At December 31, 2005, the Company’s contractual
obligations and other commitments are as follows:

The Company enters into short-term agreements with
asset-based providers reserving space on a guaranteed basis.  The pricing of these obligations varies to
some degree with market conditions.  The
Company only enters into agreements that management believes the Company can fulfill
with relative ease.  Historically, the
Company has not paid for guaranteed space that it has not used.  Management believes, in line with historical
experience, committed purchase obligations outstanding as of December 31,
2005, will be fulfilled during 2006 in the Company’s ordinary course of
business.

The Company has a Non-Discretionary Stock Repurchase
Plan to repurchase shares from the proceeds of stock option exercises.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company had
repurchased and retired 7,150,850 shares of common stock at an average price of
$21.68 per share over the period from 1994 through 2005.  During 2005, 723,135 shares were repurchased
at an average price of $56.90 per share.

The Company has a
Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan under which Management is allowed to
repurchase such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding
stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. 
As of December 31, 2005, the Company had repurchased and retired
3,463,577 shares of common stock at an average price of $37.77 per share over
the period from 2001 through 2005. 
During 2005, 1,463,577 shares were repurchased at an average price of
$58.56.  These discretionary repurchases
were made to keep the number of issued and outstanding shares from growing as a
result of stock option exercises.

Management believes that the Company’s current cash
position, bank financing arrangements, and operating cash flows will be
sufficient to meet its capital and liquidity requirements for the foreseeable
future, including meeting any contingent liabilities related to standby letters
of credit and other obligations.

In some cases, the
Company’s ability to repatriate funds from foreign operations may be subject to
foreign exchange controls.  At December 31,
2005, cash and cash equivalent balances of $263 million were held by the
Company’s non-United States subsidiaries, of which $17 million was held in
banks in the United States.

Impact of Inflation

To date, the Company’s business has not been adversely
affected by inflation.  Direct carrier
rate increases could occur over the short- to medium-term period.  Due to the high degree of competition in the
market place, these rate increases can lead to an erosion in the Company’s
margins.  As the Company is not required
to purchase or maintain extensive property and equipment and has not otherwise
incurred substantial interest rate-sensitive indebtedness, the Company
currently has limited direct exposure to increased costs resulting from
increases in interest rates.


Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements

As of December 31,
2005, the Company did not have any material off-balance-sheet arrangements, as
defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
Regulation S-K.

ITEM 7A — QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company is exposed to market risks in the ordinary
course of its business.  These risks are
primarily related to foreign exchange risk and changes in short-term interest
rates.   The potential impact of the
Company’s exposure to these risks is presented below:

Foreign Exchange Risk

The Company conducts
business in many different countries and currencies.  The Company’s business often results in
revenue billings issued in a country and currency which differs from that where
the expenses related to the service are incurred.  In the ordinary course of business, the
Company creates numerous intercompany transactions.  This brings a market risk to the Company’s
earnings.

Foreign exchange rate
sensitivity analysis can be quantified by estimating the impact on the Company’s
earnings as a result of hypothetical changes in the value of the U.S. dollar,
the Company’s functional currency, relative to the other currencies in which
the Company transacts business.  All
other things being equal, an average 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar,
throughout the year ended December 31, 2005, would have had the effect of
raising operating income approximately $24 million.  An average 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar,
for the same period, would have the effect of reducing operating income
approximately $19 million.  This analysis
does not take into account changes in shipping patterns based upon this
hypothetical currency fluctuation.  For
example, a weakening in the U.S. dollar would be expected to increase exports from
the United States and depress imports into the United States over some relevant
period of time, but the exact affect of this change cannot be quantified
without making speculative assumptions.

As of December 31,
2005, the Company had approximately $2 million of net unsettled intercompany
transactions.  The Company currently does
not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk and
only enters into foreign currency hedging transactions in limited locations
where regulatory or commercial limitations restrict the Company’s ability to
move money freely.  Any such hedging
activity throughout the year ended December 31, 2005, was
insignificant.  The Company had no
foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004.  The Company instead follows a policy of
accelerating international currency settlements to manage foreign exchange risk
relative to intercompany billings.  The
majority of intercompany billings are resolved within 30 days and intercompany
billings arising in the normal course of business are fully settled within 90
days.

Interest Rate Risk

At December 31, 2005,
the Company had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $464
million, of which $342 million was invested at various short-term market
interest rates.  There were no short-term
borrowings at December 31, 2005.  A
hypothetical change in the interest rate of 10% would not have a significant
impact on the Company’s earnings.

In management’s opinion,
there has been no material change in the Company’s market risk exposure between
2004 and 2005.


ITEM 8 — FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The following documents
are filed on the pages listed below, as part of Part II, Item 8 of
this report.

ITEM 9 — CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A – CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Controls
and Procedures

As of December 31,
2005, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s
management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief
Financial Officer (CFO), an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures was performed.  Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO
have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are
effective to ensure that material information is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported by management of the Company on a timely basis in order
to comply with the Company’s disclosure obligations under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and the SEC rules thereunder.

Changes in Internal
Controls

There were no changes in
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

Management Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The management of
Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting
as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f).  The Company’s system of internal control over
financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Company’s
management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair
presentation of published financial statements. 
A system of internal control can provide only reasonable, not absolute
assurance, that the objectives of the control system are met.  Our management, including our chief executive
officer and chief financial officer, conducted an assessment of the design and
operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based
on the framework in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).


Based on this assessment,
our management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2005, our internal
control over financial reporting was effective.

KPMG LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, has issued an attestation report on
management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, which is included herein
at F-2.

ITEM 9B – OTHER
INFORMATION

Not applicable.


PART III

ITEM 10 — DIRECTORS AND
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required
by this item is incorporated by reference to information under the caption “Proposal
1 - Election of Directors” and to the information under the caption “Section 16(a) Reporting
Delinquencies” in the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its annual
meeting of shareholders to be held on May 3, 2006.  See also Part I - Item 1 - Executive
Officers of the Registrant.

Audit Committee and Audit
Committee Financial Expert

Our Board has a
separately-designated standing Audit Committee established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of
the Exchange Act.  The members of the
Audit Committee are James J. Casey, Dan P. Kourkoumelis, Michael J. Malone, and
John W. Meisenbach.  Our Board has
determined that James J. Casey, Chairman of the Audit Committee, is an audit
committee financial expert as defined by Item 401(h) of Regulation S-K of
the Exchange Act and that each member of the Audit Committee is independent
within the meaning of Rule 4200(a)(15) of the National Association of
Securities Dealers’ listing standards.

Code of Ethics and
Governance Guidelines

We have adopted a

Code of Business Conduct

that applies to
all Company employees including, of course, our principal executive officer,
principal financial officer and principal accounting officer.  The

Code
of Business Conduct

is posted on our website at

http://www.investor.expeditors.com

.  We will post any amendments to the

Code of Business Conduct

at that location.  No amendments
were made in 2005.  In the unlikely event
that the Board of Directors approves any sort of waiver to the

Code of Business Conduct

for our executive officers or directors, information concerning such
waiver will also be posted at that location. 
No waivers were granted in 2005. 
In addition to posting information regarding amendments and waivers on
our website, the same information will be included in a Current Report on Form 8-K
within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver, unless
website posting of such amendments or waivers is permitted by the rules of
The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.

ITEM 11 — EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION

The information required
by this item is incorporated by reference to information under the caption “Executive
Compensation” in the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its annual
meeting of shareholders to be held on May 3, 2006.

ITEM 12 — SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

The information required
by this item is incorporated by reference to information under the captions “Principal
Holders of Voting Securities” and “Proposal 1 - Election of Directors” in the
Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its annual meeting of shareholders to
be held on May 3, 2006.

Securities Authorized for
Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans

The following table
provides information as of December 31, 2005, regarding compensation plans
under which equity securities of the Company are authorized for issuance.

Equity Compensation Plan
Information

as of December 31,


ITEM 13 — CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required
by this item is incorporated by reference to information under the caption “Executive
Compensation” and “Certain Transactions” in the Company’s definitive Proxy
Statement for its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 3, 2006.

ITEM 14 – PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required
by this item is incorporated by reference to information under the caption “Relationship
with Independent Public Accountants” in the Company’s definitive Proxy
Statement for its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 3, 2006.


PART IV

ITEM 15 — EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

Other schedules are
omitted because of the absence of conditions under which they are required or
because the required information is given in the consolidated financial
statements or notes thereto.


3.

EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

The following list is a
subset of the list of exhibits described below and contains all compensatory plans,
contracts or arrangements in which any director or executive officer of the
Company is a participant, unless the method of allocation of benefits
thereunder is the same for management and non-management participants:


(b) EXHIBITS



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated on March 15, 2006.


EXPEDITORS
INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON, INC.

AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

COMPRISING ITEM 8

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

TO SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION FOR THE

YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
2005, 2004, AND 2003

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and
Shareholders

Expeditors International of
Washington, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, shareholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005. In
connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also
have audited the financial statement schedule II. These consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005,
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
effectiveness of Expeditors International of Washington, Inc.’s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established
in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 15,
2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment of, and the
effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.

F-1

Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Expeditors International of Washington, Inc.:

We have audited management’s assessment, included in
the accompanying

Management Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting

appearing under Item 9A, that Expeditors
International of Washington, Inc. maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that
Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in
all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control—
Integrated Framework issued by COSO. Also, in our opinion, Expeditors
International of Washington, Inc. maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005,
based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued
by COSO.

We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Expeditors International of
Washington, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders’ equity and
comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2005 and our report dated

March 15

, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements.

F-2

Consolidated Balance
Sheets

In thousands
except share data

December 31,

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.

F-3

Consolidated
Statements of Earnings

In thousands except share
data

Years ended December 31,

See accompanying
notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-4

Consolidated Statements
of Shareholders’ Equity

and Comprehensive Income

In thousands except share
data

Years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004

and 2003

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.

F-5

Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows

In thousands

Years
ended December 31,

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.

F-6

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

A.

Basis
of Presentation

Expeditors International
of Washington, Inc. (“the Company”) is a global logistics company
operating through a worldwide network of offices, international service centers
and exclusive or non-exclusive agents. The Company’s customers include
retailing and wholesaling, electronics, and manufacturing companies around the
world.  The Company grants credit upon
approval to customers.

International trade is
influenced by many factors, including economic and political conditions in the
United States and abroad, currency exchange rates, and United States and
foreign laws and policies relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, foreign
investments and taxation.  Periodically,
governments consider a variety of changes to current tariffs and trade restrictions.  The Company cannot predict which, if any, of
these proposals may be adopted, nor can the Company predict the effects
adoption of any such proposal will have on the Company’s business.  Doing business in foreign locations also
subjects the Company to a variety of risks and considerations not normally
encountered by domestic enterprises.  In
addition to being affected by governmental policies concerning international
trade, the Company’s business may also be affected by political developments
and changes in government personnel or policies in the nations in which it does
business.

The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries
stated in U.S. dollars, the Company’s functional currency.  In addition, the consolidated financial
statements also include the accounts of operating entities where the Company
maintains a parent-subsidiary relationship through unilateral control over
assets and operations together with responsibility for payment of all liabilities,
notwithstanding a lack of technical majority ownership of the subsidiary common
stock.

All significant
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

All dollar amounts in the
notes are presented in thousands except for share data.

B.

Cash
Equivalents

All highly liquid
investments with a maturity of three months or less at date of purchase are
considered to be cash equivalents.

C.

Short-term
Investments

Short-term investments
are designated as available-for-sale and cost approximates market at December 31,
2005 and 2004.

D.

Accounts
Receivable

The Company maintains an
allowance for doubtful accounts, which is reviewed at least monthly for
estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required
payments for services.  Additional
allowances may be necessary in the future if the ability of its customers to
pay deteriorates.

E.

Long-Lived
Assets, Depreciation and Amortization

Property and equipment
are recorded at cost and are depreciated or amortized on the straight-line
method over the shorter of the assets’ estimated useful lives or lease terms.
Useful lives for major categories of property and equipment are as follows:

Buildings

28 to 40 years

Furniture, fixtures,
  equipment and purchased software

3 to 5 years

Vehicles

3 to 5 years

Expenditures

for maintenance,
repairs, and renewals of minor items are charged to earnings as incurred.  Major renewals and improvements are
capitalized.  Upon disposition, the cost
and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the
resulting gain or loss is included in income for the period.

Effective
January 1, 2002, the Company ceased to amortize goodwill.  Goodwill is recorded net of accumulated
amortization of $765 at December 31, 2005 and 2004.  For the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004, the Company performed the required annual impairment test during the
fourth quarter and determined that no impairment had occurred.

F-7

Other intangibles
consist principally of payments made to purchase customer lists of agents in
countries where the Company established its own presence by opening
offices.  Other intangible assets are
amortized over their estimated useful lives for periods up to 15 years and are
reviewed for impairment if an event or circumstance indicates that an
impairment loss may have been incurred.

Balances as of December 31 are as follows:

Estimated annual
amortization expense will approximate $1,400 during each of the next five
years.

F.

Revenues
and Revenue Recognition

The Company derives its revenues from
three principal sources: 1) airfreight, 2) ocean freight, and 3) customs
brokerage and other services.  These are
the revenue categories presented in the financial statements.

As a non-asset based carrier, the Company
does not own transportation assets. 
Rather, the Company generates the major portion of its air and ocean
freight revenues by purchasing transportation services from direct
(asset-based) carriers and reselling those services to its customers.   The difference between the rate billed to
customers (the sell rate), and the rate paid to the carrier (the buy rate) is
termed “net revenue” or “yield”.  By
consolidating shipments from multiple customers and concentrating its buying
power, the Company is able to negotiate favorable buy rates from the direct
carriers, while at the same time offering lower sell rates than customers would
otherwise be able to negotiate themselves.

Airfreight revenues include the charges
to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a freight
consolidator.  Ocean freight revenues
include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company
acts as a Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC).  In each case the Company is acting as an
indirect carrier.  When acting as an
indirect carrier, the Company will issue a House Airway Bill (HAWB) or a House
Ocean Bill of Lading (HOBL) to customers as the contract of carriage.  In turn, when the freight is physically
tendered to a direct carrier, the Company receives a contract of carriage known
as a Master Airway Bill for airfreight shipments and a Master Ocean Bill of
Lading for ocean shipments.  At this
point, the risk of loss passes to the carrier, however, in order to claim for
any such loss, the customer is first obligated to pay the freight charges.

Based upon the terms in the contract of
carriage, revenues related to shipments where the Company issues an HAWB or an
HOBL are recognized at the time the freight is tendered to the direct carrier
at origin.  Costs related to the
shipments are also recognized at this same time.

Revenues realized in other capacities,
for instance, when the Company acts as an agent for the shipper, and does not
issue an HAWB or an HOBL, include only the commissions and fees earned for the
services performed.  These revenues are
recognized upon completion of the services.

Customs brokerage and other services
involves providing services at destination, such as helping customers clear
shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and
providing for payment of duties and other taxes on behalf of the customers as
well as arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and
arranging for delivery.   This is a
complicated function requiring technical knowledge of customs rules and
regulations in the multitude of countries in which the Company has
offices.  Revenues related to customs
brokerage and other services are recognized upon completion of the services.

Arranging international
shipments is a complex task.  Each actual
movement can require multiple services. 
In some instances, the Company is asked to perform only one of these
services.  However, in most instances,
the Company may perform multiple services. 
These services include destination breakbulk services and value added
ancillary services such as local transportation, export customs formalities,
distribution services and logistics management. 
Each of these services has an associated fee which is recognized as revenue
upon completion of the service.

Typically, the fees for
each of these services are quoted as separate components, however, customers on
occasion will request an all-inclusive rate for a set of services known in the
industry as “door-to-door service.”  This
means that the customer is billed a single rate for all services from pickup at
origin to delivery at destination.  In
these instances, the revenue for origin and destination services, as well as
revenue that will be characterized as freight charges, is allocated to branches
as set by preexisting Company policy perhaps

F-8

supplemented by customer
specific negotiations between the offices involved.  Each of the Company’s branches are
independent profit centers and the primary compensation for the branch
management group comes in the form of incentive-based compensation calculated
directly from the operating income of that branch.  This compensation structure ensures that the
allocation of revenue and expense among components of services, when provided
under an all-inclusive rate, are done in an objective manner on a fair value
basis in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 00-21, “Revenue
Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.”

G.

Income
Taxes

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and
liability method of accounting.  Under
this method, deferred tax assets and

liabilities

are recognized for the
future tax consequences attributed to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases, the tax effect of loss carryforwards and tax credit
carryforwards.  Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable
income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled.  The effect on
deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in
income in the period that includes the enactment date.

H.

Net
Earnings per Common Share

Diluted earnings per
share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares and
dilutive potential common shares outstanding. 
Dilutive potential common shares represent outstanding stock options.  Basic earnings per share is calculated using
the weighted average number of common shares outstanding without taking into
consideration dilutive potential common shares outstanding.

I.

Stock
Option Plans

The Company applies APB
Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and related
interpretations in accounting for its stock option and its employee stock
purchase rights plans.  Accordingly, no
compensation cost has been recognized for its fixed stock option or employee
stock purchase rights plans.  Had
compensation cost for the Company’s three stock based compensation and employee
stock purchase rights plans been determined consistent with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, the Company’s net earnings,
basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share would have been reduced
to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

See Note 5B. for
information on the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of option grants.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS No. 123R),
which replaces SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”
(SFAS No. 123) and supercedes APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees.”  SFAS No. 123R
requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee
stock options and employee stock purchase plans, to be recognized in the
financial statements based on their fair values.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 123R as of January 1,
2006.  The adoption of SFAS No. 123R
will have a material impact on the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated
results of operations, earnings per share and consolidated statement of cash
flows.  See Note 1N for further
discussion of SFAS No. 123R.

F-9

J.

Foreign
Currency

Foreign currency amounts
attributable to foreign operations have been translated into U.S. dollars using
year-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, historical rates for
equity, and weighted average rates for revenues and expenses.  Unrealized gains or losses arising from
fluctuations in the year-end exchange rates are generally recorded as
components of other comprehensive income as adjustments from foreign currency
translation.  Currency fluctuations are a
normal operating factor in the conduct of the Company’s business and exchange
transaction gains and losses are generally included in freight consolidation expenses.

The Company follows a
policy of accelerating international currency settlements to manage its foreign
exchange exposure.  Accordingly, the
Company enters into foreign currency hedging transactions only in limited locations
where there are regulatory or commercial limitations on the Company’s ability
to move money freely around the world. 
Such hedging activity during 2005, 2004, and 2003 was
insignificant.  Net foreign currency
gains realized during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $862, $86 and $588, respectively.  The Company had no foreign currency
derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004.

K.

Comprehensive
Income

Comprehensive income
consists of net earnings and other gains and losses affecting shareholders’
equity that, under generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States, are excluded from net earnings. 
For the Company, these consist of foreign currency translation gains and
losses and unrealized gains and losses on securities, net of related income tax
effects.

Accumulated other
comprehensive income consists of the following:

L.

Segment
Reporting

The Company is organized
functionally in geographic operating segments. 
Accordingly, management focuses its attention on revenues, net revenues,
operating income, identifiable assets, capital expenditures, depreciation and
amortization and equity generated in

each
of these geographical areas when evaluating effectiveness of geographic
management.  The Company charges its
subsidiaries and affiliates for services rendered in the United States on a
cost recovery basis.  Transactions among
the Company’s various offices are conducted using the same arms-length pricing
methodologies the Company uses when its offices transact business with
independent agents.

M.

Use
of Estimates

The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of the assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.  Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

N.

Recent
Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised
2004), “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS No. 123R), which replaces SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (SFAS No. 123) and supercedes
APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.”  SFAS No. 123R requires all share-based
payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options and employee
stock purchase plans, to be recognized in the financial statements based on
their fair values, beginning with the first interim or annual period of the
registrant's first fiscal year beginning on or after June 15, 2005, with
early adoption encouraged.  In addition,
SFAS No. 123R will cause unrecognized expense (based on the amount in the
Company’s pro forma footnote disclosure) related to options vesting after the
date of initial adoption to be recognized as a charge to results of operations
over the remaining vesting period.  The
Company has adopted SFAS No. 123R as of January 1, 2006.  Under SFAS No. 123R, the Company must
determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share-based
payments, the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition
method to be used at the date of adoption. 
The Company will continue to use the Black-Scholes model for valuing
option expense and will amortize the compensation expense using the
straight-line prorated method.  The Company
has elected to use the modified retrospective method of transitioning to SFAS No. 123R.  Under the modified retrospective method,
beginning with the report on form 10-Q for the first

F-10

quarter of 2006, the Company will restate all periods presented.  The adoption of SFAS No. 123R will have
a material impact on the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated results
of operations, earnings per share and consolidated statement of cash flows.

NOTE 2.

OTHER ASSETS

The Company regularly
evaluates the recoverability of certain other assets.  During the second quarter of 2004, the
Company determined that an impairment had occurred and accordingly, a $2,000
loss was recorded as an operating expense. 
No impairment occurred in 2005 or 2003.

NOTE 3.

CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS

The Company has a $50,000
United States bank line of credit extending through July 1, 2006.  Borrowings under the line bear interest at
LIBOR + .75% (5.14% at December 31, 2005) and are unsecured.  As of December 31, 2005, the entire
$50,000 was available and the Company had no borrowings under this line.

The majority of the
Company’s foreign subsidiaries maintain bank lines of credit for short-term
working capital purposes.  These credit
lines are supported by standby letters of credit issued by a United States
bank, or guarantees issued by the Company to the foreign banks issuing the
credit line.  Lines of credit totaling $12,850
and $13,545 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, bear interest at
rates up to 4% over the foreign banks’ equivalent prime rates.  At December 31, 2005, the Company had no
amounts outstanding under these lines and was contingently liable for
approximately $55,639 under outstanding standby letters of credit and
guarantees related to these lines of credit and other obligations.  At December 31, 2004, the Company had $2,250
of borrowings under these credit lines.

The guarantees relate to
obligations of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries for credit extended in the
ordinary course of business by direct carriers, primarily airlines, and for
duty and tax deferrals available from governmental entities responsible for
customs and value-added-tax (VAT) taxation. 
The total underlying amounts due and payable for transportation and
governmental excises are properly recorded as obligations in the books of the
respective foreign subsidiaries, and there would be no need to record
additional expense in the unlikely event the parent company were to be required
to perform.

At December 31,
2005, the Company was in compliance with all restrictive covenants of these
credit lines and the associated credit facilities, including maintenance of
certain minimum asset, working capital and equity balances and ratios.

NOTE 4.

INCOME TAXES

Income tax expense
for 2005, 2004, and 2003 includes the following components:

F-11

Income tax expense
differs from amounts computed by applying the United States Federal income tax
rate of 35% to earnings before income taxes and minority interest as a result
of the following:

In accordance with IRC
965, the Company recorded a one-time tax benefit of $22 million in the fourth
quarter of 2005.  In order to qualify for
this credit, the Company adopted a plan which requires qualified capital
expenditures of approximately $105 million over the next two to three years.

In the fourth quarter of
2003, the Company recorded additional tax expense of $9,500 in order to provide
full U.S. taxation on approximately $41,900 of foreign earnings accumulated
through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been
provided.  Income taxes had not
previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Company's
previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in
a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred.  The Company's decision to provide U.S. taxes
on all unremitted foreign earnings was made based upon the desire to be able to
deploy capital globally without concern for the impact of associated U.S. tax
obligations that might be incurred as a result of the repatriation of those
earnings.  Also, during the fourth
quarter of 2003, the Company eliminated $8,000 of certain taxes which the
Company had previously expected to pay. 
Upon analysis of the state tax implications of the Company's pattern of
remitting foreign earnings, the Company determined that these taxes were not owed.

The components of
earnings before income taxes and minority interest are as follows:

The tax effects of

temporary

differences, tax credits and operating loss carryforwards that give rise
to significant portions of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31,
2005 and 2004 are as follows:

NOTE
5.

SHAREHOLDERS’
EQUITY

A.

Stock
Repurchase Plans

The Company has a
Non-Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan under which management is authorized to
repurchase up to 10,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock in the open
market with the proceeds received from the exercise of Employee and Director
Stock Options.  As of December 31,
2005, the Company had repurchased and retired 7,150,850 shares of common stock
at an average price of $21.68 per share over the period from 1994 through 2005.

In November 2001, the Board of Directors
expanded the Company’s Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan to allow for the
repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and
outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company had
repurchased and retired 3,463,577 shares of common stock at an average price of
$37.77 per share over the period from 2001 through 2005.

F-12

B.

Stock
Option Plans

At December 31,
2005, the Company has two stock option plans (the “1985 Plan” and the “2005
Plan”) for employees under which the Board of Directors may grant officers and
key employees options to purchase common stock at prices equal to or greater
than market value on the date of grant. 
On May 4, 2005, the shareholders approved the Company’s 2005 Plan,
which made available a total of 1,500,000 shares of the Company’s common stock
for purchase upon exercise of options granted under the 2005 Plan.  This included 595,450 shares otherwise
available to be granted under the 1997 Option Plan.  This 1997 Option Plan was cancelled upon the
approval of the 2005 Plan. The 1985 Plan provides for non-qualified
grants.  The 2005 Plan provides for
qualified and non-qualified grants. Under the 1985 Plan and 2005 Plan,
outstanding options generally vest and become exercisable over periods up to
five years from the date of grant and expire no more than 10 years from the
date of grant. Grants under the 2005 Plan are limited to not more than 50,000
shares per person.  No additional shares
can be granted under the 2005 Plan after April 30, 2006.

The Company also has a
stock option plan (“Directors’ Plan”) under which non-employee directors
elected at each annual meeting are granted non-qualified options to purchase
16,000 shares of common stock at prices equal to the market value on the date
of grant on the first business day of the month following the meeting.

Upon the exercise
of non-qualified stock options and disqualifying dispositions of incentive
stock options, the Company derives a tax deduction measured by the excess of
the market value over the option price at the date of exercise.  The related tax benefit is credited to
additional paid-in capital.

Details regarding
the plans are as follows:

The fair value of
each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following assumptions used for grants:

F-13

The following table
summarizes information about fixed-price stock options outstanding at December 31,
2005:

The number of
stock options exercisable at December 31, 2004 and 2003, were
respectively, 5,151,718, at a weighted average price of $15.69 per share, and
5,044,030, at a weighted average price of $10.97 per share.

C.

Basic
and Diluted Earnings Per Share

The following table
reconciles the numerator and the denominator of the basic and diluted per share
computations for earnings per share in 2005, 2004 and 2003.

The following shares have
been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the
effect would have been antidilutive:

Years ended December 31,




Shares


64,000

1,797,750

D.

Stock
Purchase Plan

In May 2002, the
shareholders approved the Company’s 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“2002
Plan”), which became effective August 1, 2002 upon the expiration of the
1988 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“1988 Plan”) on July 31, 2002.  The Company’s 2002 Plan provides for
2,152,726 shares of the Company’s common stock, including 152,726 remaining
shares transferred from the 1988 Plan, to be reserved for issuance upon
exercise of purchase rights granted to employees who elect to participate
through regular payroll deductions beginning August 1 of each year.  The purchase rights are exercisable on July 31
of the following year at a price equal to the lesser of (1) 85% of the
fair market value of the Company’s stock on July 31 or (2) 85% of the
fair market value of the Company’s stock on the preceding August 1.  At December 31, 2005, an aggregate of
1,198,382 shares had been issued under the 2002 Plan, and $8,458 had been
withheld in connection with the plan year ending July 31, 2006.

F-14

NOTE 6.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL
  INSTRUMENTS

The Company’s financial
instruments, other than cash, consist primarily of cash equivalents, short-term
investments, accounts receivable, short-term debt, accounts payable and accrued
expenses.  The fair values of these
financial instruments approximate their carrying amounts based upon market
interest rates or their short-term nature.

NOTE 7.

COMMITMENTS

A.

Leases

The Company occupies
office and warehouse facilities under terms of operating leases expiring up to
2013.  Total rent expense for 2005, 2004
and 2003 was $34,488, $33,197 and $31,206, respectively.  At December 31, 2005, future minimum
annual lease payments under all leases are as follows:

B.

Unconditional Purchase
Obligations

The Company enters into short-term agreements with
asset-based providers reserving space on a guaranteed basis.  The pricing of these obligations varies to
some degree with market conditions.  The
Company only enters into agreements that management believes the Company can
fulfill with relative ease. 
Historically, the Company has not paid for guaranteed space that it has
not used.  Management believes, in line
with historical experience, committed purchase obligations outstanding as of December 31,
2005 of $314,072, will be fulfilled during 2006 in the Company’s ordinary
course of business.

C.

Employee

Benefits

The Company has employee
savings plans under which the Company provides a discretionary matching
contribution.   In 2005, 2004, and 2003,
the Company’s contributions under the plans were $5,183, $4,383, and $3,977,
respectively.

NOTE 8.

CONTINGENCIES

The Company is ordinarily
involved in claims and lawsuits which arise in the normal course of business,
none of which currently, in management’s opinion, will have a significant
affect on the Company’s operations or financial position.

F-15

NOTE 9.

BUSINESS SEGMENT
  INFORMATION

Financial information
regarding the Company’s 2005, 2004, and 2003 operations by geographic area are
as follows:

The Company charges its
subsidiaries and affiliates for services rendered in the United States on a
cost recovery basis.

F-16

No single country outside
the United States represented more than 10% of the Company’s total revenue, net
revenue or total identifiable assets in any period presented except as noted in
the table below.

*Represents less than 10%
in the period presented.

NOTE 10.

QUARTERLY
RESULTS (UNAUDITED)

Net

revenues

are determined by
deducting freight consolidation costs from total revenues.  The sum of quarterly per share data may not
equal the per share total reported for the year.

The fourth quarter 2005 results include a $21,680 tax benefit ($.19 per
share increase in net earnings) as a result of a one-time election under IRC
965.

F-17

SCHEDULE II

EXPEDITORS
INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON, INC.

VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

FOR THE YEARS
ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004, AND 2003

S-1

SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C.

ANNUAL REPORT

ON

FORM 10-K

FOR FISCAL YEAR
ENDED

DECEMBER 31,

EXPEDITORS
INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON, INC.

EXHIBITS

INDEX TO EXHIBITS