Item 1. Business

General

(including Argenta, BioFocus, VivoPath, ChanTest, Sunrise, Celsis, Oncotest and

WIL Research) and the timing of closing of in-process acquisitions

;

our expectations with respect to revenue growth and operating synergies (including the impact of specific actions intended to cause related improvements); the impact of specific actions intended to improve overall operating efficiencies and profitability (and our ability to accommodate future demand with our infrastructure), including gains and losses attributable to businesses we plan to close, consolidate or divest; changes in our expectations regarding future stock option, restricted stock, performance share units and other equity grants to employees and directors; expectations with respect to foreign currency exchange; assessing (or changing our assessment of) our tax positions for financial statement purposes; and our liquidity. In addition, these statements include the impact of economic and market conditions on us and our clients; the effects of our cost-saving actions and the steps to optimize returns to shareholders on an effective and timely basis.

You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document or in the case of statements incorporated by reference, on the date of the document incorporated by reference. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Form 10-K under the sections entitled “Our Strategy,” “Risk Factors,” "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in our press releases and other financial filings with the SEC. We have no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or risks. New information, future events or risks may cause the forward-looking events we discuss in this report not to occur.

Corporate History

We began operating in 1947 and since then, we have undergone several changes to our business structure. Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. was incorporated in 1994 and in 2000 we completed our initial public offering. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CRL” and is included in the Standard & Poor's MidCap 400 and Composite 1500 indices, the Dow Jones U.S. Biotechnology Index, the NYSE Arca Biotechnology Index, the NYSE Composite and Healthcare Sector indices, and many of the Russell indices, among others. We are headquartered in Wilmington, Massachusetts. Our headquarters mailing address is 251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA, 01887, and the telephone number at that location is (781) 222-6000. Our Internet site iswww.criver.com. Material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to “Charles River,” “we,” “us” “the Company” or “our” refer to Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

This Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed with the SEC, are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet site as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington,










DC 20549. In addition, you may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Overview

We are a full service, early-stage contract research organization (CRO). We have built upon our core competency of laboratory animal medicine and science (research model technologies) to develop a diverse portfolio of discovery and safety assessment services, both Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and non-GLP, which is able to support our clients from target identification through preclinical development. We also provide a suite of products and services to support our clients’ manufacturing activities.Utilizing our broad portfolio of products and services enables our clients to create a more flexible drug development model, which reduces their costs, enhances their productivity and effectiveness and increases speed to market.

Discoveryrepresents the earliest stages of research in the life sciences, directed at the identification, screening and selection of a lead molecule for future drug development. Discovery activities typically extend anywhere from 4-6 years in conventional pharmaceutical research and development timelines.

Developmentactivities, which follow, and which can take up to 7-10 years, are directed at demonstrating thesafety, tolerabilityandclinical efficacyof the selected drug candidates. During the preclinical stage of the development process, a drug candidate is testedin vitro(non-animal, typically on a cellular or sub-cellular level in a test tube or multi-well petri plate) andin vivo(in research models) to support planned or on-going human trials.

The development of new drugs requires the steadily increasing investment of time and money. Various studies and reports estimate that it takes between 10-15 years, up to $2.0 billion, and exploration of between 5,000 and 10,000 drug molecules to produce a single Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug. We are positioned to leverage our leading portfolio in early-stage drug researchin an efficient and cost-effective way to aid our clients in bringing their drugs to market faster. Our clients reduce their costs, increase their speed and improve their productivity and effectiveness in early-stage discovery and development by using our broad portfolio of products and services.

For nearly 70 years, we have been in the business of providing the research models required in research and development of new drugs, devices and therapies. Over this time, we have built upon our core competency ofin vivobiology to develop a diverse and expanding portfolio of products and services, which now encompasses the broader early-stage drug research process. Our client base includes global pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, government agencies and hospitals and academic institutions around the world. We currently operate 64 facilities in 18 countries worldwide,which numbers exclude our Insourcing Solutions (IS) sites. Our products and services, supported by our global infrastructure and deep scientific expertise, enable our clients to overcome many of the challenges of early-stage life sciences research. In 2015, our total revenue was$1.4 billionand our operating income from continuing operations, before income taxes, was $195.4 million.

We have three reporting segments: Research Models and Services (RMS), Discovery and Safety Assessment (DSA), and Manufacturing Support (Manufacturing).

Through our RMS segment, we have been supplying research models to the drug development industry since 1947. With over 150 different strains, we continue to maintain our position as the global leader in the production and sale of the most widely used rodent research model strains, principally genetically and microbiologically defined purpose-bred rats and mice. We also provide a variety of related services that are designed to assist our clients in supporting the use of research models in drug discovery and development. With multiple facilities located on three continents (North America, Europe and Asia), we maintain production centers, including barrier rooms and/or isolator facilities. In 2015, RMS accounted for34.7%of our total revenue and approximately 3,100 of our employees, including approximately 75 science professionals with advanced degrees.

Our DSA business segment provides services that enable our clients to outsource their innovative drug discovery research, their critical, regulatory-required safety assessment testing and related drug discovery and development activities to us. The demand for these services has historically been driven by the needs of large global pharmaceutical companies that exceeded their internal capacity and by the needs of biotechnology companies and non-profits who traditionally outsourced most of their discovery and development programs. Global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies choose to outsource their discovery and development activities because outsourcing reduces the significant investment in personnel, facilities and other capital resources necessary to efficiently and effectively conduct required scientific studies.

We are one of the two largest providers of drug discovery and preclinical development services worldwide and offer a comprehensive portfolio of target discovery through safety assessment studies required for regulatory submission. We have extensive expertise in the discovery of small molecule clinical candidates and in the design, execution and reporting of safety










assessment studies for both small and large molecules. We currently provide discovery and safety assessment services at multiple facilities located in the United States (U.S.), Canada and Europe. Our DSA segment represented44.9%of our total revenue in 2015 and employed approximately 3,900 of our employees including approximately 630 science professionals with advanced degrees.

Through our Manufacturing segment, we help ensure the safe production and release of products manufactured by our clients. Our Microbial Solutions (formerly known as Endotoxin and Microbial Detection or EMD) business providesin vitromethods for conventional and rapid quality control testing of sterile and non-sterile biopharmaceuticals and consumer products. Our Avian Vaccine Services business provides specific-pathogen-free (SPF) fertile chicken eggs and chickens used in the manufacture of live viruses. Our Biologics Testing Solutions business provides specialized testing of biologics and devices frequently outsourced by global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.

In 2015, Manufacturing accounted for20.4%of our total revenue from continuing operations and approximately 1,200 of our employees, including approximately 65 science professionals with advanced degrees.

In recent years, we have focused our efforts on unifying our businesses and improving the efficiency of our global operations to enhance our ability to support our key clients. Our key pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients are increasingly seeking full service, “one-stop” global partners to whom they can outsource more of their drug discovery and development efforts. It is estimated that the market for regulated safety assessment services is at least 50% outsourced, while emerging growth areas such asin vivodiscovery and certain research model services are currently believed to be less outsourced.

Research Models and Services (RMS).Our RMS segment is comprised of (1) Research Models and (2) Research Model Services.

Research Models.Our Research Models business is comprisedof the production and sale of research models.

Research Models.A significant portion of this business is comprised of the commercial production and sale of research models, principally purpose-bred rats and mice for use by researchers. We provide our rodent models to numerous clients around the world, including most pharmaceutical companies, a broad range of biotechnology companies and many government agencies, hospitals and academic institutions.We have a global footprint with production facilities strategically located in eight countries, in close proximity to our clients. Our research models include standard stocks and strains and disease models such as those with compromised immune systems, which are in demand as early-stage research tools. TheFDAand foreign regulatory bodies typically require that the safety and efficacy of new drug candidates be tested on research models like ours prior to testing in humans. As a result, our research models are an essential part of the drug discovery and development process.

Our rodent species have been, and continue to be, some of the most extensively used research models in the world, largely as a result of our continuous commitment to innovation and quality. Our research models are bred and maintained in controlled environments, which are designed to ensure that the models are free of specific viral and bacterial agents and other contaminants that can disrupt research operations and distort results. With our production capabilities, we are able to deliver consistently high-quality research models worldwide.

Our research models include:

•outbred, which are purposefully bred for heterogeneity;

•inbred, which are bred to be homogeneous;

•spontaneous mutant, which contain a naturally occurring genetic mutation (such as immune deficiency);

•hybrid, which are the offspring of two different inbred parents; and

•other genetically modified research models, such as knock-out models with one or more disabled genes and transgenic models.

Certain of our research models are proprietary, disease-specific rodent models used to find new treatments for diseases such as diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular and kidney disease.

We are also a premier provider of high quality, purpose bred, SPF large research models to the biomedical research community.

Research Model Services.RMS also offers a variety of services designed to support our clients' use of research models in basic research and screening preclinical drug candidates. These services address the need among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource the non-core aspects of their drug discovery activities. Our services include those which are related to the maintenance and monitoring of research models, and managing research operations for government entities, academic










organizations and commercial clients. We currently have three service offerings in research models services: Genetically Engineered Models and Services, Insourcing Solutions and Research Animal Diagnostic Services.

Genetically Engineered Models and Services (GEMS).We breed and maintain research models purchased or purposefully created by our clients for biomedical research activities. The creation of a genetically engineered model (GEM) is a critical scientific event, but it is only the first step in the discovery process. Productive utilization of GEMs requires significant additional technical expertise in order to properly support basic and early discovery research. We provide breeding expertise and colony development, quarantine, health and genetic testing and monitoring, germplasm cryopreservation, and rederivation including assisted reproduction. Our team of project managers is supported by a technologically advanced system Internet Colony Management (ICM™) that allows for real-time data exchange. We provide these services to clients around the world, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, hospitals, universities and government agencies.

Insourcing Solutions (IS).We manage research operations (including recruitment, training, staffing and management services) for government entities, academic organizations and commercial clients. Research institutions prefer to outsource staffing and management while retaining certain elements of their research in-house thus driving demand for our services. We believe that our expertise in early-stage drug research, and in particular research model care, scientific and technical support, facility operations, and discovery and development services, enhances the productivity and quality of our clients' research programs.

Research Animal Diagnostic Services (RADS).We monitor and analyze the health profiles of research models and cell lines used by our clients. We developed this capability internally in order to address the diagnostic needs of our own research model business. We are able to serve as their sole-source testing laboratory, or as an alternative source supporting our clients’ internal laboratory capabilities. We believe we are the reference laboratory of choice for health testing of laboratory research models and an industry leader in the field of animal diagnostics.

Discovery and Safety Assessment (DSA)

We currently offer discovery and safety assessment services, both regulated and non-regulated, in which we include bothin vivoandin vitrostudies, supporting laboratory services, and strategic preclinical consulting and program management to support product development.

Discovery Services.We offer a full spectrum of discovery services from identification of a novel druggable target, followed by high-throughput screening and medical chemistry, through delivery of preclinical drug and therapeutic candidates ready for safety assessment. In 2014, we integrated our Early Discovery andIn VivoDiscovery businesses into a single business line - Discovery Services - as part of our continued efforts to streamline and enhance the support we can provide for clients’ integrated drug discovery programs. One seamless discovery organization allows us to better engage with clients at the earliest stages of drug discovery and support their complex scientific needs. We support a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, central nervous system, bone and musculoskeletal, inflammation, metabolic diseases, respiratory and fibrotic diseases, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, genito-urinary and ophthalmology. We also provide expertise in the growing area of rare and orphan diseases, which are typically diseases of high unmet medical need in smaller patient populations, such as cystic fibrosis and Huntington’s Disease. We believe there are emerging opportunities to assist our clients in a variety of drug discovery applications and platforms from target discovery to candidate selection.

Early Discovery.We are a global leader in integrated drug discovery services, with a predominant focus onin vitrobiology capabilities and medicinal chemistry. Our knowledge and expertise allow us to support our clients as they drive their programs forward through design and implementation of clear program plans. Our full suite of service offerings allows us to support our clients at the earliest stages of their research, and to stay with them through the entire early-stage process. Our Early Discovery service capabilities include: target discovery and validation, hit identification, medicinal chemistry and testing how a drug is absorbed, distributed in the body, metabolized and excreted (ADME). We also offer ion channel testing andin vitrocardiac safety assessment services, for both discovery and preclinical purposes. These services extend from the early discovery screening process through toin vitroGLP safety assessment testing.

In Vivo Discovery Services.In VivoDiscovery Services represents the earliestin vivostages of drug research, directed at the identification, screening and selection of a lead compound for drug development.In vivoactivities typically extend anywhere from 4-6 years in conventional pharmaceutical research and development timelines. We offer research and development expertise, capabilities, and services globally to accelerate our clients' drug discovery pipelines from lead generation to candidate selection and on occasion, completingin vivostudies in support of clinical efforts or post-marketing work. We complement clients' capabilities and expertise to improve their decision-making, increase their flexibility, and reduce their internal costs and product development timelines. In addition, we providein vitroandin vivoassays in support of lead optimization to candidate selection activities. Examples of this include early pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies andin vitroandin










vivoassays to assess mechanism, bioavailability, metabolism, efficacy, and safety pharmacology. Furthermore, our November 2015 acquisition of Oncotest, a Germany-based CRO providing discovery services for oncology, complements our existing business in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom (U.K.) and Finland.

Safety Assessment.We offer a full range of discovery and safety assessment studies required for regulatory submission on a global basis.

Bioanalysis, Pharmacokinetics and Drug Metabolism.In support of preclinical drug safety testing, our clients are required to demonstrate appropriate exposure, stability in the collected sample, kinetics of their drug or compound in circulation, the presence of metabolites, and, with biologics, the presence or absence of anti-drug antibodies. We have scientific depth in the sophisticated bioanalytical techniques required to satisfy these requirements for a number of drug classes. After performing sample analysis in support of preclinical studies, we have the opportunity to capture the benefits of bridging the preclinical bioanalysis with subsequent clinical development. Once the analysis is complete, our scientists evaluate the data to provide information on the pharmacokinetics and/or toxicokinetics of the drug, and complete an evaluation of the distribution of the drug or metabolites. Pharmacokinetics refers to understanding what the body does to a drug or compound once administered, including the process by which the drug is absorbed, distributed in the body, metabolized and excreted (ADME); toxicokinetics refers to the same understanding as applied at higher doses that may result in adverse effects. These studies are required for the full preclinical assessment of the disposition of the drug and the results are used in the final preclinical safety evaluation of the compound.

In support of preclinical drug safety testing, our clients are required to demonstrate that the compound does not have the potential to prolong the cardiac QT interval. We have the assays and can perform the screening for this demonstration that is required for an investigational new drug submission.

Toxicology.Toxicology is one of our nonclinical competencies and a competitive strength. We have expertise in the design and execution of development programs in support of both chemically-derived (small molecule) and biotechnology-derived (large molecule) pharmaceuticals. Once a lead molecule is selected, toxicology studies are required to support clinical trials in humans and new drug registrations. These toxicology studies focus on assessing the safety of the molecule to determine if administration of the molecules to humans might cause any unintended harmful effects. These studies are typically performed in research models to identify any potential adverse effects that a compound has on an organism over a variety of doses and over various time periods.

Our toxicology services feature:

•a broad offering ofin vitroandin vivocapabilities and study types designed to identify possible safety risks for potential therapeutics as they transition from discovery into regulated drug development toxicology and human clinical testing;

•all the standardin vitroandin vivostudies in support of general toxicology (acute, sub-acute and chronic studies), genetic toxicology, safety pharmacology and carcinogenicity bioassays that are required for regulatory submissions supporting “first-in-human” to “first-to-the-market” strategies;

•expertise in standard and specialty routes of administration (e.g., infusion, intravitreal, intrathecal, and inhalation) that are important not only for the testing of potential pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals, but also for the safety testing of medical devices, industrial chemicals, food additives, agrochemicals, biocides, nutraceuticals, animal health products and other materials;

•expertise in the conduct and assessment of reproductive and developmental toxicology studies (in support of larger-scale and later-stage human clinical trials);

•services in important specialty areas such as ocular, bone, juvenile/neonatal, immune-toxicology, photobiology and dermal testing;

•expertise in all major therapeutic areas;

•study design and strategic advice to our clients based on our wealth of experience and scientific expertise in support of drug development; and

•a strong history of assisting our clients in achieving their regulatory and/or internal milestones for the safety testing of numerous therapy types including stem cells, vaccines, proteins, antibodies, drug conjugates, oligonucleotide biotherapeutics, small molecules and medical devices.










Our safety assessment facilities comply with GLP to the extent required by the FDA, as well as other international regulatory bodies. Furthermore, our early-stage discovery work, which is not subject to GLP standards, is typically carried out under a quality management system such as ISO 9100 or similarly constructed internally developed quality systems. Our facilities are regularly inspected by U.S. and other regulatory compliance monitoring authorities, our clients' quality assurance departments and our own internal quality assessment program.

Pathology Services.The ability to identify and characterize clinical and anatomic pathologic changes is critical in determining the safety and efficacy of potential new therapeutics. Key “go/no-go” decisions regarding continued product development are typically dependent on the identification, characterization and evaluation of fluid, tissue and cellular changes that our experts identify and interpret for our clients. We employ a large number of highly trained veterinary anatomic and clinical pathologists and other scientists who use state-of-the-art techniques to identify potential test article-related changes within tissues, fluids and cells. In addition to all standard anatomic and clinical pathology techniques, we provide specialized evaluations such as cytology, platelet function, assay development, immunohistochemistry,in situhybridization and electron microscopy services.

Manufacturing Support (Manufacturing)

Microbial Solutions (formerly known as Endotoxin and Microbial Detection). Our Microbial Solutions business providesin vitromethods for conventional and rapid quality control testing of sterile and non-sterile biopharmaceutical and consumer products. Our legacy business provided lot release testing of medical devices and injectable drugs for endotoxin contamination. With our acquisition of Celsis in July 2015, we now provide rapid microbial detection systems for quality control testing in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and consumer products industries. Our Accugenix business provides state-of-the-art microbial identification and genetic sequencing services for manufacturing in the biopharmaceutical, medical device, nutraceutical and consumer care industries.

Endotoxin testing is anin vitroprocess which uses a processed extract from the blood of the horseshoe crab, known as limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL). The LAL test is the first and most successful FDA-validated alternative to anin vivotest to date. The extraction of blood does not harm the crabs, which are subsequently returned to their natural ocean environment. Our Microbial Solutions business produces and distributes a comprehensive portfolio of endotoxin testing, microbial detection and identification kits, reagents, software, accessories, instruments and associated microbial quality control laboratory services to a broad range of companies manufacturing and releasing products from the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, consumer products and dairy industries worldwide. We are a market leader in endotoxin testing products and services, which are used for FDA-required quality control testing of injectable drugs and medical devices, their components and the processes by which they are manufactured.

The growth in our Microbial Solutions business is driven by our FDA approved line of next-generation endotoxin testing products. This line is based on the Endosafe Portable Testing System (Endosafe®-PTS™) technology, which allows rapid endotoxin testing in the central laboratory or manufacturing environment. In recent years, we expanded the PTS product portfolio to include a multiple sample testing system known as the Endosafe®-MCS™ (multi-cartridge system) to satisfy the demand of our clients who require higher sample throughput. We anticipate our clients' demand for rapid testing methods will continue to increase as they respond to the FDA's Process Analytical Technology (PAT) Initiative as well as move to faster, simpler testing methods for their technicians. In 2013, we launched the first fully automated robotic system developed specifically for high-volume endotoxin testing: Endosafe®-Nexus™. We expect to see expanded use of this rapid endotoxin testing technology in non-traditional areas such as renal dialysis, nuclear and compounding pharmacies and cellular therapy.

Celsis’ systems are principally used for product-release testing to help ensure the safe manufacture of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and consumer products. The addition of Celsis, with its Advance II™, Accel™ and Innovate™ systems for non-sterile applications, complements our PTS-Micro™, a rapid bacterial (bioburden) detection system for sterile biopharmaceutical applications. We expect our comprehensive portfolio to drive increased adoption of our quality control testing solutions across both sterile and non-sterile applications.

Our Accugenix subsidiary is the premier global provider of current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) compliant contract microbial identification and genetic sequencing testing. Accugenix is an acknowledged industry leader in species-level identification and strain typing of bacteria and fungi that are recovered from manufacturing facilities. Utilizing state-of-the-art and proprietaryin vitrotechnologies, coupled with scientific expertise and analysis, Accugenix excels in providing accurate, timely and cost-effective microbial identification services required to meet internal quality standards and government regulations.

Biologics Testing Solutions.We perform specialized testing of biologics frequently outsourced by global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our laboratories in the U.S., Germany, Scotland and Ireland provide timely and compliant molecular










biology, virology, bioanalysis, immunochemistry, microbiology and related services. We confirm that biological processes and the drug candidates and drugs produced are consistent, correctly defined, stable and essentially contaminant free. This testing is required by the FDA and other international regulatory authorities for our clients to obtain new drug approvals, to maintain government licensed manufacturing facilities and to release approved therapeutic products for patient treatment.

Our manufacturing services group grows and stores well-characterized early-stage client cell lines for later development or manufacture of therapeutic proteins and vaccines for clinical trials. We further design and provide viral clearance projects for Phase I, II and III studies in our German and U.S. facilities.

Avian Vaccine Services.We are the global leaderfor the supply of SPF fertile chicken eggs and chickens. SPF chicken embryos are used by animal health companies as self-contained “bioreactors” for the manufacture of live viruses. These viruses are used as a raw material primarily in poultry as well as human and veterinary vaccine applications. The production of SPF eggs is performed under biosecure conditions, similar in many ways to our research model production. We have a worldwide presence, with several SPF egg production facilities in the U.S., contracted production capabilities in Hungary, and franchise operations in India. We also operate a specialized avian laboratory in the U.S., which provides in-house quality control testing of the SPF flocks, offers testing services to vaccine companies and commercial poultry operations, and manufactures poultry diagnostics and bulk antigens for poultry vaccines.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to be the preferred strategic global partner for our clients. Our strategy is to deliver a comprehensive and integrated portfolio of drug discovery and non-clinical development products, services and solutions to support our clients' discovery and early-stage drug research, process development, scale up and manufacturing efforts, and enable them to bring new and improved therapies to market faster and more cost effectively. In addition, we believe we can improve and augment drug discovery and early-stage development effectiveness by coordinating the dialog between large pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic and non-governmental organizations and venture capitalists. Separately, through our various Manufacturing segment businesses, we aim to be the premier provider of products and services that ensure our clients produce and release their products safely. As these groups increasingly rely and interact with one another in this field, we assist them in working together by developing deeper strategic relationships with each of these constituencies.

We believe we have certain competitive advantages in executing this strategy, as a result of our continuing focus on the following:

Integrated Early-Stage Portfolio.We are the only large, globalCROwith a portfolio of products, services and solutions that focuses on drug discovery and early-stage development. We provide research models and associated services, discovery research studies and services, and comprehensive safety assessment studies in both regulated and non-regulated environments. As such, we are able to collaborate with clients from target discovery through candidate selection. When critical decisions are made regarding which therapeutics will progress from discovery to development, we continue to work alongside our clients as the drug candidates move downstream. Our recognized expertise in early-stage drug research and pharmacology provides us with a competitive advantage. We understand our clients' therapies, and the challenges they face during the discovery and development process, including mechanism of action, efficacy, drug metabolism, safety assessment and toxicological testing critical for making “go/no-go” decisions.

Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Support Portfolio.We also offer a portfolio of products, services, and solutions that supports the process development, scale up and quality control efforts of the biopharmaceutical industry. We provide products and services that support the development and release of commercialized biologics products. In particular, we are an industry leader in the areas of microbial detection and microbial identification to support process development and ongoing commercial production. Our portfolio spans a broad range of traditional and rapid methods, which provide the highest testing quality, enhance productivity and reduce cycle time.

Deep Scientific Expertise.We provide a breadth and depth of scientific expertise which may be too costly for our clients to build and/or maintain in-house. We provide essential capabilities, including biomarkers, biologics, medicinal chemistry,in vitroscreening,in vivopharmacology, immunology, pathology, biologics process development testing, microbial detection and identification and other specialty service areas that have high infrastructure costs or are cost-prohibitive for clients to maintain in-house. We continue to expand our portfolio in key therapeutic and pharmacology areas to align with our clients' internal drug discovery and development areas of focus. These areas of disease focus and expertise include oncology, metabolism and obesity, immunology, respiratory, bone and musculoskeletal, diabetes, cardiovascular, infectious disease and central nervous system. In the areas of functional expertise, it includes synthetic and medicinal chemistry, library design, cell line development,in vitroandin vivoassay development screening,










preclinical imaging, structural biology, process chemistry, toxicology, veterinary pathology, bioanalysis, scale up and formulation development. We also continue to enhance our small molecule and biologics manufacturing portfolio in areas of greatest industry need, where outsourcing provides major benefits for our clients and where we could provide significant benefits given our unique early development portfolio and global footprint.

Commitment to Animal Welfare.We are committed to being the worldwide leader in the humane care of laboratory animals and implementation of the “3Rs” (Replacement, Reduction and Refinement). As researchers, we are responsible to our clients and the public for the health and well-being of the animals in our care. We work hand-in-hand with the scientific community to understand how living conditions, handling procedures and reduction of stress play an important role in the quality and efficiency of research.

Superior Quality and Client Support.We maintain scientific rigor and high quality standards through management of key performance indicators and an intense focus on biosecurity. These standards allow clients to access our global portfolio of products and services with the confidence that they will obtain consistent results no matter where they choose to obtain their products or conduct their research.

Flexible and Customized Environment to Provide the Right Solutions.Each of our clients is different, with unique needs and specific requirements. We understand the importance of flexibility, and leverage the expertise embedded in our integrated early-stage portfolio to provide customized solutions tailored to the specific need or therapeutic area for a particular client. By utilizing our streamlined and efficient facilities, we help clients create a flexible infrastructure in order to improve their workload and staffing requirements. This allows our clients to reduce internal capacity and/or staff. We provide enhanced value to clients who use us as a full-service integrated partner over a longer period of time.

Large, Global Partner.We believe there is a particular advantage in being a full service, high-quality provider of research models and associated services, discovery and preclinicalin vivoandin vitroservices and manufacturing support on a global scale. Many of our clients, especially large biopharmaceutical companies, have decided to limit the number of suppliers with which they work. Their preference is to partner with large Tier 1 CROs like Charles River, who can offer clients support across the earlier-stage drug research process as a result of broader portfolios and experience in project management. This includes extensive scientific, technical and therapeutic area expertise, real-time access to data through secure portals, a global footprint, and streamlined and simplified processes and communications including professional project and relationship management. We are focused on leveraging our competitive advantages to ensure we are recognized as the premier preferred provider thereby enabling us to build broader and deeper long-term strategic relationships with our clients.

Global biopharmaceutical companies are continuing to make the decision to outsource more significant tranches of their drug discovery, development and manufacturing processes. Over the past few years we have entered into strategic relationships with leading global biopharmaceutical companies and expanded existing preferred provider agreements with other leading global biopharmaceutical companies. For example, in 2015, we extended the term of our collaboration with AstraZeneca for outsourced regulated safety assessment and development drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics until 2020. For some of these partners, we provide a broad suite of our research models and discovery and safety assessment services and for others we provide a customized and select array of discovery and safety assessment services and/or research models. Offering flexibility enables our clients to utilize our products and services to deliver innovative health solutions in a manner which best suits their individual needs.

There have been fundamental changes in our clients' research and development needs, particularly with regard to the large pharmaceutical industry. First, these clients are increasingly emphasizing studies that have greater translation to the clinic so that they can make appropriate decisions regarding the progression of potential therapeutic entities earlier in the development process. The result is a greater focus on discovery services, includingin vivopharmacology studies consisting of efficacy and non-GLP DMPK (drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics) studies. Second, these clients are choosing to outsource additional discovery and safety assessment services in order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of their drug selection processes.

There have been fundamental shifts in the manufacturing needs of our clients. Clients have significantly outsourced their small molecule manufacturing capacity by selling off assets as well as contracting with contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs). There is now a very large, global and highly fragmented CMO industry supporting the industry. Biologic production has been slower to be outsourced, but this is accelerating. Furthermore, the industry is increasing reliance on venture capital funded and mid-tier companies for new small molecule and biologics drugs and they prefer an outsourced CMO model. This will continue to drive further manufacturing outsourcing. Higher standards for quality control testing during process










development and ongoing manufacturing will drive enhanced need for CMO testing support services, particularly rapid methods and fast turnaround services, to minimize the impact on manufacturing timelines and costs.

We believe that this changing environment will provide enhanced outsourcing opportunities for us in the future. We remain optimistic that our clients are increasingly receptive to partnering with CROs and CMOs as a means of meeting their discovery and preclinical support needs. We believe that the successful launch of new therapies and outsourcing by the pharmaceutical industry will continue to be positive drivers of demand for our products and services.

We also believe that larger biopharmaceutical companies will increasingly focus on efficiencies and execution. They will continue to reassess what are core differentiators from research and development to commercialization. We expect they will also continue to be conservative in re-building infrastructure and expertise. This should lead to more opportunities for strategic outsourcing as clients choose to utilize external resources rather than invest in internal infrastructure. In the aggregate, we believe that the evolving large biopharmaceutical research and development business model will make our essential products and services even more relevant to our clients, and allow them to leverage our integrated offerings and expertise to drive their research, preclinical development and manufacturing efficiency and cost effectiveness.

We believe it is critical to participate in the strategic partnering process because these relationships are likely to extend for lengthy periods of time - three to five years. Furthermore, both the client and the CRO invest heavily in the initial phases of the relationship to successfully transfer work streams and establish governance processes. Given this investment, clients are less likely to change CROs at the conclusion of the initial relationship. Our goal is to prevail in the majority of these opportunities.

We also believe that our portfolio provides flexible solutions that meet the customized needs for virtual and small biotechnology companies, which have limited or no infrastructure. These clients also value our ability to provide a broad range of services and integrated services where we work hand in hand with our customers to design, plan and manage integrated projects and programs. This includes classically outsourced services, “insourced” services and hybrid offerings blending resources from both our clients and staff. Our clients have utilized this capability, which blends both resources inside and outside their walls.

We maintain an intense focus on initiatives designed to allow us to drive profitable growth and maximize value for shareholders, and better position ourselves to operate successfully in the current and future business environment. As a result, we believe that we are well positioned to exploit both existing and new outsourcing opportunities.

We intend to continue to broaden the scope of the products and services we provide across the drug discovery and early-stage development continuum primarily through internal development, and, as needed, through focused acquisitions and alliances. Acquisitions are an integral part of our growth strategy, but we are committed to a disciplined approach that seeks to target businesses that are a sound strategic fit and that offer the prospect of enhancing shareholder value, typically including the achievement of a hurdle rate for return on invested capital above our weighted cost of capital. For example, in each of 2014 and 2015, we completed significant strategic acquisitions. In 2014, we acquired Argenta and BioFocus, global leaders in integrated drug discovery services with a predominant focus onin vitrocapabilities, and ChanTest, a premier provider of ion channel testing. In 2015, we acquired Celsis Group Limited., a leading provider of rapid bacterial detection systems for sterile and non-sterile quality control testing in the biopharmaceutical and consumer products industries.

Our acquisition strategy also takes into account geographic as well as strategic expansion of existing core services. For example, in 2015, we acquired Oncotest, a Germany-based CRO providing discovery services for oncology, which complements our existingIn VivoDiscovery businesses in the U.S. and Finland, and Sunrise Farms, a producer of SPF fertile chicken eggs and chickens used in the manufacture of live viruses. In 2013, we acquired Microbial Solutions Singapore and 75% ownership of Vital River, the premier commercial provider of research models and related services in China. And, in 2014 and 2012, we acquired VivoPath and Accugenix, respectively.

We are also partnering with a number of venture capital firms primarily investing in life sciences, health care and technology companies with an emphasis on early-stage emerging growth companies. Through these partnerships we are able to promote contract research services for discovery and safety assessment to these companies. This offers us the opportunity to establish ourselves as a provider of choice for a unique client group which has emerged as biopharmaceutical companies rationalize and prioritize their development pipelines.

Customers

We maintain a three-pronged sales organization with a focus on:

•global biopharmaceutical companies;










•small and mid-sized pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies; and

•academic and government institutions.

We also maintain several sales specialists which either have specific technical expertise (often degreed scientists) or cover unique markets.

Our clients continue to consist primarily of all of the major biopharmaceutical companies; many biotechnology, agricultural and chemical, life science, veterinary medicine, medical device, diagnostic and consumer product companies; contract research and contract manufacturing organizations; and other commercial entities, as well as leading hospitals, academic institutions, and government agencies.We have stable, long-term relationships with many of our clients. During 2015, no single commercial client accounted for more than 5% of our total revenueand no single customer accounted for more than 10% of the revenue of any of our three business segments.

We continue to pursue a goal of expanding our relationships with our large biopharmaceutical clients, and with many of our larger mid-market clients. These relationships take different forms, from preferred provider arrangements to strategic partnerships. The structure of these relationships incentivizes clients to purchase more products and services across our early-stage portfolio, and in total, the strategic relationships in which we are now engaged represent over 30% of our total revenues.Because of the strength of these relationships, we have better insight into our clients' planning processes, and therefore, better visibility than in the past. For information regarding revenue attributable to each of our business segments for the last three fiscal years, please see Note 14 “Segment and Geographic Information” included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. For information regarding revenue and long-lived assets attributable to operations in the United States, Europe, Canada, Japan and other countries for each of the last three fiscal years, please review Note 14 “Segment and Geographic Information” included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

We have designated dedicated sales people for each of our three client segments (global biopharmaceutical, small and mid-sized pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and academic and government institutions). This enhances our ability to meet client needs by offering customized, tailored solutions across our entire portfolio. In addition, our mid-market pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients benefit by additional support from a combination of account managers with broad portfolio knowledge and specialists with specific scientific expertise. This allows us to provide comprehensive coverage of all of the market segments among our diverse client population. We also apply the use of dedicated sales specialists for certain technical product lines, such as in our Manufacturing business.

We sell our products and services principally through our direct sales force and account management teams who work in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific countries. In addition to interactions with our direct sales force, our primary promotional activities include organizing scientific symposia, publishing scientific papers and newsletters, webinars and making presentations at, and participating in, scientific conferences and trade shows in North America, Europe and Asia. We supplement these scientifically based marketing activities with internet-based marketing, advertising and direct mail. In certain areas, our direct sales force is supplemented by international distributors and agents.

Our internal marketing/product management teams support the field sales staff and account management teams while developing and implementing programs to create close working relationships with our clients in the biomedical research industry. We maintain customer service, technical assistance and consulting service departments (in addition to project managers for our service businesses), which address both our clients' routine and more specialized needs and generally serve as a scientific resource for them. We frequently assist our clients in solving problems related to animal husbandry, health and genetics, biosecurity, preclinical study design, regulatory consulting, protocol development and other areas in which our expertise is widely recognized as a valuable resource by our clients.

Our marketing efforts are focused on stimulating demand for further outsourcing across our entire services portfolio. We believe that our ability to provide solutions that address all aspects of early-stage drug researchare increasingly attractive to our clients, and we continue to design and market our commercial activities to deliver flexible, customized programs designed by segment to meet our clients' global and site-specific needs.

Competition

Our goal is to be a leader in each of the markets in which we participate. We compete in the marketplace on the basis of our therapeutic and scientific expertise in early-stage drug research, quality, reputation, flexibility, responsiveness, pricing,










innovation and global capabilities. We are able to offer a unique portfolio of early-stage products and services to support drug discovery and development.

We encounter a broad range of competitors of different sizes and capabilities in each of our three businesses segments, although the largest competitors within any segment vary.  We also face competition from the internal discovery and development resources of our clients.

•For RMS, we have five main competitors of which one is a government funded, not-for-profit entity; one is part of a large public company; two are privately held in Europe and one is privately held in the U.S. We believe that none of these competitors compare to us in global reach, financial strength, breadth of product and services offerings, technical expertise or pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry relationships.

•For DSA, both our Discovery Services and Safety Assessment businesses have numerous competitors. Discovery has hundreds of competitors as in a highly competitive and fragmented market. Safety Assessment has seven main competitors; one is part of a large public company in the U.S.; one is a privately held company in the U.K.; one is a private company with operations in the U.S. and China; one is a privately held company with operations in the U.S. and the EU; and three are privately held companies in the U.S. Our DSA segment also competes with in-house departments of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and teaching hospitals.

•For Manufacturing, each of our underlying businesses has several competitors. In addition to many smaller competitors, Biologics has five main competitors, of which three are public companies in Europe, one is a private company in the U.S., and one is a public company in China. Avian has one main competitor to its SPF eggs business, which is privately held in the European Union, and numerous competitors for services provided through our specialized avian laboratory. Microbial Solutions has six main competitors, of which three are public companies in the European Union, two are public companies in the U.S. and one is privately held in the U.S.

Industry Support and Animal Welfare

One of our core values is a concern for, and commitment to, animal welfare. We have been in the forefront of animal welfare improvements in our industry, and continue to show our commitment with special recognition programs for employees who demonstrate an extraordinary commitment in this critical aspect of our business. We created our own Humane Care Initiative, which is directed by our Animal Welfare and Training Group. The goal of the initiative is to assure that we continue as a worldwide leader in the humane care of laboratory animals and implementation of the 3Rs (Replacement, Reduction and Refinement). Laboratory animals are an important resource that further our knowledge of living systems and contribute to the discovery of life-saving drugs and procedures. We work hand-in-hand with the scientific community to understand how living conditions, handling procedures and stress play a role in the quality and efficiency of research. As researchers, we are responsible to our clients and the public for the health and well-being of the animals in our care.

We are firmly committed to the 3Rs and to reducing the number of animals used by emphasizing health and genetic integrity to decrease study data variability. Whenever possible, we use technological advances such as new diagnostic tests for screening pathogens in laboratory rodents, microsampling andin vitroassays. We also partner with customers to develop study designs decreasing the number of animals needed and suggesting pilot studies where appropriate. We have recently instituted a quarterly award recognizing our employees’ efforts to continually implement the 3Rs at our sites globally.

We support a wide variety of organizations and individuals working to further animal welfare as well as the interests of the biomedical research community. We fund scholarships to laboratory animal training programs, provide financial support to non-profit institutions that educate the public about the benefits of animal research and provide awards and prizes to outstanding leaders in the laboratory animal medicine field and the supporters of 3Rs.

Employees

As of December 26, 2015, we had approximately 8,600 employees (including approximately 770 science professionals with advanced degrees, including Ph.D.s, D.V.M.s and M.D.s). Our employees are not unionized in the U.S. Employees at some of our European facilities are represented by works councils and/or unions, which is consistent with local customs for our industry. We believe we have good relationships with our employees, based on a number of factors including employee retention and survey results.

Backlog

Our backlog for our RMS, DSA and Manufacturing reportable segments was $106.6 million, $327.8 million and $36.2 million, respectively, as of December 26, 2015, as compared to $115.7 million, $310.5 million and $27.5 million, respectively, as of










December 27, 2014. Related services are performed over varying durations, from short to extended periods of time, which may be as long as several years. We maintain an order backlog to track anticipated revenue from studies and projects that either have not started, but are anticipated to begin in the near future, or are in process and have not been completed. We only recognize a study or project in backlog after we have received written evidence of a client's intention to proceed. Canceled studies or projects are removed from backlog.

We believe our aggregate backlog as of any date is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of our future results for a variety of reasons. First, studies vary in duration (i.e., some studies or projects that are included in 2015 backlog may be completed in 2016, while others may be completed in later years). Second, the scope of studies or projects may change, which may either increase or decrease their value. Third, studies or projects included in backlog may be subject to bonus or penalty payments. Fourth, studies or projects may be terminated or delayed at any time by the client or regulatory authorities for a number of reasons, including the failure of a drug to satisfy safety and efficacy requirements, or a sponsor making a strategic decision that a study or service is no longer necessary. Delayed contracts remain in our backlog until a determination of whether to continue, modify or cancel the study has been made. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to realize all or most of the net revenues included in backlog or estimate the portion to be filled in the current year.

Regulatory Matters

As our business operates in a number of distinct operating environments and in a variety of locations worldwide, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes overlapping, regulatory environments.

The Animal Welfare Act (AWA) governs the care and use of certain species of animals used for research in the U.S. other than laboratory rats, mice and chickens. As a result, most of our U.S. small animal research models activities and our avian vaccine services operations are not subject to regulation under the AWA. For regulated species, the AWA and the associated Animal Care regulations require producers and users of regulated species to provide veterinary care and to utilize specific husbandry practices such as cage size, shipping conditions, sanitation and, for certain species, environmental enrichment to assure the welfare of these animals. Separately, facilities using live vertebrate animals in research funded by the U.S. Public Health Service (PHS) must also adhere to the PHS Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals and follow the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals produced by the Institute for Laboratory Animal Research.

We comply with licensing and registration requirement standards set by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and similar agencies in other countries such as the European Union, China, Japan and Canada for the care and use of regulated species. Our animal production facilities in the U.S. - our DSA facilities in the U.S., and Canada - and most of our DSA sites in the European Union are accredited by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International, a private, nonprofit, international organization that promotes the humane treatment of animals in science through voluntary accreditation and assessment programs.

Our import and export of animals and our operations in foreign countries are subject to international agreements and conventions, as well as a variety of national, regional, and local laws and regulations, which establish the standards for the humane treatment, care, handling and transport of animals by dealers and research facilities.

We conduct nonclinical safety assessment studies to support the submissions for approval or licensing of our clients' products throughout the world. Many of these studies must comply with national statutory or regulatory requirements for Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). GLP regulations describe a quality system for the organizational process and the conditions under which nonclinical studies are planned, performed, monitored, recorded, reported and archived. GLP compliance is required by such regulatory agencies as the FDA, United States Environmental Protection Agency, European Medicines Agency, Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency in the U.K., Health Products Regulatory Authority in Ireland, Health Canada and other similar monitoring authorities in the countries where we operate. GLP requirements are significantly harmonized throughout the world and our laboratories are capable of conducting studies in compliance with all necessary requirements.

Our Manufacturing businesses produce endotoxin test kits, reagents, cell banks used in research and biopharmaceutical production, clinical trial vaccines and vaccine support products. Additionally, several of our laboratories conduct identity, stability, sterility and potency testing in support of our clients' manufacturing programs working with our clients to fulfill their validation requirements as applicable. These activities are subject to regulation by the FDA and other national regulatory agencies under their respective current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations. These regulations require that we manufacture our products or perform testing in a prescribed manner with respect to cGMP compliance, and maintain records of our manufacturing, testing and control activities. In addition, the specific activities of some of our businesses require us to hold specialized licenses for the manufacture, distribution and/or marketing of particular products.










All of our sites are subject to licensing and regulation under international treaties and conventions, including national, regional and local laws relating to:

•the surface and air transportation of chemicals, biological reagents and laboratory specimens;

•the handling, use, storage and disposal of chemicals (including narcotics and psychotropic drugs), biological reagents, laboratory specimens, hazardous waste and radioactive materials;

•the procurement, handling, use, storage and disposal of human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue based products for research purposes;

•the safety and health of employees and visitors to our facilities; and

•protection of the environment and general public.

Global compliance programs are centralized under a single group responsible for global quality programs and systems to ensure that all business sectors comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements and satisfy our clients’ expectations for quality and regulatory compliance. To assure these compliance obligations, we established quality assurance units (QAUs) in each of our regulated businesses that require independent oversight. The QAUs operate independently from those individuals that direct and conduct studies, manufacturing or studies that support manufacturing.

Intellectual Property

We develop and implement computer software and technically derived procedures and products intended to maximize the quality and effectiveness of our services. Although our intellectual property rights are valuable to our success, we believe that such factors as the technical expertise, proprietary know-how, ability and experience of our professionals are more important, and that, overall, these technological capabilities provide significant benefits to our clients. Where we consider it appropriate, steps are taken to protect our know-how through confidentiality agreements and registrations. In addition, we in-license technology and products from other companies when it enhances our product and services businesses. In the future, in-licensing may become a larger initiative to enhance our offerings, particularly as we focus on therapeutic area expertise. With the exception of technology related to our Microbial Solutions testing business, we have no patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises or concessions which are material and upon which any of our products or services are dependent.

Corporate Governance



