Item 1.    Business

General

Corporate History

Charles River has been operating since 1947 and during that time, we have undergone several changes to our business structure. Charles
River Laboratories International, Inc. was incorporated in 1994. In 2000, we completed the initial public offering of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. Our stock is traded
on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CRL" and is included in the











Standard &
Poor's MidCap 400, 1000 and Composite 1500 Indices, the Dow Jones US Biotechnology Index, the NYSE Composite Index and the NYSE Healthcare Sector Index, among others. We are
headquartered in Wilmington, Massachusetts. Our headquarters mailing address is 251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA 01887, and the telephone number at that location is
(781) 222-6000. Our Internet site iswww.criver.com. Material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into
this Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to "Charles River," "we," "us" or "our" refer to Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

This
Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of
our Internet site as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. In addition, you may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Overview

We are a leading global provider of solutions that accelerate the drug discovery and development process, including research models and
associated services, and outsourced preclinical services. The drug development process requires the steadily increasing investment of time and money—various studies and reports estimate it
takes between 10-16 years, up to $1.65 billion, and exploration of more than 10,000 drug compounds to produce a single FDA-approved drug. Charles River is positioned to
leverage our core competenciesin vivobiology and regulatory-compliant preclinical services in an efficient and cost-effective way to aid
our customers in bringing their drugs to market faster.

We
have two reporting segments: Research Models and Services (RMS) and Preclinical Services (PCS). We provide the research models required in research and development of new drugs,
devices and therapies and have been in this business for over 60 years. We have built upon our core competencies to develop a diverse and growing portfolio of products and services. Our wide
array of tools and services enables our customers to reduce costs, increase speed and enhance their productivity and effectiveness in drug discovery and development. Our customer base includes global
pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, as well as government agencies, and leading hospitals and academic institutions around the world. We currently operate approximately 70 facilities in
16 countries worldwide. Our products and services, supported by our global infrastructure and deep scientific expertise, enable our customers to meet many of the challenges of early-stage life
sciences research. In 2009, our net sales were $1.20 billion and our operating income was $166.9 million.

In
recent years, we have completed a number of acquisitions that have broadened our present portfolio of high-end services to include general toxicology, specialty
toxicology, discovery and imaging services, biopharmaceutical services and Phase I clinical services. In addition, these acquisitions:

•significantly expanded our overall corporate size;•significantly increased the breadth of the products and services that we offer; and•expanded and strengthened our global footprint in the growing market for pharmaceutical research and development services.

These
acquisitions, which include the acquisitions of Piedmont Research Center LLC, Cerebricon Ltd. and Systems Pathology Company, LLC in 2009 and NewLab BioQuality
AG and MIR Preclinical Services in 2008, have been critical in our continuing mission to support our key pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers, who are increasingly seeking full service, global
partners to whom they can outsource more of their preclinical research and development efforts. By some estimates, the outsourcedin vivodiscovery and
drug development services markets in which we participate—ranging from research model production through Phase I clinical services—has a current











size
of approximately $7.0-$7.5 billion annually. It is thought that this represents 30-40% of all of the related in vivo discovery and drug development work currently
performed (with wide variances among the different services) and in the aggregate is expected to increase over time as outsourcing trends continue.

In
2009 much of our focus was dedicated towards ongoing positioning to take advantage of long-term opportunities to support our clients as they continue to outsource drug
development services. One element of this focus has manifested through realignments of our PCS organization and our sales and marketing group. In 2009, we also pushed forward process efficiency
initiatives through strengthening of our Lean Six Sigma organization and, at the beginning of fiscal 2010, the initial rollout of our ERP (enterprise resource planning) system in the United States. In
2008, we completed the major stages of our three-year capacity expansion program, and in early 2009 we finished with the last few elements of the program with focus on facilities in China and
Sherbrooke (Canada). We continually evaluate our capacity in light of our customer needs and demands. Accordingly, in January 2010 we announced that we had decided to suspend operations at our
Shrewsbury, Massachusetts, facility by the middle of 2010, with the intention to resume operations when global preclinical market conditions improve and we require additional capacity. For additional
discussion of the factors that were elements of our 2009 focus, as well as the factors that we believe have recently been influencing outsourcing demand from our customers, please see the section
entitled "Our Strategy" included elsewhere in the Form 10-K.

Research Models and Services (RMS).Charles River has been supplying research models to the drug development industry since 1947. With
approximately
150 different strains, we continue to maintain our position as the global leader in the production and sale of the most widely used rodent research model strains, principally genetically and virally
defined purpose-bred rats and mice. We also provide a variety of related services that are designed to assist our customers in supporting the use of research models in drug development.
With multiple facilities located on three continents (North America, Europe and Asia (Japan), we maintain production centers, including a total of approximately 180 barrier rooms or isolator
facilities, strategically located near our customers. In 2009, RMS accounted for 55% of our total net sales and approximately 45% of our employees, including approximately 130 science professionals
with advanced scientific degrees.

Our
RMS segment is comprised of (1) Research Models, (2) Research Model Services and (3) other related products and services.

Research Models.A significant portion of this business is comprised of the commercial production and sale of research models,
principally
purpose-bred rats and mice for use by researchers. We provide our rodent models to numerous customers around the world, including most pharmaceutical companies, a broad range of
biotechnology companies, many government agencies, and leading hospitals and academic institutions. We have 23 production facilities located in 8 countries worldwide which are strategically located to
be in close proximity to our customers. Our research models include both standard strains and disease models such as those with compromised immune systems, which are in demand as early-stage research
tools. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and foreign regulatory bodies typically require that the safety and efficacy of new drug candidates be tested on research models like ours
prior to testing in humans. As a result, our research models are an essential part of the drug discovery and development process.

Our
rodent species have been and continue to be some of the most extensively used research models in the world, largely as a result of our continuous commitment to innovation and quality
associated with the products. Our research models are bred and maintained in controlled environments which are designed to ensure that the models are free of specific viral and bacterial agents and
other contaminants that can disrupt research operations and distort results. With our barrier room production capabilities, we are able to deliver consistently high-quality research models
worldwide.









Our
small research models include:

•outbred, which are genetically heterogeneous;•inbred, which are genetically identical;•hybrid, which are the offspring of two different inbred parents;•spontaneous mutant, which contain a naturally occurring genetic mutation (such as immune deficiency); and•other genetically modified research models, including knock-out models with one or more disabled genes and
transgenic animals.

We
also offer proprietary, disease-specific mouse and rat models used to find new treatments for diseases such as diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular and kidney disease. We are
presently focusing our disease model program on five areas of research: cardiovascular, metabolic, renal, oncology and central
nervous system, which provides overlapping disease modalities that support multiple uses of certain models.

In
addition to our small research models, we also are a premier provider of high-quality purpose-bred, specific pathogen-free (SPF) large research
models to the biomedical research community.

Research Model Services.RMS also offers a variety of services, described below, designed to assist our customers in screening
drug candidates
faster. These services capitalize on the technologies and relationships developed through our research model business, and address the need among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to
outsource the non-core aspects of their drug discovery activities. These services include those which are related to the maintenance and monitoring of research models, as well as those
services designed to implement efficacy screening protocols to improve the customer's drug evaluation process. We currently offer four major categories of research models
services—Genetically Engineered Models and Services, Consulting and Staffing Services, Research Animal Diagnostic Services, and Discovery and Imaging Services.

Genetically Engineered Models and Services (GEMS).In this area of our business, we assist our customers in breeding, maintenance and
performing
health profile diagnostics of research models purchased or purposefully created by our customers for biomedical research activities. While the creation of a genetically engineered model (GEM) can be a
critical scientific event, it is only the first step in the discovery process. Productive utilization of GEMs requires significant additional technical expertise. We provide breeding expertise
and colony development, quarantine, and health monitoring, germplasm, cryopreservation, and rederivation including assisted reproduction and genetic monitoring. We provide these services to over 500
laboratories and customers around the world from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to hospitals and universities.

Consulting and Staffing Services.Building upon our core capability as the leading provider of high-quality research models, we manage
research model care operations (including recruitment, training, staffing and management services) on behalf of government and academic organizations, as well as commercial customers. Demand for our
services has been driven by the trend for research institutions to outsource internal functions or activities that are not critical to their core scientific innovation process, or for which they do
not maintain the necessary resources in-house. In addition, we believe that our expertise in research model care and facility operations enhances the productivity and quality of our
customers' research model programs.

Research Animal Diagnostic Services.We assist our customers in monitoring and analyzing the health and genetics of the research models
used in their
research protocols. We developed this capability internally by building upon the scientific foundation created by the diagnostic laboratory needs of our research model business. Depending upon a
customer's needs, we may serve as its sole-source testing laboratory, or as an alternative source supporting its internal laboratory capabilities.











We
believe that the continued growth in model development and characterization and utilization of specific disease models and GEMs will drive our future growth as the reference laboratory of
choice for health and genetic testing of laboratory research models.

Discovery and Imaging Services.

Augmenting our traditional model production and GEMS described above, we believe there are emerging
opportunities to
assist our customers in a variety of discovery, research, development and imaging areas. Expediting the development process of investigational agents by providing products and services to customers
extends their internal capabilities, complements their internal expertise and helps reduce product development timelines. In addition, our

in vivo

biology expertise positions us to provide complementary disease model services, which include surgical procedures, pre-conditioning and aging. We augmented our discovery and research and
development capabilities substantially in 2009 via the acquisitions of Piedmont Research Center (focusing on therapeutic efficacy studies in oncology and other therapeutic areas) and
Cerebricon Ltd. (focusing on therapeutic efficacy studies for the evaluation of investigational agents for the treatment of diseases of the central nervous system). In addition, our 2008
acquisition of MIR Preclinical Services allows us to offer extensive

in vivo

imaging capabilities in disease models (including MRI, PET, CT and
bioluminescence/fluorescence imaging), as well as therapeutic efficacy expertise in inflammation, metabolic, cardiovascular and oncologic pharmacology. Imaging services have the potential to increase
the efficiency of lead candidate selection by providing earlier and more highly predictive preclinical data, compared with traditional non-imaging methods, and in addition is well suited
to facilitating translation between preclinical testing and clinical evaluation of investigational agents. The Discovery and Imaging Services that we offer through our RMS business are complementary
to the Discovery Support services that we offer through our PCS business.

Other Related Research Model Products and Services.We also offer two other categories of products and services within
RMS—in vitroproducts and avian vaccine services.

In Vitro.OurIn Vitrobusiness provides non-animal, orin
vitro,methods for lot release testing of medical devices and injectable drugs for endotoxin contamination. We are committed to being the leader in providing our customers within vitroalternatives as these methods become scientifically validated and commercially feasible, and toward that goal we work with and support the
European Center for Validation of Alternative Methods in these efforts. Endotoxin testing uses a
processed extract from the blood of the horseshoe crab, known as limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL). The LAL test is the first and most successful FDA-validatedin
vitroalternative to an animal model test to date. The process of extracting blood is generally not harmful to the crabs, which are subsequently returned to their natural ocean
environment. OurIn Vitrobusiness produces and distributes endotoxin testing kits, reagents, software, accessories, instruments and associated services
to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide. We are a market leader in endotoxin testing products and services, which are used for FDA-required quality control testing of
injectable drugs and medical devices, their components and the processes by which they are manufactured.

Our
growth in theIn Vitrobusiness is driven by our FDA approved line of next generation endotoxin testing products, which are based on
the Endosafe Portable Testing System (Endosafe®-PTS™) technology that allows rapid endotoxin testing in the central laboratory or manufacturing environment. We have
recently expanded the PTS product portfolio to include a multiple sample testing system known as the Endosafe-MCS (multi cartridge system) in response to the demand of our higher testing
volume customers. We anticipate continued adoption of rapid methods as our customers respond to the FDA's Process Analytical Technology (PAT) Initiative. We also expect to see expanded use of this
rapid endotoxin testing technology in non-traditional areas such as renal dialysis, nuclear and compounding pharmacies, and cellular therapy. In addition, we are currently exploring
obtaining 510(K) medical device approval of this technology for clinical diagnostic applications.









Avian Vaccine Services.We are the global leader for the supply of specific pathogen-free, or SPF, chickens and fertile chicken eggs.
SPF
chicken embryos are used by animal health companies as self-contained "bioreactors" for the manufacture of live viruses. These viruses are used as a raw material primarily in poultry, as
well as human, vaccine applications. The production of SPF eggs is performed under biosecure conditions, similar in many ways to our research model production. We have a worldwide presence in North
America with several SPF egg production facilities in the United States and contracted production capabilities in Hungary, and franchise operations in India and Australia. We also operate a
specialized avian laboratory in the United States, which provides in-house quality control testing of the SPF flocks, offers testing services to vaccine companies and commercial poultry
operations, and manufactures poultry diagnostics and bulk antigens for poultry vaccines.

Preclinical Services (PCS).Our PCS customers are principally engaged in the discovery and development of new drugs, devices and
therapies.

Discoveryrepresents the earliest stages of research in the life sciences, directed at the identification, screening and selection of a lead compound
for future drug development. Discovery activities typically last anywhere from 4-6 years in conventional pharmaceutical research and development timelines.Developmentactivities, which follow, and which can take up to 7 years, are directed at demonstrating thesafety,
tolerabilityandclinical efficacyof the selected drug candidates. During the preclinical stage of the development process, a
drug candidate is testedin vitro(typically on a cellular or subcellular level in a test tube or multi-well petri plate) andin vivo(in research models)
to support planned or on-going human trials. With our focus on early-stage drug development support, we view
clinical Phase I (first-in-human assessment) studies as a strategic component of our preclinical service offerings.

The
development services portion of our PCS business enables our customers to outsource their critical, regulatory-required drug and toxicology activities to us. The demand for these
services was historically driven by preclinical development programs of biotechnology companies, which traditionally have been outsourced, and also by the selective outsourcing strategy of larger
global pharmaceutical companies. The necessary significant investments in personnel, facilities and other capital resources required in order to efficiently conduct these activities means that global
pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies are frequently choosing to outsource their development activities, allowing them to focus on their core competencies of innovation and early drug
discovery and, particularly for pharmaceutical companies, promotion and market distribution.

We
are one of the two largest providers of preclinical services worldwide and offer particular expertise in the design, execution and reporting of general and specialty toxicology
studies, especially those dealing with innovative therapies and biologicals. We currently provide preclinical services at multiple facilities located in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia
(China). Our PCS segment represented 45% of our total net sales in 2009 and employed 51% of our employees including approximately 375 science professionals with advanced scientific degrees.

We
currently offer the following preclinical services, in which we include bothin vivoandin
vitrostudies, supportive laboratory services, and strategic preclinical consulting and program management to support product development from inception to proof of concept:

Toxicology.Toxicology is one of our core preclinical competencies and a competitive strength. Once a lead molecule is selected,
appropriate
toxicology studies are conducted to support clinical trials in humans. These studies are performed in laboratory models to elucidate the potential adverse effects that a compound has on an organism
over a variety of doses and over various time periods, and focus on safety and assessment of harmful effects. Our toxicology services feature:

•all the standard protocols for general toxicity testing (genotoxicity, safety pharmacology, acute, subacute, chronic
toxicity and carcinogenicity bioassays) required for regulatory submissions supporting "first-in-human" to "first-to-the-market" strategies;









•expertise in specialty routes of administration and modes of administration (e.g., infusion, intravitreal,
intrathecal, and inhalation), which are important not only for the testing of potential pharmaceuticals, but also for the safety testing of medical devices, industrial chemicals, food additives,
agrochemicals, biocides, nutraceuticals, animal health products and other materials;•market-leading expertise in the conduct and assessment of reproductive and developmental toxicology studies (in support of
larger scale, human clinical trials);•services in important specialty areas such as ocular, bone, juvenile/neonatal, immuno-toxicity, photobiology and dermal
testing;•work in all major therapeutic areas;•study design and strategic advice to our clients based on our wealth of experience and scientific expertise in support of
drug development; and•a strong history of assisting our clients in achieving their regulatory or internal milestones for safety testing,
including studies addressing stem cell therapies, DNA vaccines, protein biotherapeutics, small molecules and medical devices.

Our
toxicology facilities operate in compliance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLPs) as required by the FDA as well as other international regulatory bodies. Our facilities are regularly inspected by
U.S. and other GLP compliance monitoring authorities, as well as our own and our customers' Quality Assurance departments.

Pathology Services.In the drug development process, the ability to identify and characterize clinical and anatomic pathologic
change is critical in
determining the safety of a new compound. We employ a large number of highly trained pathologists who use state-of-the-art techniques to identify potential test
article-related changes within tissues, fluids and cells, as well as at the molecular level. Pathology support is critical not only for regulatory-driven safety studies, but also for specialized
investigative studies, discovery support, and stand-alone immunohistochemistry evaluations for monoclonal antibodies. Key "go/no-go" decisions regarding continued product development are
typically dependent on the identification, characterization and evaluation of gross and microscopic pathology findings we perform for our clients.

Bioanalysis, Pharmacokinetics, and Drug Metabolism.In support of preclinical drug safety testing, our customers are required to
demonstrate ample
drug exposure, stability in the collected sample, kinetics of their drug or compound in circulation, the presence of metabolites, and with recombinant proteins and peptides, the presence of
anti-drug antibodies. We have scientific depth in the sophisticated analytical techniques required to satisfy these requirements for a number of drug classes. After performing sample
analysis for preclinical study support, we have the opportunity to capture the benefits of bridging the preclinical bioanalysis with subsequent clinical development. Once the analysis is complete, our
scientists evaluate the data to provide information on the pharmacokinetics and/or toxicokinetics of the drug, as well as complete evaluation of the distribution of the drug or metabolites by
radio-labeled techniques. Pharmacokinetics refers to understanding what the body does to a drug or compound once administered, including the process by which the drug is absorbed, distributed in the
body, metabolized, and excreted (ADME); toxicokinetics refers to the same understanding as applied to higher doses that may result in adverse effects. Our clients require these studies for the full
preclinical assessment of the disposition of the drug, the results of which are used in the final preclinical safety evaluation of the compound.







Discovery Support.At the earliest stages of lead compound identification, our scientists are engaged in evaluating the activity
and efficacy of drug
candidates in several important therapeutic areas, including:

•asthma (through our specialized disease model colonies);•bone disease (using our state-of-the-art imaging and pathology capabilities);•ophthalmology (using our models of neovascularization);•general cardiovascular and device testing (using our surgical models); and•early drug formulation and bioanalysis support and method development.

We
also offer lead optimization strategies including early pharmacokinetic, metabolism, and toxicology support to help in early integrative drug selection criteria. The Discovery Support services that
we offer through our PCS business are complementary to the Discovery and Imaging Services that we offer through our RMS business.

Biopharmaceutical Services.

We provide specialized testing of biologicals and devices frequently outsourced by global pharmaceutical and biotechnology developers.
Our laboratories in the United States, Germany, Scotland and Ireland provide timely, compliant molecular biology, virology, bioanalytical, immunochemistry, microbiology and related services. We
confirm that biological processes and the drug candidates produced are consistent, correctly defined, stable and essentially contaminant free. This testing is required by the FDA and other global
regulatory authorities for our customers to obtain new drug approvals, to maintain government licensed manufacturing facilities and to release approved therapeutic products for patient treatment.

Our
manufacturing services group grows and stores well-characterized early-stage client cell lines for later development or manufacture of therapeutic proteins and vaccines
for clinical trials. We also collaborate with clients on process development, validation, and manufacturing scale-up.

Phase I Trials in Healthy, Normal and Special Populations

Phase I clinical trials are usually short duration studies conducted on a small number (20-100) of healthy human
subjects (although special populations can be used) under highly controlled conditions. Testing is usually performed where trial participants can be closely monitored in a secure environment, such as
at a clinic-type facility or hospital.

Our
clinical services capabilities are located at our premier Phase I clinic in Tacoma, Washington, with a capacity of 250 beds. We focus our clinical services business on
high-end clinical pharmacology studies in healthy participants. From a strategic perspective, we believe that our business benefits from complementary and consecutive services offerings of
preclinical services and Phase I clinical research in our core early-stage development portfolio.

We
offer a wide range of Phase I clinical research services designed to move lead pharmaceutical candidates rapidly from preclinical development through Phase I
pharmacokinetic tolerability and pharmacodynamic assessment to explore human pharmacology. We can conduct studies across a wide range of therapeutic areas, and have demonstrated experience in complex
dose tolerance, radio-labeled, cardiac safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and bioavailability studies. In addition, we provide customers with high-end
"first-in-human" studies for novel compounds, and expertise in complex drug-drug interaction studies.

Participants
at our clinics are evaluated through an intensive screening process to ensure study suitability. We employ clinical regulatory compliance staff to monitor the conduct and
reporting of Phase I trials and to assure management that these trials are conducted in compliance with appropriate regulatory requirements.









Our Strategy

Our objective is to be the preferred strategic global partner for our clients in accelerating the search for drugs, devices and
therapies. Fromin vivodiscovery through first-in-human testing, our goal is to deliver a full portfolio of products and
services for drug discovery and development and to partner with our clients by providing the greatest value and strategic benefit. Our business is primarily driven by the trend towards virtualization
of, and increase in outsourced services by, our customers, along with the continued growth of research and development spending by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, the federal government
and academic institutions.

Outsourcing
allows our customers to concentrate their internal expertise and resources on early drug discovery (and for more mature companies, marketing), while continuing to advance
their most promising products through the development pipeline. This creates opportunities for companies such as ours who can help optimize our clients' programs and assist in accelerating their drug
discovery and development process. Our strategy is to capitalize on these opportunities by continuing to build our
portfolio of premium, value-added products and services through internal development and investment, augmented by strategic "bolt-on" transactions.

Charles
River is positioned to address our customers' future needs and improve the efficiency and speed of their drug development activities, as we provide a multi-faceted value
proposition that enables us to:

•provide external expertise which may be too costly for our customers to build and/or maintain in-house;•partner with customers to allow them to compensate for recent capacity and/or staff reductions;•provide flexible arrangements to better balance our clients' workload/staff requirements (often reducing their personnel
and operating costs);•provide customized solutions across therapeutic area;•draw upon our higher utilization and efficiencies to our clients' advantage (including the use of purpose-built facilities
designed for high throughput);•address our customers' demands for "non-core" but strategically importantin
vivobiology activities and specialty services, such as general and specialty toxicology and program management, that are prohibitive for customers to maintain
in-house; and•provide additional value to our customers through broad-based partnerships across the breadth of the Charles River
portfolio.









generally
involve financial commitments from the customer, which tap into the broad array of physical and/or service resources that we provide (e.g. reserving dedicated space within existing
facilities; building out space to a particular specification; working within our clients' infrastructure; and occasionally establishing a new facility).

This
strategy and focus has been developed in recognition of the needs and desires of our customers who are increasingly facing pressure to manage their research and development costs
while at the same time maintaining or developing a strong pipeline of innovative new drugs, conduct research and development in multiple countries simultaneously and identify, hire and retain a
breadth of scientific and technical experts. It is both risky and expensive to bring a new prescription drug to market. It is estimated that only 4 in 5,000 - 10,000
investigational drugs that begin preclinical testing will progress to human testing, and only one of those will be approved for human use. According to various reports, it takes 10 to 16 years
and costs in the range of $180 million to $1.65 billion, with an average cost of over $900 million, to bring a new drug to market ($1.2 billion for a biologic).
Furthermore, costs associated with developing new drugs and biologics are increasing due to a variety of factors, including:

•price inflation;•fast moving technological advances (high-throughput screening, combinatorial chemistry, genomics, proteomics)
which have increased the investment costs to conduct research and development;•increased challenges in addressing "unmet needs" (e.g. chronic diseases);•increased costs and extended timelines due to the difficulty in conducting trials in western countries; and•increasing clinical trial complexity, size and extended timelines due to increased requirements to demonstrate efficacy,
safety and cost effectiveness.

In
order to convert largely fixed costs into variable expenses and to facilitate and speed their research, our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers are making strategic decisions
to outsource a portfolio of services to high-quality full service providers like us. During the past decade, we believe that the growth of outsourcing by our customers has been driven by a
unique confluence of events, including:

•the current outlook for drugs coming off patent protection and resulting threats from generic drug manufacturers, which
are expected to affect a large percentage of these companies' existing revenues in the intermediate future;•the reduction over the past decade in the growth rate of drugs gaining approval;•increased pressure (1) to find drugs to cure and manage chronic diseases, many of which are complex and affect
small and/or aging patient populations and (2) to develop specialty and orphan drugs, in both cases increasing risk and cost of development while segmenting and shrinking the patient
populations from blockbusters to smaller, more specialized indications;•continued productivity and cost containment pressures on the medical device, diagnostics and biopharmaceutical industries
due in part to escalating global healthcare costs, increasing concentration of buying power attributable to larger payors and governments, while customers in those fields simultaneously need to manage
increased financial focus on operating margins and returns;•increasing globalization of drug development (particularly increased research and development activity in developing
countries);









•heightened regulatory authority scrutiny worldwide, particularly concerning drug safety; and•scrutiny of the medical value of new drugs being developed as compared to established therapies.

Over
the most recent couple of years, our customers have faced a more challenging market environment. Among the factors that have affected them, we have seen the following have the most
material impact and negatively affect outsourcing trends:

•

large pharmaceutical companies have intensified their cost-savings and efficiency actions, and have announced
significant initiatives to improve their research and development productivity and rationalize their drug pipelines. This focus has been manifested through consolidation and reductions in
infrastructure, spending constraints, pricing pressures and project delays and cancellations. In the short term, we have seen large pharmaceutical companies slow down their "early stage" preclinical
and Phase I studies in favor of their later-stage products as they reprioritize compound pipelines (focusing on the back-end of their pipelines in the near-term) and
moderate their spending per drug candidate;

•

biotechnology customers, particularly those that are cash-flow negative, have been highly focused on rationing
their liquid assets in a challenging funding environment;

•

sponsor consolidation, particularly several large and mid-sized biopharmaceutical company mergers;

•

many customers are narrowing their pipeline focus to a smaller number of similar, high-potential therapeutic areas where
they may yield the greatest returns (with particular focus and competition in oncology, metabolism/obesity, autoimmune/inflammatory, central nervous system and infectious disease);

•

many larger customers have diversified their technology platform bases and have extended their portfolios into biologics
(therapeutic proteins, antibodies, RNAi and vaccines) while retaining their core expertise in small molecules;

•

our customers generally have been focused on near-term cost controls as they contend with the challenges of
the global economic meltdown; and

•

senior management turnover and structural realignment has resulted in some internal turmoil and slower decision-making in
some of our larger customers while they finalize and roll-out their restructuring plans.

While
the short-term consequences of these factors have temporarily mitigated the outsourcing growth rate trends, we believe that in the mid-term there is no
fundamental change in our clients' drug development activities and strategies, and in fact these changes will provide enhanced outsourcing opportunities going forward. In fact, we remain optimistic
that with the closing of the major mergers in 2009 and the stabilization of other of the factors addressed above, the pharmaceutical industry will return to focusing on driving drugs and therapies
through the development pipeline. Also, we believe that as larger pharmaceutical companies become leaner and more efficient, generally focusing on their core competencies of fundamental research and
development and commercialization, they will also continue to be conservative in their staffing and further reduce their in-house expertise. This should lead to reinvigoration of
outsourcing as they assess their key internal priorities.

In
2009, we moderated our investment in capacity expansion in light of the heavy investments we made from 2006 through 2008. Nonetheless, the combination of reduced customer demand, cost
containment initiatives pursued by our customers and excess capacity within our industry generally, has resulted in significant pricing pressure in 2009 and into 2010. In response, we have taken a
number of steps to better support our customers in today's challenging environment, identify new strategies to enhance client satisfaction, improve operating efficiencies and generally strengthen our
business model.









First,
in the past year we closed or disposed of smaller, less efficient sites including PCS Arkansas and our Phase I facility in Scotland (as well as two small RMS sites in
Hungary and Belgium), and reduced headcount by about 1,000 (primarily throughout our PCS segment). This includes our recent decision to suspend operations at our PCS Massachusetts site. In light of
our completed facility expansions, our leaner infrastructure is intended to improve our operating margins while providing us with sufficient capacity and flexibility to accommodate increased demand in
the future.

Second,
we announced two internal organizational restructurings that affect our PCS business and our Sales and Marketing organization:

PCS Organizational Realignment:we restructured our Preclinical Services business to create a dual accountability structure with both
global
functional teams and site-level management. This new structure centralizes and integrates our global PCS portfolio and unites expertise from various facilities to support our client
programs, regardless of the specific site at which the program was initiated. This structure allows team members to easily share information and best practices globally, standardize operations and
improve efficiencies throughout Charles River. Most importantly, it further enables us to provide exceptional and consistent service at all levels and across all sites worldwide, which is particularly
important to those clients who utilize multiple Charles River sites.

Sales and Marketing Realignment:we realigned our enterprise-wide sales and marketing team with changes fully implemented at the
beginning of 2010. This enhances our client-centric focus and communications by segment through the establishment of a three-pronged sales organization with a focus on global biopharmaceutical
companies, small and mid-sized pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, and academic and government customers.

We
have designated dedicated sales professionals for each segment, enhancing our ability to meet customer needs by offering customized, tailored solutions across our entire portfolio.
Overall, this reorganization will allow us to provide more comprehensive coverage and support for all of the market segments among our diverse client population.

Finally,
we have also remained focused on internal process improvement initiatives. Specifically, we have continued our investment in our information technology systems and resources in
order to better serve our customers, harmonize our data, and streamline our processes. Our most visible effort has been the initial roll out of our integrated enterprise resource planning (ERP)
system. The first stage,
which included all of our United States sites as well as our RMS site in Canada, went live at the beginning of fiscal 2010, and other locations are expected to be added in later stages. In addition,
we have continued to expand our Lean Six Sigma program to reduce process cycle times, eliminate non-value add steps and optimize our operating efficiencies. Based on the initial success of
the program in our PCS business segment, we have recently expanded it to RMS to attain similar operational benefits and elevated the program director to a corporate vice president level.

We
intend to continue to broaden the scope of the products and services we provide across the drug development continuum primarily through internal development, which will be augmented,
as needed, through focused acquisitions and alliances. Our approach to acquisitions is a disciplined one that seeks to target businesses that are a sound strategic fit and that offer the prospect of
enhancing stockholder value. This strategy may include geographic expansion of existing core services, strengthening of one of our core services or the addition of a new product or service in a
related or adjacent business. In 2009, we completed 4 acquisitions, ranging in size from $5.4 million to $45.6 million.

We
believe that we are well positioned to exploit both existing and new outsourcing opportunities. As strategic outsourcing by our customers increases, we believe that our expertise in
areas previously addressed by our customers' in-house capabilities allows us to provide a more flexible, efficient and cost-effective alternative for them. In short, because
these products and services are the core of our business, we are able to build and maintain expertise and tap into economies of scale that are difficult for our customers to match within their
internal infrastructure.









In
addition, as our customers narrow their focus toward specific therapeutic areas, we have increasingly aligned our services portfolio along therapeutic lines, particularly those
subject to major research funding or focus, such as oncology, metabolism and obesity, autoimmune/inflammation, cardiovascular, infectious disease and central nervous system. We have also focused on
adding expertise in the biologics development areas. As a result of these collective efforts, we expect to be better positioned to gain market share by taking advantage of these trends, as well as
broader based collaboration across thein vivodiscovery to first-in-human continuum.

Customers

In 2010, we established a three-pronged sales organization with a focus on:

•global biopharmaceutical companies;•small and mid-sized pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies; and•academic and government customers.

Our
customers continue to consist primarily of all of the major pharmaceutical companies, many biotechnology companies, animal health, medical device, diagnostic and other life sciences
companies, and leading hospitals, academic institutions, and government agencies. We have stable, long-term relationships with many of our customers. During 2009, no single commercial
customer accounted for more than 6% of our total net sales.

For
information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to both of our business segments for the last three fiscal years, please see Note 10 included in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. For information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to operations
in the United States, Europe, Canada, Japan and other countries for each of the last three fiscal years, please review Note 10 included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

As part of our recent sales organization realignment, we have designated dedicated sales people for each our three customer segments
enhancing our ability to meet customer needs by offering customized, tailored solutions across our entire portfolio. In addition, our mid-market pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers
will benefit by additional support from a combination of account managers with broad portfolio knowledge and specialists with specific scientific expertise. This allows us to provide comprehensive
coverage of all of the market segments among our diverse client population.

We
sell our products and services principally through our direct sales force and account management teams, the majority of whom work in North America, with the balance in Europe and the
Asia-Pacific countries. Our primary promotional activities include organizing scientific symposia, publishing scientific papers and newsletters, making presentations and participating at
scientific conferences and trade shows in North America, Europe and Asia. We supplement these
scientifically based marketing activities with internet-based marketing, advertising and direct mail. In certain locales, our direct sales force is supplemented by international distributors and
agents for our products and services, particularly with respect to ourIn Vitroand Biopharmaceutical Services businesses.

Our
internal marketing/product management teams support the field sales staff and account management teams while developing and implementing programs to create close working
relationships with customers in the biomedical research industry. We maintain client/customer service, technical assistance and consulting service departments, which address both our customers'
routine and more specialized needs and generally serve as a scientific resource for our clients. We frequently assist our customers in solving problems related to animal husbandry, health and
genetics, biosecurity, preclinical and clinical study design, regulatory consulting, protocol development and other areas in which our expertise is widely recognized as a valuable resource by our
customers.









Our
marketing efforts are focused to stimulate demand for further outsourcing across our entire portfolio. We believe that our ability to provide solutions that address all aspects ofin vivobiology are
increasingly attractive to our customers, and we continue to design and market our commercial activities to deliver flexible,
customized programs designed by segment to meet our clients' global and site-specific needs.

Competition

Our strategy is to be a leader in each of the markets in which we participate. We compete in the marketplace on the basis of quality,
reputation, responsiveness, pricing, innovation, breadth of therapeutic and scientific expertise, timeliness and availability, supported by our professional bench strength inin vivobiology and
toxicology, global capabilities and strategically located facilities worldwide. We are able to offer a unique portfolio to support
most of the drug development continuum through our wide range of research models and research model services, discovery and imaging services and our broad array of both routine and specialized
preclinical services (through first-in-human Phase I clinical services).

The
competitive landscape for our two business segments varies.

•For RMS, our main competitors include three smaller competitors in North America (each of whom has a global scope), and
several smaller competitors in Europe and in Japan. Of our main U.S. competitors, two are privately held businesses and the third is a government funded, not-for-profit
institution. We believe that none of our main competitors in RMS has our comparable global reach, financial strength, breadth of product and services offerings, technical expertise or pharmaceutical
and biotechnology industry relationships.•As for PCS, we believe we are one of the two largest providers of preclinical services in the world, based on net service
revenue. Our commercial competitors for preclinical services consist of both publicly held and privately owned companies, and it is estimated that the top five participants (including Charles River)
account for approximately 50% of the global market (exclusive of clinical services), with the rest of the market remaining highly fragmented. Our PCS segment (including our Phase I business)
also competes with in-house departments of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and teaching hospitals.

We
believe that the barriers to entry in a majority of our business units are generally high and present a significant impediment for new market participants, particularly in those areas
which require substantial capital expenditures, trained and specialized personnel, and mandate GLP-compliant practices.

Industry Support and Animal Welfare

One of our core values is a concern for and commitment to animal welfare. We have been in the forefront of animal welfare improvements
in our industry, and continue to show our commitment with special recognition programs for employees who demonstrate an extraordinary commitment in this critical aspect of our business. We created our
own Humane Care Initiative, which is directed by our Animal Welfare and Training Group. The goal of the initiative is to assure that we continue as a worldwide leader in the humane care of laboratory
animals. Laboratory animals are an important resource that further our knowledge of living systems and contribute to the discovery of life-saving drugs and procedures. We work
hand-in-hand with the scientific community to understand how living conditions, handling procedures and stress play an important role in the quality and efficiency of research.
As animal caregivers and researchers, we are responsible to our clients and the public for the health and well being of the animals in our care.

We
support a wide variety of organizations and individuals working to further animal welfare as well as the interests of the biomedical research community. We fund scholarships to
laboratory animal training programs, provide financial support to non-profit institutions that educate the public about the











benefits
of animal research and provide awards and prizes to outstanding leaders in the laboratory animal medicine field.

Employees

As of December 26, 2009, we had approximately 8,000 employees including approximately 500 professionals with advanced degrees,
including Ph.D.s, D.V.M.s, and M.D.s. Our employees are not unionized in the United States although employees are unionized at some of our European facilities, consistent with local customs for our
industry. Our satisfaction surveys indicate that we have an excellent relationship with our employees.

Backlog

Our backlog for our PCS business segment was $273.7 million at December 26, 2009 as compared to $310.7 million at
December 27, 2008. Our preclinical services are performed over varying durations, from short to extended periods of time, which may be as long as several years. We maintain an order backlog to
track anticipated revenue from studies and projects that either have not started, but are anticipated to begin in the near future, or are in process and have not been completed. We only recognize a
study or project in backlog after we have received written evidence of a customer's intention to proceed. We do not recognize verbal orders. Cancelled studies or projects are removed from backlog.

We
believe our aggregate backlog as of any date is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of our future results for a variety of reasons. First, studies vary in duration
(i.e., some studies that are included in 2009 backlog may be completed in 2010, while others may be completed in later years). Second, the scope of studies may change, which may either increase
or decrease their value. Third, studies included in backlog may be subject to bonus or penalty payments. Fourth, studies may be terminated or delayed at any time by the client or regulatory
authorities for a number of reasons, including the failure of a drug to satisfy safety and efficacy requirements or a sponsor making a strategic decision that a study or service is no longer
necessary. Delayed contracts remain in our backlog until a determination of whether to continue, modify or cancel the study has been made. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to
realize all or most of the net revenues included in backlog or estimate the portion to be filled in the current year.

Regulatory Matters

As our business operates in a number of distinct operating environments and in a variety of locations worldwide, we are subject to
numerous, and sometimes overlapping, regulatory environments, as described below.

The
Animal Welfare Act (AWA) governs the care and use of certain species of animals used for research. The United States Congress has passed legislation which excludes laboratory rats,
mice and chickens used for research from regulation under the AWA. As a result, most of our United States small animal research model activities and our avian vaccine services operations are not
subject to regulation under the AWA. For regulated species, the AWA and attendant Animal Care regulations require producers and users of regulated species to provide veterinary care and to utilize
specific husbandry practices such as cage size, shipping conditions, sanitation and, for certain species, environmental enrichment to assure the welfare of these animals. We comply with licensing and
registration requirement standards set by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for the care and use of regulated species. Our animal production facilities and preclinical facilities in
the U.S. are accredited by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC), a private, nonprofit, international organization that promotes the humane
treatment of animals in science through voluntary accreditation and assessment programs. AAALAC covers all species of laboratory animals, including rats, mice and birds. Our preclinical business is
also generally regulated by the USDA.









Our import and export of animals in support of several of our business units as well as our operations in foreign countries are subject to a variety of national,
regional, and local laws and regulations, which establish the standards for the humane treatment, care and handling of animals by dealers and research facilities. We maintain the necessary
certificates, licenses, detailed standard operating procedures and other documentation required to comply with applicable regulations for the humane treatment of the animals in our custody at our
locations.

Our
PCS business also conducts human Phase I clinical trials and provides services in support of our clients' registration or licensing applications. Human clinical trials are
conducted in a progressive fashion beginning with Phase I, and in the case of approved drugs, continued through Phase IV trials. Phase I studies are the initial human clinical
trials and are conducted with a small number of subjects under highly controlled conditions. These clinical trials and services are performed in accordance with the International Conference on
Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use Good Clinical Practice Consolidated Guidance and in compliance with regulations governing the conduct of
clinical investigations and the protection of human clinical trial subjects. FDA regulations do not require a quality assurance program; however, our Phase I facility has an established quality
assurance unit that monitors the conduct and reporting of Phase I trials to assure that these trials are conducted in compliance with appropriate regulatory requirements.

Our
manufacturing businesses produces endotoxin test kits, reagents, cell banks used in research and biopharmaceutical production and vaccine support products. Additionally, several of
our laboratories conduct identity, stability and potency testing in support of our clients' manufacturing programs. These activities are subject to regulation by the FDA and other national regulatory
agencies under their respective Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) regulations. We are subject to inspection on a routine basis for compliance with these regulations. These regulations require that we
manufacture our products or perform testing in a prescribed manner with respect to GMP compliance, and maintain records of our manufacturing, testing and control activities. We also maintain an
Establishment License with USDA's Center for Veterinary Biologics (CVB) that covers certain of our sites which manufacture antigens used in a licensed diagnostic kit for rodents
or—particular to our avian vaccine services—which manufacture USDA licensed antigens, antibodies, and viruses that are sold to clients for use in the manufacturing of their own
USDA licensed products. Our vaccine support business also manufactures and markets three USDA licensed products that are considered final use products (Mycoplasma Gallisepticum Antigen, Mycoplasma
Melegridis Antigen and Mycoplasma Synoviae Antigen), and sites involved in the manufacture of these articles are subject to regular inspection by USDA/CVB.









All
of our sites are also subject to licensing and regulation under national, regional and local laws relating to the surface and air transportation of laboratory specimens, the
handling, storage and disposal of laboratory specimens, hazardous waste and radioactive materials, and the safety and health of laboratory employees. Although we believe we are currently in compliance
in all material respects with such national, regional and local laws (which include the USDA, the standards set by the International Air Transport Association, the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), and European oversight agencies), failure to comply could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and other
enforcement actions.

To
ensure that all business sectors comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements and satisfy our client expectations for quality and regulatory compliance, we have
established a corporate regulatory affairs and compliance organization that oversees our corporate quality system and all quality assurance functions within the Company, headed by our Corporate Vice
President for Regulatory Affairs and Compliance.

Intellectual Property

We develop and implement computer software and technically derived procedures and products intended to maximize the quality and
effectiveness of our services. Although our intellectual property rights are valuable to our success, we believe that such factors as the technical expertise, proprietary know-how, ability
and experience of our professionals are more important, and that, overall, these technological capabilities provide significant benefits to our clients. Where we consider it appropriate, steps are
taken to protect our know-how through confidentiality agreements and through registration of title or use. In addition, we in-license technology and products from other
companies when it enhances both our product and services business. In the future, in-licensing may become a larger initiative to enhancing our offerings, particularly as we focus on
therapeutic area expertise. With the exception of technology related to ourin vitrotesting business, including the Endosafe-PTS, and our
pathology based software development activities through our Systems Pathology Company subsidiary, we have no patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises or concessions which are material and upon which
any of the products or services we offer are dependent.

Corporate Governance











