Item 1.    Business



General

Corporate History

We began operating in 1947 and since then, we have undergone several changes to our business structure. Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. was incorporated in 1994 and in 2000, we completed our initial public offering. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CRL” and is included in the Standard & Poor's MidCap 400 and Composite 1500 indices, the Dow Jones US Biotechnology Index, the NYSE Composite and Healthcare Sector indices, and many of the Russell indices, among others. We are headquartered in Wilmington, Massachusetts. Our headquarters mailing address is 251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA, 01887, and the telephone number at that location is (781) 222-6000. Our Internet site iswww.criver.com. Material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to “Charles River,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

This Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet site as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. In addition, you may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports,









proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Overview

We are a leading global provider of solutions that accelerate the early-stage drug discovery and development process. The focus of our business isin vivobiology; our portfolio includes research models and services required to enablein vivodrug discovery and development.

Discoveryrepresents the earliest stages of research in the life sciences, directed at the identification, screening and selection of a lead compound for future drug development. Discovery activities typically extend anywhere from 4-6 years in conventional pharmaceutical research and development timelines.

Developmentactivities, which follow, and which can take up to 7-10 years, are directed at demonstrating thesafety, tolerabilityandclinical efficacyof the selected drug candidates. During the preclinical stage of the development process, a drug candidate is testedin vitro(typically on a cellular or sub-cellular level in a test tube or multi-well petri plate) andin vivo(in research models) to support planned or on-going human trials.

The development of new drugs requires the steadily increasing investment of time and money; various studies and reports estimate it takes between 10-16 years, up to $2.0 billion, and exploration of more than 10,000 drug compounds to produce a single FDA-approved drug. We are positioned to leverage our core competency inin vivobiology in an efficient and cost-effective way to aid our clients in bringing their drugs to market faster. Utilizing our broad portfolio of products and services enables our clients to reduce costs, increase speed and enhance their productivity and effectiveness in early-stage drug discovery and development.

We have been in the business of providing the research models required in research and development of new drugs, devices and therapies for 65 years. Over this time, we have built upon our core competency ofin vivobiology to develop a diverse and growing portfolio of products and services. Our client base includes global pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, government agencies, and leading hospitals and academic institutions around the world. We currently operate approximately 64 facilities in 15 countries worldwide. Our products and services, supported by our global infrastructure and deep scientific expertise, enable our clients to meet many of the challenges of early-stage life sciences research. In 2011, our net sales from continuing operations were $1.1 billion and our operating income from continuing operations was $174.3 million.

We have two reporting segments: Research Models and Services (RMS) and Preclinical Services (PCS).

Through our RMS segment, we have been supplying research models to the drug development industry since 1947. With over 150 different strains, we continue to maintain our position as the global leader in the production and sale of the most widely used rodent research model strains, principally genetically and microbiologically defined purpose-bred rats and mice. We also provide a variety of related services that are designed to assist our clients in supporting the use of research models in drug discovery and development. With multiple facilities located on three continents (North America, Europe and Asia), we maintain production centers, including barrier rooms and/or isolator facilities, strategically located near our clients. In 2011, RMS accounted for 61.7% of our total net sales from continuing operations and approximately 51% of our employees including approximately 100 science professionals with advanced scientific degrees.

Services provided by our PCS business segment enables our clients to outsource their critical, regulatory-required safety assessment and related drug development activities to us. The demand for these services has historically been driven by preclinical development programs of biotechnology companies, which traditionally have been outsourced, and also by the selective outsourcing strategy of larger global pharmaceutical companies. The basis for global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies choosing to outsource their development activities is traced to the significant investments in personnel, facilities and other capital resources required in order to efficiently and effectively conduct these activities.  Outsourcing allows them to focus on their core competencies of innovation and early drug discovery and, particularly for pharmaceutical companies, promotion and market distribution.

We are one of the two largest providers of preclinical (including both discovery and development) services worldwide and offer particular expertise in the design, execution and reporting of safety assessment studies, especially those dealing with large molecule (biologics) and other innovative therapies. We currently provide preclinical services at multiple facilities located in the United States, Canada, and Europe. Our PCS segment represented 38.3% of our total net sales from continuing operations in 2011 and employed 45% of our employees including approximately 295 science professionals with advanced scientific degrees.









We provide non-regulated (or non-GLP) discovery services in both the RMS and PCS business segments. As they have continued to reduce infrastructure and search for more efficient and cost effective models of drug discovery and development, large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are choosing to outsource more discovery services, which they historically considered core competencies. These services, which are generally non-regulated, are used by sponsors to screen molecules and make earlier “go-no go” decisions as to which molecules should be selected for continued investment.

Over the past three years, we have focused our efforts on unifying our businesses and improving the efficiency of our global operations. These actions were intended to enhance our ability to support our key pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients, who are increasingly seeking full service, global partners to whom they can outsource more of their early-stage drug research and development efforts. By some estimates, the outsourcedin vivodiscovery and drug development services markets in which we currently participate, ranging from research model production to  non-regulated discovery services to regulated safety assessment, has a current size of approximately $6.0 billion and in the aggregate is expected to increase over time as outsourcing trends continue. It is estimated that the market for regulated safety assessment services is approximately 40% outsourced, while emerging growth areas such asin vivodiscovery and certain research model services are believed to be less outsourced currently.

Research Models and Services (RMS).Our RMS segment is comprised of (1) Research Models, (2) Research Model Services and (3) other related products and services.

Research Models.A significant portion of this business is comprised of the commercial production and sale of research models, principally purpose-bred rats and mice for use by researchers. We provide our rodent models to numerous clients around the world, including most pharmaceutical companies, a broad range of biotechnology companies, many government agencies, and leading hospitals and academic institutions. We have 20 production facilities located in 7 countries worldwide, which are strategically located to be in close proximity to our clients. Our research models include both standard strains and disease models such as those with compromised immune systems, which are in demand as early-stage research tools. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and foreign regulatory bodies typically require that the safety and efficacy of new drug candidates be tested on research models like ours prior to testing in humans. As a result, our research models are an essential part of the drug discovery and development process.

Our rodent species have been and continue to be some of the most extensively used research models in the world, largely as a result of our continuous commitment to innovation and quality associated with the products. Our research models are bred and maintained in controlled environments which are designed to ensure that the models are free of specific viral and bacterial agents and other contaminants that can disrupt research operations and distort results. With our barrier room production capabilities, we are able to deliver consistently high-quality research models worldwide.

Our small research models include:

•outbred, which are genetically heterogeneous;

•inbred, which are genetically identical;

•hybrid, which are the offspring of two different inbred parents;

•spontaneous mutant, which contain a naturally occurring genetic mutation (such as immune deficiency); and

•other genetically modified research models, including knock-out models with one or more disabled genes and transgenic models.

We also offer proprietary, disease-specific mouse and rat models used to find new treatments for diseases such as diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular and kidney disease. We are presently focusing our disease model program on five areas of research: oncology, central nervous system, metabolic, cardiovascular and renal diseases.

In addition to our small research models, we also are a premier provider of high quality, purpose bred, specific-pathogen-free (SPF) large research models to the biomedical research community.

Research Model Services.RMS also offers a variety of services designed to support our clients use of research models in screening drug candidates. These services capitalize on the technologies and relationships developed through our research model business, and address the need among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource the non-core aspects of their drug discovery activities. These services include those which are related to the maintenance and monitoring of research









models, as well as services designed to implement efficacy screening protocols to improve the client's drug evaluation process. We currently offer four major categories of research models services-Genetically Engineered Models and Services, Insourcing Solutions (f/k/a Consulting and Staffing Services), Discovery Services and Research Animal Diagnostic Services.

Genetically Engineered Models and Services (GEMS).In this area of our business, we assist our clients in breeding and maintenance of research models purchased or purposefully created by our clients for biomedical research activities.  While the creation of a genetically engineered model (GEM) can be a critical scientific event, it is only the first step in the discovery process. Productive utilization of GEMs requires significant additional technical expertise in order to properly support early discovery research. We provide breeding expertise and colony development, quarantine, health monitoring, germplasm cryopreservation, and rederivation including assisted reproduction and genetic monitoring. We provide these services to clients around the world from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to hospitals and universities.

Insourcing Solutions.Building upon our core capability as the leading provider of high-quality research models, we manage research model care operations (including recruitment, training, staffing and management services) on behalf of government and academic organizations, as well as commercial clients. Demand for our services has been driven by the trend for research institutions to choose to retain certain elements of their research efforts in-house, but prefer to outsource staffing and management of those elements. In addition, we believe that our expertise inin vivobiology, and in particular research model care, facility operations, and discovery and development services, enhances the productivity and quality of our clients' research model programs.

Discovery Services.Augmenting our traditional model production and GEMS, we believe there are emerging opportunities to assist our clients in a variety of discovery, research, development and imaging areas. Expediting the development process of investigational agents by providing products and services to clients extends their internal capabilities, complements their internal expertise and helps reduce product development timelines. In addition, ourin vivobiology expertise positions us to provide complementary disease model services, which include surgical procedures, pre-conditioning and aging. Our discovery and research and development capabilities include facilities in North Carolina (focusing on therapeutic efficacy studies in oncology, inflammation and metabolic disease) and Finland (focusing on therapeutic efficacy studies for the evaluation of investigational agents for the treatment of diseases of the central nervous system). In addition, we offer therapeutic efficacy expertise in inflammation, metabolic, cardiovascular and oncologic pharmacology.

Research Animal Diagnostic Services.We assist our clients in monitoring and analyzing the health profiles of the research models and cell lines used in their research protocols. We developed this capability internally by building upon the scientific foundation created by the diagnostic laboratory needs of our research model business. Depending upon a client's needs, we may serve as its sole-source testing laboratory, or as an alternative source supporting its internal laboratory capabilities. We believe that the continued use, characterization and utilization of specific disease models and GEMs allows us to be well positioned to be the reference laboratory of choice for health testing of laboratory research models and an industry leader in the field of animal diagnostics.

Other Related Research Model Products and Services.We also offer two other categories of products and services within RMS:in vitroproducts and avian vaccine services.

In Vitro.OurIn Vitrobusiness provides non-animal, orin vitro,methods for lot release testing of medical devices and injectable drugs for endotoxin contamination. Endotoxin testing uses a processed extract from the blood of the horseshoe crab, known as limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL). The LAL test is the first and most successful FDA-validatedin vitroalternative to an animal model test to date. The extraction of blood does not harm the crabs, which are subsequently returned to their natural ocean environment. OurIn Vitrobusiness produces and distributes endotoxin testing kits, reagents, software, accessories, instruments and associated services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide. We are a market leader in endotoxin testing products and services, which are used for FDA-required quality control testing of injectable drugs and medical devices, their components and the processes by which they are manufactured.

Our growth in theIn Vitrobusiness is driven by our FDA approved line of next generation endotoxin testing products, which are based on the Endosafe Portable Testing System (Endosafe®-PTS™) technology that allows rapid endotoxin testing in the central laboratory or manufacturing environment. In recent years, we have expanded the PTS product portfolio to include a multiple sample testing system known as the Endosafe-MCS (multi cartridge system) in response to the demand of our higher testing volume clients. We anticipate continued adoption of rapid methods as our clients respond to the FDA's Process Analytical Technology (PAT) Initiative. In addition, we are planning to introduce a fully automated MCS in 2012, which will assist in penetrating our client's high-volume central testing laboratories. We also expect to see expanded use of this rapid endotoxin testing technology in non-traditional areas such as renal dialysis, nuclear and compounding pharmacies, and cellular therapy. We are currently exploring obtaining 510(k) medical device approval of this technology for clinical diagnostic









applications.

Avian Vaccine Services.We are the global leaderfor the supply of specific-pathogen-free, or SPF, fertile chicken eggs and chickens. SPF chicken embryos are used by animal health companies as self-contained “bioreactors” for the manufacture of live viruses. These viruses are used as a raw material primarily in poultry, as well as human, vaccine applications. The production of SPF eggs is performed under biosecure conditions, similar in many ways to our research model production. We have a worldwide presence, with several SPF egg production facilities in the United States, contracted production capabilities in Hungary, and franchise operations in China and India. We also operate a specialized avian laboratory in the United States, which provides in-house quality control testing of the SPF flocks, offers testing services to vaccine companies and commercial poultry operations, and manufactures poultry diagnostics and bulk antigens for poultry vaccines.

Preclinical Services (PCS).

We currently offer the following preclinical services, in which we include bothin vivoandin vitrostudies, supportive laboratory services, and strategic preclinical consulting and program management to support product development:

Discovery Support.At the earliest stages of lead compound identification, our scientists are engaged in evaluating the pharmacology of drug candidates in several important therapeutic areas, including:

•bone disease (using our state-of-the-art imaging and pathology capabilities);

•ophthalmology (using our models of neovascularization);

•general cardiovascular and device testing (using our surgical models); and

•oncology.

We also offer lead optimization strategies including early pharmacokinetic, metabolism, and toxicology support to help in early integrative drug selection criteria. The Discovery Support services that we offer through our PCS business are complementary to the Discovery Services that we offer through our RMS business.

Safety Assessment.We offer a full range of preclinical studies required for regulatory submission on a global basis.

Bioanalysis, Pharmacokinetics, and Drug Metabolism.In support of preclinical drug safety testing, our clients are required to demonstrate ample drug exposure, stability in the collected sample, kinetics of their drug or compound in circulation, the presence of metabolites, and with recombinant proteins and peptides, the presence or absence of anti-drug antibodies. We have scientific depth in the sophisticated bioanalytical techniques required to satisfy these requirements for a number of drug classes. After performing sample analysis for preclinical study support, we have the opportunity to capture the benefits of bridging the preclinical bioanalysis with subsequent clinical development. Once the analysis is complete, our scientists evaluate the data to provide information on the pharmacokinetics and/or toxicokinetics of the drug, as well as complete evaluation of the distribution of the drug or metabolites. Pharmacokinetics refers to understanding what the body does to a drug or compound once administered, including the process by which the drug is absorbed, distributed in the body, metabolized, and excreted (ADME); toxicokinetics refers to the same understanding as applied to higher doses that may result in adverse effects. Our clients require these studies for the full preclinical assessment of the disposition of the drug, the results of which are used in the final preclinical safety evaluation of the compound.

Toxicology.Toxicology is one of our core preclinical competencies and a competitive strength. Once a lead molecule is selected, appropriate toxicology studies are conducted in support of clinical trials in humans. These toxicology studies are typically performed in laboratory models to elucidate the potential adverse effects that a compound has on an organism over a variety of doses and over various time periods, and focus on safety and assessment of harmful effects. Our toxicology services feature:

•all the standard protocols for general toxicity testing (genotoxicity, safety pharmacology, acute, sub-acute, chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity bioassays) required for regulatory submissions supporting “first-in-human” to “first-to-the-market” strategies;

•expertise in specialty routes of administration and modes of administration (e.g., infusion, intravitreal, intrathecal, and inhalation), which are important not only for the testing of potential pharmaceuticals, but also for the safety testing of medical devices, industrial chemicals, food additives, agrochemicals, biocides, nutraceuticals, animal









health products and other materials;

•expertise in the conduct and assessment of reproductive and developmental toxicology studies (in support of larger scale and later-stage human clinical trials);

•services in important specialty areas such as ocular, bone, juvenile/neonatal, immuno-toxicity, photobiology and dermal testing;

•work in all major therapeutic areas;

•study design and strategic advice to our clients based on our wealth of experience and scientific expertise in support of drug development; and

•a strong history of assisting our clients in achieving their regulatory or internal milestones for safety testing, including studies addressing stem cell therapies, DNA vaccines, protein biotherapeutics, small molecules and medical devices.

Our preclinical facilities operate in compliance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLPs) to the extent required by the FDA as well as other international regulatory bodies. Our facilities are regularly inspected by U.S. and other regulatory compliance monitoring authorities, our clients' Quality Assurance departments and our own internal quality assessment program.

Pathology Services.In the drug development process, the ability to identify and characterize clinical and anatomic pathologic changes is critical in determining the safety of potential new therapeutics. We employ a large number of highly trained veterinary pathologists and other scientists who use state-of-the-art techniques to identify potential test article-related changes within tissues, fluids and cells, as well as at the molecular level. Pathology support is critical not only for regulatory safety assessment studies, but also for specialized investigative studies, discovery support, and stand-alone immunohistochemistry evaluations for monoclonal antibodies. Key “go/no-go” decisions regarding continued product development are typically dependent on the identification, characterization and evaluation of gross and microscopic pathology findings we perform for our clients.

Biopharmaceutical Services.We provide specialized testing of biologics and devices frequently outsourced by global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our laboratories in the United States, Germany, Scotland and Ireland provide timely, compliant molecular biology, virology, bioanalytical, immunochemistry, microbiology and related services. We confirm that biological processes and the drug candidates produced are consistent, correctly defined, stable and essentially contaminant free. This testing is required by the FDA and other global regulatory authorities for our clients to obtain new drug approvals, to maintain government licensed manufacturing facilities and to release approved therapeutic products for patient treatment.

Our manufacturing services group grows and stores well-characterized early-stage client cell lines for later development or manufacture of therapeutic proteins and vaccines for clinical trials. We also collaborate with clients on process development, validation, and manufacturing scale-up.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to be the preferred strategic global partner for our clients.  We aim to provide flexible, tailored solutions to help them accelerate and enhance the efficiency of their drug research and development efforts, and thereby drive our growth. Our strategy is to deliver a comprehensive and integrated portfolio of early-stage products and services which supports our clients' goal to maintain the flexible infrastructure they need in order to bring new therapies to market faster and more cost effectively. We believe we have certain competitive advantages in executing this strategy, as a result of our continuing focus on the following:

•Integrated Early-Stage Portfolio.We are the only large, global contract research organization (CRO) with a portfolio of products and services that focuses almost exclusively on the early-stage drug development platform (from research models and associated services, to non-regulated discovery services, to regulated safety assessment). As such, we are able to collaborate with clients at the earliest stages, when critical decisions are made regarding which molecules will remain in development, and to work alongside them as drug candidates move downstream through the nonclinical development process. In particular, our recognized expertise inin vivobiology provides us with a competitive advantage in understanding our client's molecules, and the challenges faced during the discovery and development process, including non-GLP efficacy and safety assessment testing critical for making “go/no-go” decisions.











•Deep Scientific Expertise.We are able to provide extensive scientific expertise which may be too costly for our clients to build and/or maintain in-house.  Our capabilities allow us to address our clients' demands for “non-core” but strategically importantin vivobiology activities and specialty services, such as certain specialty toxicology offerings that are prohibitive for clients to maintain in-house.  We have also increasingly aligned our services portfolio along therapeutic lines to simulate many of our clients' internal drug development organizations, particularly in therapeutic areas subject to major research funding or focus, such as oncology, metabolism and obesity, autoimmune/inflammation, cardiovascular, infectious disease and central nervous system.



•Superior Quality and Client Support.We maintain high quality standards through rigorous management of key performance indicators and an intense focus on biosecurity.  These standards allow clients to access products and services throughout our global network, with the confidence that they will obtain consistent results no matter where they choose to obtain their products or conduct their research.



•Flexible and Customized Solutions.We recognize that clients have individual needs and specific requirements, which increases the importance of flexibility when working with them. We deliver that flexibility through relationships that may take various and customized forms, and which tap into the broad array of physical and/or service resources that we provide.  We can help clients better balance their workload/staff requirements by drawing upon the higher utilization and efficiencies of our facilities, often allowing them to reduce their internal capacity and/or staff.  We can leverage the expertise embedded in our integrated early-stage portfolio to provide customized arrangements tailored to fit the specific need or therapeutic area focus of a particular client.  We are also able to provide additional value to those clients who choose broad based, multi-year partnerships across the breadth of our early-stage portfolio.



•Large, Global Partner.We believe there is a particular advantage in being a full service, high-quality provider of non-clinicalin vivoproducts and services on a global scale. Many of our clients, especially large pharmaceutical companies, have limited the number of suppliers with which they work, preferring to partner with Tier 1 CROs with a full breadth of capabilities.  Large CROs, like Charles River, can present clients with access to greater value through the benefits of economies of scale and scope, extensive therapeutic area expertise, a global footprint, and simplified communications and relationship management.  We are focused on leveraging our competitive advantages to ensure we are recognized as a premier preferred provider and building broader and deeper long-term strategic partnerships with our clients.



This strategy and focus has been developed in recognition of the needs of our clients, who are increasingly facing pressure to manage their research and development costs, while at the same time maintain or develop a strong pipeline of innovative new drugs, conduct research and development in multiple countries simultaneously, and identify, hire and retain a breadth of scientific and technical experts.  In order to convert what has historically been largely fixed costs into variable expenses and to facilitate and speed their research, our pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients are making strategic decisions to outsource a portfolio of services to high quality, full-service providers like us. Our business prospects are driven primarily by this trend towards the virtualization of our clients through outsourcing, as well as by the level of research and development spending by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, the federal government and academic institutions. Outsourcing allows our clients to concentrate their internal expertise and resources on early drug discovery in areas such as lead identification and optimization (and for more mature companies, post-approval marketing), while continuing to advance their most promising products through the development pipeline. This creates opportunities for companies such as ours who can help optimize our clients' programs and assist in accelerating their drug discovery and development process.

In recent years, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have faced challenges that negatively affected demand (and pricing) for outsourced preclinical development services. These challenges included:

•patent expirations of blockbuster drugs;



•intensified cost-saving and efficiency actions designed to improve research and development productivity;



•a stronger emphasis on later-stage programs to accelerate drugs in clinical trials to market;



•increased pharmaceutical merger activity and the associated integration issues;



•rationalization of drug pipelines to focus on a smaller number of high-potential therapeutic areas;



•fluctuations in the biotech funding environment; and











•an uncertain global economy.



The result has been a fundamental change in our clients' research and development models, particularly with regard to the large pharmaceutical industry.  First, these clients are increasingly emphasizing shorter term, non-regulated efficacy studies designed to eliminate non-viable molecules earlier in the development process.  This results in a more limited number of molecules undergoing regulated safety assessment, and a greater focus on discovery services, including non-regulated testing such as DMPK (drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics) andin vivopharmacology.  Second, these clients are choosing to outsource more discovery services in order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of their drug research processes.

We believe that these changes will provide enhanced outsourcing opportunities for us going forward. In fact, we remain optimistic that their receptiveness towards increased discovery services outsourcing and the stabilization of other factors addressed above, including the successful launch of new therapies currently in late-stage development and the subsequent need to replenish early-stage pipelines, will eventually drive the pharmaceutical industry to re-focus on their early-stage development efforts.  Also, we believe that as larger pharmaceutical companies become leaner and more efficient, generally focusing on their core competencies of fundamental research and development and commercialization, they will also continue to be conservative in their staffing and further reduce their in-house expertise. This should lead to a reinvigoration of outsourcing as they choose to utilize external resources rather than invest in internal infrastructure. In the aggregate, we believe that the evolving large pharmaceutical research and development model will make our essential products and services even more relevant to our clients, and allows them to leverage our integrated offerings and expertise to drive their R&D efficiency and cost effectiveness.

To address the challenging market conditions which have persisted over the last few years, we have taken significant steps to better support our clients, identify new strategies to enhance client satisfaction, improve operating efficiency, and generally strengthen our business model. In 2009, we realigned our sales force in order to enhance our ability to support our clients and to focus on three particular client segments: global biopharmaceutical companies; mid-tier biopharmaceutical companies; and academic/government institutions.  Also in 2009, we realigned our PCS business along functional lines in order to continue the process of standardizing and harmonizing our procedures, which has enabled clients to place work with us at multiple locations with the knowledge that procedures are consistently performed and data delivered in standard formats. In 2010, we began the implementation of an ERP system in order to improve availability of and access to data.  In October 2011, we took the next step to further integrate our businesses by unifying RMS and PCS globally.  We took this action to strengthen the linkage between the businesses, which enables us to offer clients more seamless access to our broad portfolio and scientific expertise.

We also began to take decisive actions in 2009 to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency through a combination of Lean Six Sigma initiatives and cost-savings actions.  These actions were intended to right-size our infrastructure and to identify opportunities to operate more efficiently. In 2011, in addition to our Six Sigma initiative, we undertook a project to identify and implement additional operating efficiencies. These actions were designed to streamline our operating infrastructure, reduce process cycle times, and eliminate non-value added steps so that we could support our clients more efficiently and at a lower cost.

In December 2010, we announced an intensified focus on four key initiatives designed to allow us to drive profitable growth and maximize value for shareholders, and thus better position ourselves to operate successfully in the current and future business environment. We made significant progress in 2011 on these key initiatives:









Initiative2011 ProgressImprove our consolidated operating marginImproved consolidated operating margin from continuing operations achieved due to:Ÿincreased RMS margin,Ÿstable Corporate costs,ŸNovember 2010 cost-savings actions, andŸsix-sigma and other process improvement initiativesImprove our free cash flow generationŸFree cash flow increased in 2011 to a per-share yield we believe was the highest among public CROs.ŸDivested non-strategic / underperforming PCS assets (U.S. Phase 1 clinical and China preclinical facility)Disciplined investment in growth businessesCapital projects invested in growth business:ŸDiagnostic laboratories opening in 2012,ŸIn Vitro production facility in China, andŸCapacity expansion in Finland Discovery Services business.Return value to shareholdersŸRepurchased 8.4 million shares of common stock for a total purchase price of approximately $300 million.



In light of our actions and intensified focus, we believe that we are well positioned to exploit both existing and new outsourcing opportunities. As strategic outsourcing by our clients increases, and in particular by larger biopharmaceutical clients, we believe that our expertise in areas previously addressed by our clients' in-house capabilities allows us to provide a more flexible, efficient and cost-effective alternative for them. In short, because these products and services are the core of our business, we are able to build and maintain expertise and achieve economies of scale that are difficult for our clients to match within their internal infrastructures.

We intend to continue to broaden the scope of the products and services we provide across the early-stage drug development continuum primarily through internal development, which will be augmented, as needed, through focused acquisitions and alliances. Acquisitions are an integral part of our growth strategy, but we are committed to a disciplined approach that seeks to target businesses that are a sound strategic fit and that offer the prospect of enhancing shareholder value, typically including the achievement of a hurdle rate on return on invested capital above our weighted cost of capital. This strategy may include geographic expansion of existing core services, strengthening our core services or technical capabilities or the addition of a new product or service in a related or adjacent business.  In 2011, we identified and evaluated a number of acquisition opportunities, but none that met our criteria closed during the year.

Customers

We maintain a three-pronged sales organization with a focus on:

•global biopharmaceutical companies;

•small and mid-sized pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies; and

•academic and government clients.

Our clients continue to consist primarily of all of the major pharmaceutical companies, many biotechnology companies, contract research organizations (CROs), agricultural and chemical companies, life science, veterinary medicine, contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs), medical device, diagnostic and other commercial entities, as well as leading hospitals, academic institutions, and government agencies. We have stable, long-term relationships with many of our clients. During 2011, no single commercial client accounted for more than 5% of our total net sales.

For information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to both of our business segments for the last three fiscal years, please see Note 12 included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. For information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to operations in the United States, Europe, Canada, Japan and other countries for each of the last three fiscal years, please review Note 12 included in the Notes to









Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

We have designated dedicated sales people for each of our three client segments, enhancing our ability to meet client needs by offering customized, tailored solutions across our entire portfolio. In addition, our mid-market pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients will benefit by additional support from a combination of account managers with broad portfolio knowledge and specialists with specific scientific expertise. This allows us to provide comprehensive coverage of all of the market segments among our diverse client population.

We sell our products and services principally through our direct sales force and account management teams, the majority of whom work in North America, with the balance in Europe and the Asia-Pacific countries. In addition to interactions with our direct sales force, our primary promotional activities include organizing scientific symposia, publishing scientific papers and newsletters, webinars, and making presentations and participating at scientific conferences and trade shows in North America, Europe and Asia. We supplement these scientifically based marketing activities with internet-based marketing, advertising and direct mail. In certain locales, our direct sales force is supplemented by international distributors and agents for our products and services, particularly with respect to ourIn Vitroand Biopharmaceutical Services businesses.

Our internal marketing/product management teams support the field sales staff and account management teams while developing and implementing programs to create close working relationships with clients in the biomedical research industry. We maintain customer service, technical assistance and consulting service departments (in addition to project managers for our service businesses), which address both our clients' routine and more specialized needs and generally serve as a scientific resource for them. We frequently assist our clients in solving problems related to animal husbandry, health and genetics, biosecurity, preclinical study design, regulatory consulting, protocol development and other areas in which our expertise is widely recognized as a valuable resource by our clients.

Our marketing efforts are focused on stimulating demand for further outsourcing across our entire portfolio. We believe that our ability to provide solutions that address all aspects ofin vivobiology are increasingly attractive to our clients, and we continue to design and market our commercial activities to deliver flexible, customized programs designed by segment to meet our clients' global and site-specific needs.

Competition

Our goal is to be a leader in each of the markets in which we participate. We compete in the marketplace on the basis of our therapeutic and scientific expertise inin vivobiology, quality, reputation, flexibility, responsiveness, pricing, innovation and global capabilities. We are able to offer a unique portfolio of early-stage products and services to support drug discovery and development.

The competitive landscape for our two business segments varies.

•For RMS, our main competitors include three smaller companies in North America (each of whom has a global scope), and several smaller competitors in Europe and in Japan. Of our main U.S. competitors, two are privately held businesses and the third is a government funded, not-for-profit institution. We believe that none of our main competitors in RMS has our comparable global reach, financial strength, breadth of product and services offerings, technical expertise or pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry relationships.

•For PCS, we believe we are one of the two largest providers of preclinical services in the world, based on net service revenue. Our commercial competitors for preclinical services consist of both publicly held and privately owned companies, and it is estimated that the top ten participants (including Charles River) account for a significant portion of the global outsourced preclinical market, with the rest of the market remaining highly fragmented. Our PCS segment also competes with in-house departments of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and teaching hospitals.

We believe that the barriers to entry in a majority of our business units are generally high and present a significant impediment for new market participants, particularly in those areas which require substantial capital expenditures, trained and specialized personnel, and mandate GLP-compliant practices.

Industry Support and Animal Welfare









One of our core values is a concern for and commitment to animal welfare. We have been in the forefront of animal welfare improvements in our industry, and continue to show our commitment with special recognition programs for employees who demonstrate an extraordinary commitment in this critical aspect of our business. We created our own Humane Care Initiative, which is directed by our Animal Welfare and Training Group. The goal of the initiative is to assure that we continue as a worldwide leader in the humane care of laboratory animals. Laboratory animals are an important resource that further our knowledge of living systems and contribute to the discovery of life-saving drugs and procedures. We work hand-in-hand with the scientific community to understand how living conditions, handling procedures and stress play an important role in the quality and efficiency of research. As animal caregivers and researchers, we are responsible to our clients and the public for the health and well being of the animals in our care.

We support a wide variety of organizations and individuals working to further animal welfare as well as the interests of the biomedical research community. We fund scholarships to laboratory animal training programs, provide financial support to non-profit institutions that educate the public about the benefits of animal research and provide awards and prizes to outstanding leaders in the laboratory animal medicine field.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 7,100 employees (including approximately 400 professionals with advanced scientific degrees, including Ph.D.s, D.V.M.s, and M.D.s). Our employees are not unionized in the United States,although employees are unionized at some of our European facilities, consistent with local customs for our industry. Our past employee surveys have indicated that we have excellent relationships with our employees.

Backlog

Our backlog for our PCS business segment from continuing operations was $202.5 million at December 31, 2011, as compared to $219.9 million at December 25, 2010. Our preclinical services are performed over varying durations, from short to extended periods of time, which may be as long as several years. We maintain an order backlog to track anticipated revenue from studies and projects that either have not started, but are anticipated to begin in the near future, or are in process and have not been completed. We only recognize a study or project in backlog after we have received written evidence of a client's intention to proceed. We do not recognize verbal orders as backlog.  Cancelled studies or projects are removed from backlog. We do not report backlog for our RMS business segment because turnaround time from order placement to fulfillment, both for products and services, is rapid.

We believe our aggregate backlog as of any date is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of our future results for a variety of reasons. First, studies vary in duration (i.e., some studies that are included in 2011 backlog may be completed in 2012, while others may be completed in later years). Second, the scope of studies may change, which may either increase or decrease their value. Third, studies included in backlog may be subject to bonus or penalty payments. Fourth, studies may be terminated or delayed at any time by the client or regulatory authorities for a number of reasons, including the failure of a drug to satisfy safety and efficacy requirements or a sponsor making a strategic decision that a study or service is no longer necessary. Delayed contracts remain in our backlog until a determination of whether to continue, modify or cancel the study has been made. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to realize all or most of the net revenues included in backlog or estimate the portion to be filled in the current year.

Regulatory Matters

As our business operates in a number of distinct operating environments and in a variety of locations worldwide, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes overlapping, regulatory environments.

The Animal Welfare Act (AWA) governs the care and use of certain species of animals used for research. The United States Congress has passed legislation which excludes laboratory rats, mice and chickens used for research from regulation under the AWA. As a result, most of our U.S. small animal research models activities and our avian vaccine services operations are not subject to regulation under the AWA. For regulated species, the AWA and attendant Animal Care regulations require producers and users of regulated species to provide veterinary care and to utilize specific husbandry practices such as cage size, shipping conditions, sanitation and, for certain species, environmental enrichment to assure the welfare of these animals. We comply with licensing and registration requirement standards set by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for the care and use of regulated species. Our animal production facilities and preclinical facilities in the U.S. are accredited by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC), a private, nonprofit, international organization that promotes the humane treatment of animals in science through voluntary accreditation and assessment programs. AAALAC covers all species of laboratory animals, including rats, mice and birds. Our preclinical









business is also generally regulated by the USDA.

Our import and export of animals in support of several of our business units as well as our operations in foreign countries are subject to international agreements and conventions, as well as a variety of national, regional, and local laws and regulations, which establish the standards for the humane treatment, care and handling of animals by dealers and research facilities. We maintain the necessary certificates, licenses, detailed standard operating procedures and other documentation required to comply with applicable regulations for the humane treatment of the animals in our custody at our locations.

Our manufacturing businesses produce endotoxin test kits, reagents, cell banks used in research and biopharmaceutical production and vaccine support products. Additionally, several of our laboratories conduct identity, stability and potency testing in support of our clients' manufacturing programs. These activities are subject to regulation by the FDA and other national regulatory agencies under their respective current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations. We are subject to inspection on a routine basis for compliance with these regulations. These regulations require that we manufacture our products or perform testing in a prescribed manner with respect to cGMP compliance, and maintain records of our manufacturing, testing and control activities. We also maintain a Biological License Agreement (BLA) with the FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) that covers the manufacture and distribution of

in vitro

diagnostic reagents in detecting endotoxins.  We also maintain an Establishment License with USDA's Center for Veterinary Biologics (CVB) that covers certain of our sites which manufacture USDA licensed antigens, antibodies, and viruses that are sold to clients for use in the manufacturing of their own USDA licensed products. Our vaccine support business also manufactures and markets three USDA licensed products that are considered final use products (Mycoplasma Gallisepticum Antigen, Mycoplasma Melegridis Antigen and Mycoplasma Synoviae Antigen), and sites involved in the manufacture of these articles are subject to regular inspection by USDA/CVB.

All of our sites are also subject to licensing and regulation under national, regional and local laws relating to the surface and air transportation of laboratory specimens, the handling, storage and disposal of laboratory specimens, hazardous waste and radioactive materials, and the safety and health of laboratory employees. Although we believe we are currently in compliance in all material respects with such national, regional and local laws (which include the USDA, the standards set by the International Air Transport Association, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), and European oversight agencies), failure to comply could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and other enforcement actions.

To ensure that all business sectors comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements and satisfy our client expectations for quality and regulatory compliance, we have established a corporate regulatory affairs and compliance organization that oversees our corporate quality system and all of our quality assurance functions.

Intellectual Property

We develop and implement computer software and technically derived procedures and products intended to maximize the quality and effectiveness of our services. Although our intellectual property rights are valuable to our success, we believe that such factors as the technical expertise, proprietary know-how, ability and experience of our professionals are more important, and that, overall, these technological capabilities provide significant benefits to our clients. Where we consider it appropriate, steps are taken to protect our know-how through confidentiality agreements and through registrations. In addition, we in-license technology and products from other companies when it enhances both our product and services businesses. In the future, in-licensing may become a larger initiative to enhancing our offerings, particularly as we focus on therapeutic area









expertise. With the exception of technology related to ourIn Vitrotesting business, including the Endosafe-PTS, we have no patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises or concessions which are material and upon which any of the products or services we offer are dependent.

Corporate Governance





