
10-K
ANNUAL REPORT


================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                             ----------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                     Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                        Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended: December 31, 1994     Commission File Number: 1-10551

                             ----------------------
                                   
                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           New York                                      13-1514814
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

    437 Madison Avenue, New York, NY                        10022
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 415-3600


          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                          Name of each exchange
        Title of each class                                on which registered
        -------------------                               --------------------
   Common Stock, $.50 Par Value                          New York Stock Exchange

        Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X   No
                                              ---     ---

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  registrant's   knowledge,  in  the  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

     At  March  15,  1995,   there  were  36,115,328   shares  of  Common  Stock
outstanding;   the   aggregate   market  value  of  the  voting  stock  held  by
nonaffiliates at March 15, 1995 was approximately $1,947,100,000.

     Indicate  the  number of  shares  outstanding  of each of the  registrant's
classes of stock, as of the latest practicable date.

            Class                                Outstanding at March 15, 1995
 Common Stock, $.50 Par Value                               36,115,328
 Preferred Stock, $1.00 Par Value                              NONE

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain portions of the Registrant's  definitive proxy statement relating to its
annual  meeting  of  shareholders  scheduled  to be  held on May  22,  1995  are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.

================================================================================






                                     PART I
Item 1.   Business

     Omnicom  Group  Inc.,  through  its  wholly and  partially-owned  companies
(hereinafter  collectively  referred to as the "Agency" or "Company"),  operates
advertising  agencies  which  plan,  create,  produce and place  advertising  in
various media such as television,  radio,  newspaper and  magazines.  The Agency
offers its clients such additional services as marketing consultation,  consumer
market  research,  design and production of  merchandising  and sales  promotion
programs and materials, direct mail advertising,  corporate identification,  and
public  relations.  The Agency offers these  services to clients  worldwide on a
local,  national,  pan-regional  or  global  basis.  Operations  cover the major
regions of North America,  the United Kingdom,  Continental  Europe,  the Middle
East, Africa, Latin America,  the Far East and Australia.  In 1994 and 1993, 54%
and  52%,  respectively,  of  the  Agency's  billings  came  from  its  non-U.S.
operations. (See "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data")

     According to the  unaudited  industry-wide  figures  published in the trade
journal,  Advertising  Age, in 1994  Omnicom  Group Inc. was ranked as the third
largest advertising agency group worldwide.

     The Agency operates three separate,  independent agency networks:  The BBDO
Worldwide Network,  the DDB Needham Worldwide Network and the TBWA International
Network.  The Agency also operates independent  agencies,  Altschiller & Company
and Goodby,  Silverstein & Partners, and certain marketing service and specialty
advertising companies through Diversified Agency Services ("DAS").

The BBDO Worldwide, DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International Networks

General

     BBDO Worldwide, DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International, by themselves
and through their respective subsidiaries and affiliates,  independently operate
advertising  agency  networks  worldwide.  Their  primary  business is to create
marketing  communications for their clients' goods and services across the total
spectrum of advertising and promotion media. Each of the agency networks has its
own  clients  and  competes  with  each  other  in the  same  markets.

     The BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International  agencies
typically  assign to each client a group of  advertising  specialists  which may
include account  managers,  copywriters,  art directors and research,  media and
production personnel.  The account manager works with the client to establish an
overall advertising strategy for the client based on an analysis of the client's
products or services and its market. The group then creates and arranges for the
production of the  advertising  and/or  promotion and purchases  time,  space or
access in the relevant media in accordance with the client's budget.

BBDO Worldwide Network

     The BBDO  Worldwide  Network  operates in the United  States  through  BBDO
Worldwide which is headquartered in New York and has full-service offices in New
York,  New York; Los Angeles and San Francisco,  California;  Atlanta,  Georgia;
Chicago, Illinois; Detroit, Michigan; and Minneapolis, Minnesota.

     The BBDO Worldwide Network operates internationally through subsidiaries in
Austria,  Belgium,  Brazil, Canada, China, Croatia,  Denmark,  Finland,  France,
Germany,  Greece,  Hong Kong, Italy,  Malaysia,  Mexico, the Netherlands,  Peru,
Poland,  Portugal,  Puerto  Rico,  Russia,  Singapore,  Spain,  Sweden,  Taiwan,
Thailand and the United Kingdom;  and through  affiliates  located in Argentina,
Australia, Chile, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras,  Hungary, India, Israel, Lebanon, Kuwait, New Zealand, Norway, Panama,
the  Philippines,  Romania,  Saudi  Arabia,  the Slovak  Republic,  Switzerland,
Turkey,  the United Kingdom,  United Arab Emirates and Venezuela;  and through a
joint  venture  in  Japan.  The BBDO  Worldwide  Network  uses the  services  of
associate agencies in Colombia,  Dominican Republic,  Ecuador, Indonesia, Korea,
Nicaragua, Pakistan and Uruguay.

DDB Needham Worldwide Network

     The DDB Needham Worldwide Network operates in the United States through DDB
Needham  Worldwide  which is  headquartered  in New  York  and has  full-service
offices in New York, New York; Los Angeles, California;  Dallas, Texas; Chicago,
Illinois;  and Seattle,  Washington;  and through  Griffin  Bacal Inc.  which is
headquartered in New York.






     The  DDB  Needham  Worldwide  Network  operates   internationally   through
subsidiaries in Australia,  Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, China, the Czech
Republic,  Denmark,  France, Germany,  Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Italy, Japan,
Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Singapore,  the Slovak Republic,  Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, Thailand and the United
Kingdom; and through affiliates located in Brazil,  Costa Rica, Egypt,  Estonia,
Finland,  Germany,  India, Korea,  Malaysia,  Switzerland and Thailand.  The DDB
Needham  Worldwide  Network uses the  services of  associate  agencies in Miami,
Florida and in Argentina,  Bahrain, Belize, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia,  Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel,
Kuwait,  Lebanon,  Nicaragua,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Puerto Rico,  Romania,
Russia, Saudi Arabia,  Slovenia,  South Africa,  Trinidad,  Turkey,  United Arab
Emirates,  Uruguay and Venezuela.  Griffin Bacal Inc.  operates  internationally
through  subsidiaries  in Canada and the United  Kingdom and through a branch in
Mexico.

TBWA International Network

     TBWA  International  B.V., a  corporation  organized  under the laws of the
Netherlands, is the holding company for the TBWA International Network.

     The TBWA  International  Network operates in the United States through TBWA
Advertising and Graf Bertel Buczek which are both headquartered in New York, New
York and through TBWA Wolfe Freeman Advertising, Inc. in St. Louis, Missouri.

     The   TBWA   International   Network   operates   internationally   through
subsidiaries  in  Belgium,   Denmark,   France,  Germany,   Greece,  Italy,  the
Netherlands,  South Africa, Spain and the United Kingdom; and through affiliates
located in Mexico,  Portugal,  South Africa,  Sweden and  Switzerland.  The TBWA
International  Network uses the services of associate  agencies in Austria,  the
Czech Republic, Hungary, India, Japan, the Middle East, the Netherlands, Norway,
Poland and Turkey.

Diversified Agency Services

     DAS is the Company's Marketing Services and Specialty  Advertising division
whose agencies'  mission is to provide customer driven marketing  communications
coordinated to the client's  benefit.  The division  offers  marketing  services
including sales  promotion,  public  relations,  direct and database  marketing,
corporate  and brand  identity,  graphic  arts,  merchandising/point-of-purchase
promotion;  and  specialty  advertising  including  financial,   healthcare  and
recruitment advertising.

     DAS agencies  headquartered in the United States include:  Harrison,  Star,
Wiener & Beitler, Inc., Interbrand Schechter Inc., Kallir,  Philips, Ross, Inc.,
RC Communications,  Inc.,  Merkley Newman Harty Inc.,  Lyons/Lavey/Nickel/Swift,
Inc. and Shain Colavito Pensabene Direct,  Inc., in New York; Doremus & Company,
Gavin Anderson & Company  Worldwide,  Inc., Porter Novelli,  Inc., Bernard Hodes
Advertising,  Inc. and Rapp Collins  Worldwide  Inc.,  all in various cities and
headquartered  in New York;  Baxter,  Gurian & Mazzei,  Inc., in Beverly  Hills,
California;  Frank J. Corbett, Inc., in Chicago, Illinois; Thomas A. Schutz Co.,
Inc. in Morton Grove, Illinois; The GMR Group, in Fort Washington, Pennsylvania;
Optima Direct Inc., in Vienna, Virginia; Rainoldi, Kerzner & Radcliffe, Inc., in
San Francisco,  California and Alcone Sims O'Brien, Inc., in Irvine,  California
and Mahwah, New Jersey.

     DAS  operates in the United  Kingdom  through  subsidiaries  which  include
Colour Solutions Ltd., Countrywide  Communications Group Ltd., CPM International
Ltd., European Political Consultancy Group Ltd., Granby Marketing Services Ltd.,
Interbrand (UK) Ltd.,  MacMillan  Davies  Advertising,  Ltd.,  MacMillan  Davies
Consultants,  Ltd., Paling Ellis/KPR, Ltd., Premier Magazines Ltd., Product Plus
London Ltd.,  Specialist  Publications (UK) Ltd., The Anvil Consultancy Ltd. and
WWAV Rapp Collins Group, Ltd.

     In addition, DAS operates  internationally with subsidiaries and affiliates
in Australia,  Belgium,  Canada,  France,  Germany,  Hong Kong, Ireland,  Italy,
Japan, Korea, Mexico, South Africa and Spain.

Omnicom Group Inc.

     As the parent  company  of BBDO  Worldwide,  DDB  Needham  Worldwide,  TBWA
International,  the DAS Group, Goodby,  Silverstein & Partners and Altschiller &
Company,  the Company,  through its wholly-owned  subsidiary  Omnicom Management
Inc.  provides a common  financial  and  administrative  base for the  operating
groups.  The Company  oversees  the  operations  of each group  through  regular
meetings  with  their  respective   top-level   management.   The  Company  sets
operational  goals for each of the groups and evaluates  performance through the




review of monthly  operational and financial  reports.  The Company provides its
groups with centralized  services designed to coordinate financial reporting and
controls,  real estate planning and to focus corporate  development  objectives.
The Company develops  consolidated  services for its agencies and their clients.
For example,  the Company  participated in forming The Media Partnership,  which
consolidates  certain media buying  activities in Europe in order to obtain cost
savings for clients.

Clients

     The clients of the Agency include major  industrial,  financial and service
industry  companies  as well as smaller,  local  clients.  Among its clients are
Anheuser-Busch,  Apple Computer, Chrysler Corporation, Delta Airlines, Gillette,
GTE, Henkel,  McDonald's,  PepsiCo., Visa U.S.A., Volkswagen and The Wm. Wrigley
Jr. Company.

     The Agency's ten largest clients  accounted for  approximately  18% of 1994
billings.  The majority of these have been clients for more than ten years.  The
Agency's largest client accounted for less than 5% of 1994 billings.


Revenues

     Commissions  charged on media  billings are the primary  source of revenues
for the Agency.  Commission  rates are not uniform and are  negotiated  with the
client. In accordance with industry  practice,  the media source typically bills
the Agency for the time or space  purchased  and the Agency bills its client for
this amount plus the commission.  The Agency typically requires that payment for
media charges be received  from the client  before the Agency makes  payments to
the  media.  In some  instances  a  member  of the  Omnicom  Group,  like  other
advertising  agencies,  is at risk in the event that its client is unable to pay
the media.

     The Agency's  advertising  networks also generate revenues in arranging for
the production of advertisements and commercials. Although, as a general matter,
the Agency  does not itself  produce the  advertisements  and  commercials,  the
Agency's  creative and  production  staff directs and  supervises the production
company. The Agency bills the client for production costs plus a commission.  In
some circumstances, certain production work is done by the Agency's personnel.

     In some cases, fees are generated in lieu of commissions. Several different
fee  arrangements  are used depending on client and individual  agency needs. In
general, fee charges relate to the cost of providing services plus a markup. The
DAS Group primarily charges fees for its various specialty services,  which vary
in type  and  scale,  depending  upon  the  service  rendered  and the  client's
requirements.

     Advertising  agency revenues are dependent upon the marketing  requirements
of clients  and tend to be highest  in the  second  and fourth  quarters  of the
fiscal year.

Other Information

     For additional  information  concerning the  contribution of  international
operations  to  commissions  and fees and net  income see Note 5 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

     The Agency is continuously developing new methods of improving its research
capabilities,  to analyze specific client  requirements and to assess the impact
of advertising.  In the United States,  approximately 146 people on the Agency's
staff  were  employed  in  research  during the year and the  Agency's  domestic
research expenditures approximated $20,395,000.  Substantially all such expenses
were incurred in connection with contemporaneous servicing of clients.

     The  advertising  business is highly  competitive  and  accounts  may shift
agencies with  comparative  ease,  usually on 90 days' notice.  Clients may also
reduce  advertising  budgets at any time for any reason.  An agency's ability to
compete for new clients is affected in some instances by the policy,  which many
advertisers  follow,  of not permitting their agencies to represent  competitive
accounts in the same market. As a result,  increasing size may limit an agency's
potential  for  securing  certain new  clients.  In the vast  majority of cases,
however,  the separate,  independent  identities of BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham
Worldwide,  TBWA International,  the independent  agencies within the DAS Group,
Goodby, Silverstein & Partners and Altschiller & Company have enabled the Agency
to represent competing clients.







     BBDO Worldwide, DDB Needham Worldwide,  TBWA International,  the DAS Group,
Goodby,  Silverstein & Partners and  Altschiller  & Company have sought,  and as
part of the  Agency's  operating  segments  will seek,  new  business by showing
potential clients examples of advertising  campaigns  produced and by explaining
the  variety of related  services  offered.  The Agency  competes  in the United
States and internationally  with a multitude of full service and special service
agencies.  In addition to the usual risks of the  advertising  agency  business,
international   operations  are  subject  to  the  risk  of  currency   exchange
fluctuations,  exchange  control  restrictions  and to actions  of  governmental
authorities.

Employees

     The  business  success of the Agency is, and will  continue  to be,  highly
dependent  upon the skills and creativity of its creative,  research,  media and
account personnel and their relationships with clients.  The Agency believes its
operating  groups have  established  reputations  for  creativity  and marketing
expertise  which  attract,  retain and stimulate  talented  personnel.  There is
substantial  competition among advertising  agencies for talented  personnel and
all  agencies  are  vulnerable  to  adverse  consequences  from  the loss of key
individuals. Employees are generally not under employment contracts and are free
to move to competitors of the Agency. The Company believes that its compensation
arrangements  for its key  employees,  which include stock  options,  restricted
stock  and  retirement  plans,  are  highly  competitive  with  those  of  other
advertising   agencies.   As  of  December  31,  1994,  the  Agency,   excluding
unconsolidated  companies,  employed  approximately  16,100  persons,  of  which
approximately  6,700 were employed in the United States and approximately  9,400
were employed in its international offices.

Government Regulation

     The advertising business is subject to government  regulation,  both within
and outside the United States.  In the United States,  federal,  state and local
governments  and their  agencies and various  consumer  groups have  directly or
indirectly  affected  or  attempted  to affect the scope,  content and manner of
presentation  of  advertising.  The  continued  activity  by  government  and by
consumer  groups  regarding  advertising  may cause  further  change in domestic
advertising  practices  in the  coming  years.  While the  Company  is unable to
estimate  the  effect of these  developments  on its U.S.  business,  management
believes the total volume of  advertising  in general media in the United States
will not be materially  reduced due to future  legislation or  regulation,  even
though the form,  content,  and manner of  presentation  of  advertising  may be
modified.  In addition,  the Company will continue to ensure that its management
and  operating  personnel  are  aware  of and  are  responsive  to the  possible
implications of such developments.

Item 2.   Properties

     Substantially  all of the Company's offices are located in leased premises.
The Company has continued a program to consolidate  leased premises.  Management
has obtained  subleases  for most of the premises  vacated.  Where  appropriate,
management has established  reserves for the difference  between the cost of the
leased premises that were vacated and anticipated sublease income.

Domestic

     The Company's  corporate  office occupies  approximately  25,000 sq. ft. of
space at 437 Madison  Avenue,  New York,  New York under a lease expiring in the
year 2010.

     BBDO  Worldwide  occupies  approximately  285,000  sq. ft. of space at 1285
Avenue of the Americas,  New York,  New York under a lease  expiring in the year
2012, which includes options for additional growth of the agency.

     DDB Needham Worldwide  occupies  approximately  162,000 sq. ft. of space at
437 Madison  Avenue,  New York, New York under leases expiring in the year 2010,
which include options for additional growth of the agency.

     TBWA International  occupies  approximately  61,000 sq. ft. of space at 292
Madison  Avenue,  New York,  New York under a lease  expiring  in the year 2005,
which includes options for additional growth of the agency.

     The Agency's other full-service offices in Atlanta, Beverly Hills, Chicago,
Dallas, Detroit,  Irvine, Los Angeles,  Mahwah,  Minneapolis,  Morton Grove, New
York, San Francisco,  Seattle and St. Louis and service offices at various other
locations  occupy  approximately  1,798,000  sq. ft. of space under  leases with
varying expiration dates.





International

     The Company's international  subsidiaries in Australia,  Austria,  Belgium,
Canada, China, the Czech Republic,  Denmark,  Finland,  France, Germany, Greece,
Hong Kong, Hungary,  Ireland,  Italy, Japan, Malaysia,  Mexico, the Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, the Philippines,  Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Singapore,
the Slovak  Republic,  South Africa,  Spain,  Sweden,  Taiwan,  Thailand and the
United Kingdom occupy premises under leases with various expiration dates.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

     The Agency has no material pending legal  proceedings,  other than ordinary
routine litigation incidental to its business.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     No matters  were  submitted to a vote of security  holders  during the last
quarter of 1994.

Executive Officers of the Company

     The individuals named below are Executive Officers of the Company:



     Dennis E.  Hewitt was  promoted to  Treasurer  of the  Companyicn  Jof BByO
Worldwide Inc. 56 James A. Cannon  ............  Vice Chairman,  Chief Financial
Offid to Controller of the Company in July 1992. Mr. Adams joined the Company in
July 1991 after ten years with  Coopers & Lybrand,  where he served as a general
practice manager from 1987 until joining the Company.

     Raymond E.  McGovern  has served as  Secretary  and General  Counsel of the
Company since September 1986,  having previously served as Secretary and General
Counsel of BBDO Worldwide Inc.  (then named BBDO  International,  Inc.) for more
than 10 years.

     Similar information with respect to the remaining Executive Officers of the
Company will be found in the Company's definitive proxy statement expected to be
filed April 7, 1995.

     The Executive  Officers of the Company are elected  annually  following the
Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of their respective employers.




                                    PART II


Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

     Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend History

     The Company's  Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock  Exchange under
the symbol  "OMC".  The table below shows the range of reported last sale prices
on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape for the Company's common stock for
the periods  indicated and the dividends  paid per share on the common stock for
such periods.

                                                                  Dividends Paid
                                                                   Per Share of
                                            High         Low       Common Stock
                                           -----         ---      --------------
   First Quarter .....................    47 1/2        38 3/8      $  .310
   Second Quarter ....................    47 1/4        38 1/4         .310
   Third Quarter .....................    46 1/4        37             .310
   Fourth Quarter ....................    46 1/2        41 1/2         .310

                                                                          
   First Quarter .....................    49 7/8        43 3/4         .310
   Second Quarter ....................    49 1/2        44 7/8         .310
   Third Quarter .....................    51 1/2        48             .310
   Fourth Quarter ....................    53 3/4        49             .310

     The  Company  is not aware of any  restrictions  on its  present  or future
ability  to  pay  dividends.  However,  in  connection  with  certain  borrowing
facilities  entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries  (see Note 7 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial  Statements),  the Company is subject to certain
restrictions  on its current ratio,  the ratio of net cash flow to  consolidated
indebtedness,  and  the  ratio  of  total  consolidated  indebtedness  to  total
consolidated capitalization.

     On January 23,  1995 the Board of  Directors  declared a regular  quarterly
dividend of $.31 per share of common stock,  payable April 4, 1995 to holders of
record on March 20, 1995.

     Approximate Number of Equity Security Holders

                                                        Approximate Number of
                                                           Record Holders
           Title of Class                                 on March 15, 1995
           --------------                               ---------------------

Common Stock, $.50 par value..........................         2,557
Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value .....................          None






Item 6. Selected Financial Data

     The following  table sets forth selected  financial data of the Company and
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated  financial  statements which
begin on page F-1.




Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

Results of Operations

     In  1994,  domestic  revenues  from  commissions  and fees  increased  11.4
percent.  The effect of acquisitions,  net of divestitures,  accounted for a 1.4
percent  increase.  The  remaining  10.0  percent  increase  was  due to net new
business gains and higher spending from existing clients.

     In 1993, domestic revenues from commissions and fees increased 9.0 percent.
The effect of  acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted for a 3.9 percent
increase.  The remaining 5.1 percent  increase was due to net new business gains
and higher spending from existing clients.

     In 1992,  domestic revenues  increased 2 percent,  primarily as a result of
net new business gains and higher spending from existing clients.

     In 1994,  international  revenues  increased  20.3  percent.  The effect of
acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for an 8.7 percent  increase in
international revenues. The weakening of the U.S. dollar increased international
revenues by 2.3 percent.  The remaining 9.3 percent  increase was due to net new
business gains and higher spending from existing clients.

     In 1993,  international  revenues increased 10.0 percent. The effect of the
acquisition of TBWA  International B.V. and several marketing services companies
in the  United  Kingdom,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for an 18.1  percent
increase in international revenues. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against
several  major  international  currencies  relevant  to the  Company's  non-U.S.
operations decreased revenues by 11.7 percent. The increase in revenues,  due to
net new  business  gains and higher  spending  from  existing  clients,  was 3.6
percent.






     In 1992,  international  revenues increased 25 percent, of which the effect
of the  acquisition  of McKim Baker  Lovick  BBDO in Canada and the  purchase of
additional shares in several  companies which were previously  affiliates of the
Company  accounted  for 14 percent.  The  remaining  increase was due to net new
business  gains and higher  spending from existing  clients.  Currency  exchange
rates did not significantly impact the revenues for the year.

     In 1994, worldwide operating expenses increased 15.2 percent. Acquisitions,
net of  divestitures  during the year,  accounted for a 5.4 percent  increase in
worldwide  operating  expenses.  The  weakening  of  the  U.S  dollar  increased
worldwide  operating expenses by 1.2 percent.  The remaining increase was caused
by normal salary increases and growth in  out-of-pocket  expenditures to service
the increased  revenue base. Net currency  exchange gains did not  significantly
impact operating expenses for the year.

     In 1993, worldwide operating expenses increased 8.8 percent.  Acquisitions,
net of divestitures  during the year,  accounted for an 11.7 percent increase in
worldwide  operating  expenses.  The  strengthening  of the U.S.  dollar against
several  international  currencies decreased worldwide operating expenses by 5.9
percent. The remaining increase was caused by normal salary increases and growth
in  out-of-pocket  expenditures  to service  the  increased  revenue  base.  Net
currency exchange gains did not significantly  impact operating expenses for the
year.

     In 1992, worldwide operating expenses increased 12.5 percent. Acquisitions,
net of divestitures during the year,  accounted for 5.0 percent of the increase.
The special  charge  accounted  for 0.5 percent of the  increase.  The remaining
increase  was caused by normal  salary  increases  and  growth in  out-of-pocket
expenditures to service the increased  revenue base. Net currency exchange gains
did not significantly impact total operating expenses for the year.

     Interest expense in 1994 decreased by $6.4 million.  This decrease reflects
lower average borrowings and interest rates on borrowings,  primarily due to the
conversion of the Company's  6.5%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures in July
1994 and the full year effect of the  conversion of the Company's 7% Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures in October 1993. Interest and dividend income decreased
by $2.7 million in 1994.  This decrease was primarily due to lower average funds
invested during the year and declining interest rates in certain countries.

     Interest  expense in 1993 was  comparable  to 1992.  Interest  and dividend
income  decreased in 1993 by $2.2  million.  This  decrease was primarily due to
lower average amounts of cash and marketable securities invested during the year
and lower average interest rates on amounts invested.

     Interest  expense in 1992 was  comparable  to 1991.  Interest  and dividend
income  decreased by $1.4 million in 1992.  This  decrease was  primarily due to
lower average funds  invested  during the year and declining  interest  rates in
certain countries.

     In 1994,  the  effective tax rate  decreased to 40.9 percent.  The decrease
reflects a lower  international  effective  tax rate  primarily  caused by fewer
international  operating  losses with no associated tax benefit and tax planning
strategies implemented in certain non-U.S. countries.

     In 1993,  the effective tax rate  decreased to 42.0 percent.  This decrease
primarily  reflects a lower  international  effective  tax rate  caused by fewer
international operating losses with no associated tax benefit,  partially offset
by an increased domestic federal tax rate.

     In 1992,  the effective tax rate of 43.6 percent was comparable to the 1991
effective tax rate of 44 percent.

     In 1994,  consolidated net income before the change in accounting principle
increased  by 26.7  percent.  This  increase  was the result of revenue  growth,
margin  improvement  and an increase in equity  income,  partially  offset by an
increase in minority  interest  expense.  Operating  margin,  which excludes net
interest  expense,  increased to 11.7 percent in 1994 from 11.2 percent in 1993.
This  increase was the result of greater  growth in  commission  and fee revenue
than the  growth in  operating  expenses.  The  increase  in equity  income  was
primarily due to the acquisition of certain minority  interests and improved net
income at  companies  which are less than 50  percent  owned.  The  increase  in
minority  interest  expense was primarily  due to greater  earnings by companies
where minority interests exist and the additional  minority interests  resulting
from  acquisitions.  In 1994, the  incremental  impact of  divestitures,  net of
acquisitions,  accounted for a 1.7 percent  decrease in consolidated net income,
while the weakening of the U.S dollar against several  international  currencies
increased consolidated net income by 1.1 percent.






     In 1993,  consolidated net income increased 23.2 percent.  This increase is
the result of revenue growth,  margin improvement,  an increase in equity income
and a decrease in minority interest expense.  Operating margin increased to 11.2
percent  in 1993 from 10.6  percent  in 1992.  This  increase  was the result of
greater  growth in  commission  and fee  revenue  than the  growth in  operating
expenses. The increase in equity income was the result of improved net income at
companies  which  are less than 50  percent  owned.  The  decrease  in  minority
interest  expense  was  primarily  due to the  acquisition  of certain  minority
interests in 1993 and lower  earnings by companies in which  minority  interests
exist. In 1993, the incremental  impact of  acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,
accounted for 0.8 percent of the increase in consolidated net income,  while the
strengthening  of the  U.S.  dollar  against  several  international  currencies
decreased consolidated net income by 5.7 percent.

     Consolidated net income increased 21 percent in 1992. This increase was the
result of revenue growth and margin  improvement.  Operating  margin,  after the
first quarter special charge discussed below,  decreased to 10.6 percent in 1992
from 10.9 percent in 1991.  This  decrease was the result of the special  charge
offset by greater  growth in  commissions  and fees than the growth in operating
expenses. In 1992, the incremental impact of acquisitions,  net of divestitures,
accounted for 6 percent of the increase in consolidated net income.

     At December 31, 1994, accounts receivable  increased by $238.4 million from
December 31,  1993.  This  increase was  primarily  due to  acquisitions  and an
increased volume of activity resulting from business growth.

     At December 31, 1994,  accounts  payable  increased by $367.7  million from
December 31, 1993. This increase was primarily due to acquisitions, an increased
volume of activity  resulting from business growth, and differences in the dates
on which  payments to media and other  suppliers  became due in 1994 compared to
1993.

     At December 31, 1992, the translation, into U.S. dollars, of the assets and
liabilities of the Company's  international  subsidiaries  decreased  cumulative
translation  adjustment  by $70.9  million  compared to December 31, 1991.  This
decrease was primarily the result of a stronger  U.S.  dollar  exchange rate for
certain  international  currencies  at December 31, 1992 as compared to December
31, 1991.

     Effective  January 1, 1994, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement
of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  112   "Employers'   Accounting  for
Postemployment  Benefits."  The  cumulative  after tax effect of the adoption of
this statement decreased net income by $28.0 million.

     In 1992, the Company adopted two new accounting  principles which had a net
favorable  cumulative  after tax effect of $3.8 million.  At the same time,  the
Company  recorded a special  charge to  provide  for  future  losses  related to
certain leased property. The combination of the favorable impact of the adoption
of the new accounting  principles and the after tax impact of the special charge
had no effect on 1992 consolidated net income.

     The Company's international  operations are subject to the risk of currency
exchange rate fluctuations.  This risk is generally limited to the net income of
the  operations  as the revenues and expenses of the  operations  are  generally
denominated in the same  currency.  When  economically  beneficial to do so, the
Company or its  international  operations  enter into  hedging  transactions  to
minimize the risk of adverse  currency  exchange  rate  fluctuations  on the net
income of the  operation.  The  Company's  major  international  markets are the
United Kingdom,  France, Germany, the Netherlands,  Spain, Italy and Canada. The
Company's operations are also subject to the risk of interest rate fluctuations.

     As part of managing the Company's  exposure to changes in currency exchange
and market  interest  rates,  the Company  periodically  enters into  derivative
financial   instruments   with  major  well  known  banks  acting  as  principal
counterparty.

     In order to  minimize  counterparty  risk,  the  Company  only  enters into
derivative  contracts with major well known banks that have credit ratings equal
to  or  better  than  the  Company's.   Additionally,  these  contracts  contain
provisions for net settlement. As such, the contracts settle based on the spread
between the currency rates and interest rates contained in the contracts and the
current market rates. This minimizes the risk of an insolvent counterparty being
unable to pay the Company  and, at the same time,  having the  creditors  of the
counterparty demanding the notional principal amount from the Company.

     The Company's  derivative  activities are limited in volume and confined to
risk management  activities  related to the Company's  worldwide  operations.  A
reporting  system  is in place  which  evaluates  the  impact  on the  Company's
earnings  resulting from changes in interest rates,  currency exchange rates and
other  relevant  market  risks.  This  system is  structured  to  enable  senior
management to initiate prompt remedial action, if appropriate.






     At  December  31,  1994,  the  Company  had  forward   exchange   contracts
outstanding with an aggregate notional principal amount of $346 million, most of
which were denominated in the Company's major  international  market currencies.
These  contracts   effectively   hedge  certain  of  the  Company's  assets  and
liabilities  which are recorded in a currency  different from that in which they
will settle. The terms of these contracts are generally three months or less.

     The Company had no other derivative  contracts  outstanding at December 31,
1994.

     At December 31, 1993,  the Company had entered into various cross  currency
interest rate swap  transactions.  The notional  principal  amount of these swap
transactions  totaled $70.6 million comprising  contracts  denominated in German
Deutsche Marks, French Francs, Australian Dollars and Spanish Pesetas. The swaps
were  principally  used  to  reduce  the  Company's  risk  related  to  currency
fluctuations and to convert the effective interest rate on borrowings of certain
international  subsidiaries  from fixed rates to a lower floating U.S.  interest
rate.  In  addition,  the  Company  had  one  U.S.  dollar  interest  rate  swap
outstanding  at  December  31,  1993  with a  notional  principal  amount of $50
million,  for the purpose of converting a portion of the floating U.S.  interest
rates mentioned  previously to fixed interest rates. These contracts were closed
out during 1994 for a gain of $2.4 million which is being  amortized into income
over the original term of the swap agreements.

     The current  economic  conditions  in the  Company's  major  markets  would
indicate  varying growth rates in advertising  expenditures in 1995. The Company
anticipates  relatively  favorable  growth  rates  in  its  major  international
markets.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

     Cash and cash equivalents increased $53 million during 1994 to $228 million
at December 31, 1994. The Company's positive net cash flow provided by operating
activities  was  enhanced  by an  improvement  in the  relationship  between the
collection of accounts  receivable  and the payment of  obligations to media and
other  suppliers.  After annual cash outlays for dividends paid to  shareholders
and minority  interests and the  repurchase  of the  Company's  common stock for
employee  programs,  the balance of the cash flow was used to fund acquisitions,
make capital expenditures and repay debt obligations.

     On June 1, 1994,  the Company  issued a Notice of  Redemption  for its 6.5%
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  due  2004.  Prior  to  the  July  27,1994
redemption date,  debenture  holders elected to convert all of their outstanding
debentures into common stock of the Company at a conversion  price of $28.00 per
common share.

     The Company maintains relationships with a number of banks worldwide, which
have extended unsecured  committed lines of credit in amounts sufficient to meet
the Company's cash needs.  At December 31, 1994, the Company had $370 million in
committed  lines  of  credit,  comprised  of a  $250  million  revolving  credit
agreement  expiring on June 30, 1997 and $120 million in unsecured credit lines,
principally  outside  of the United  States.  Of the $370  million in  committed
lines,  $32 million  were used at December  31,  1994.  Management  believes the
aggregate  lines of credit  available to the Company are adequate to support its
short-term cash requirements for dividends, capital expenditures and maintenance
of working capital.

     On January 4, 1995,  an  indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company
issued  Deutsche  Mark 200  million  Floating  Rate  Bonds  (approximately  $130
million), due January 5, 2000. The bonds bear interest at a per annum rate equal
to Deutsche Mark three month LIBOR plus 0.65%.

     The Company anticipates that the year end cash position,  together with the
future cash flows from  operations and funds  available  under  existing  credit
facilities  and  borrowings   will  be  adequate  to  meet  its  long-term  cash
requirements as presently contemplated.


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The  financial  statements  and  supplementary  data  required by this item
appear beginning on page F-1.


Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
        Financial Disclosure

     None.







                                    PART III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     Information with respect to the directors of the Company is incorporated by
reference to the Company's  definitive  proxy statement  expected to be filed by
April 7, 1995.  Information  regarding the Company's  executive  officers is set
forth in Part I of this Form 10-K.

Item 11.   Executive Compensation

     Incorporated  by  reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 7, 1995.

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     Incorporated  by  reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 7, 1995.

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     Incorporated  by  reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 7, 1995.





                                    PART IV


Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K



       All other  schedules are omitted  because they are not  applicable or the
         required information is shown in the consolidated  financial statements
         or notes thereto.

    3. Exhibits:

       (3)(i)   Articles of Incorporation.

                Incorporated by reference to the 1986 Annual Report on Form 10-K
                filed with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on March 31,
                1987.

          (ii)  By-laws.

                Incorporated by reference to the 1987 Annual Report on Form 10-K
                filed with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on March 31,
                1988.

       (4)      Instruments  Defining the Rights of Security Holders,  Including
                Indentures.

        4.1     Copy of Registrant's 4.5%/6.25% Step-Up Convertible Subordinated
                Debentures  due 2000,  filed as  Exhibit  4.3 to  Omnicom  Group
                Inc.'s  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended
                September 30, 1993, is incorporated herein by reference.

        4.2     Copy of Subscription  Agreement,  dated December 14, 1994 by and
                among the  Registrant,  BBDO Canada Inc. and Morgan Stanley GMBH
                and the other Managers  listed  therein,  in connection with the
                issuance  of DM  200,000,000  Floating  Rate  Bonds  of 1995 due
                January 5, 2000 of BBDO Canada Inc., including form of  Guaranty
                by Registrant.

        4.3     Paying Agency  Agreement  dated January 4, 1995 by and among the
                Registrant,   BBDO  Canada  Inc.  and  Morgan  Stanley  GMBH  in
                connection  with the issuance of DM  200,000,000  Floating  Rate
                Bonds of 1995 due January 5, 2000 of BBDO Canada Inc.






       (10)     Material Contracts.

                Management  Contracts,  Compensatory    Plans,    Contracts   or
                Arrangements.

        10.1    Standard Form of Severance  Compensation  Agreement incorporated
                by reference to BBDO International  Inc.'s Form S-1 Registration
                Statement  filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission on
                September 28, 1973, is incorporated herein by reference.

        10.2    Copy of Registrant's  1987 Stock Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.26 to
                Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year  ended  December  31,  1987,  is  incorporated   herein  by
                reference.

        10.3    Copy of  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement Plan dated May
                16, 1988,  filed as Exhibit 10.24 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988,
                is incorporated herein by reference.

        10.4    Copy of Employment Agreement dated March 20, 1989, between Peter
                I. Jones and Boase Massimi  Pollitt plc,  filed as Exhibit 10.22
                to  Omnicom  Group  Inc.'s  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the
                fiscal year ended December 31, 1989, is  incorporated  herein by
                reference.

        10.5    Standard  Form  of  the   Registrant's   1988  Executive  Salary
                Continuation  Plan Agreement,  filed as Exhibit 10.24 to Omnicom
                Group  Inc.'s  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                ended December 31, 1989, is incorporated herein by reference.

        10.6    Standard Form of the Registrant's Indemnification Agreement with
                members of  Registrant's  Board of  Directors,  filed as Exhibit
                10.25 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                fiscal year ended December 31, 1989, is  incorporated  herein by
                reference.

        10.7    Copy of DDB Needham  Worldwide Joint Savings Plan,  effective as
                of May 1, 1989,  filed as Exhibit  10.26 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s
                Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended  December
                31, 1989, is incorporated herein by reference.

        10.8    Amendment to Registrant's Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan, listed
                as Exhibit  10.3  above,  adopted  February  4,  1991,  filed as
                Exhibit 10.28 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K
                for the fiscal year ended  December  31, 1990,  is  incorporated
                herein by reference.

        10.9    Amendment to Registrant's  Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan listed
                as Exhibit  10.3 above,  adopted on  December 7, 1992,  filed as
                Exhibit 10.13 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K
                for the fiscal year ended  December  31, 1992,  is  incorporated
                herein by reference.

        10.10   Amendment to Registrant's  Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan listed
                as Exhibit 10.3 above, adopted on July 1, 1993, filed as Exhibit
                10.10 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                fiscal year ended  December  31,  1993,  incorporated  herein by
                reference.

        10.11   Copy of Severance  Agreement  dated July 6, 1993,  between Keith
                Reinhard and DDB Needham  Worldwide Inc., filed as Exhibit 10.11
                to  Omnicom  Group  Inc.'s  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the
                fiscal year ended  December  31,  1993,  incorporated  herein by
                reference.

        10.12   Copy of Employment Agreement dated May 26, 1993, between William
                G. Tragos and TBWA International B.V., filed as Exhibit 10.13 to
                Omnicom Group Inc.'s  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended December 31, 1993, incorporated herein by reference.

        10.13   Copy of Deferred Compensation  Agreement dated October 12, 1984,
                between William G. Tragos and TBWA  Advertising  Inc.,  filed as
                Exhibit 10.14 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K
                for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, incorporated herein
                by reference.







        10.14   Amendments to  Registrant's  1987 Stock Plan,  listed as Exhibit
                10.2 above, approved by the Registrant's shareholders on May 24,
                1994.

                Other Material Contracts.

        10.15   Copy  of   $250,000,000   Second  Amended  and  Restated  Credit
                Agreement,  dated as of July 15, 1994,  between  Omnicom Finance
                Inc.,  Swiss Bank  Corporation  and the  financial  institutions
                party  thereto,  filed as Exhibit  10.16 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s
                Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,
                1994, is incorporated herein by reference.

       (21)     Subsidiaries of the Registrant.........................     S-2

       (23)     Consents of Experts and Counsel.

        23.1    Consent of Independent Public Accountants..............    S-12

       (24)     Powers of Attorney from Bernard  Brochand,  Robert J. Callander,
                Leonard  S.  Coleman,  Jr.,  John R.  Purcell,  Gary L.  Roubos,
                Quentin I. Smith, Jr., Robin B. Smith, and Egon P. S. Zehnder.

       (27)     Financial Data Schedule (filed in electronic format only).

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

     No  reports on Form 8-K were  filed  during the fourth  quarter of the year
ended December 31, 1994.





                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                    OMNICOM GROUP INC.
Date: March 28, 1995
                                    By:        /s/ FRED J. MEYER
                                         -------------------------------
                                                   Fred J. Meyer
                                              Chief Financial Officer

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

     The  management of Omnicom Group Inc. is  responsible  for the integrity of
the financial  data reported by Omnicom Group and its  subsidiaries.  Management
uses its best judgment to ensure that the financial  statements  present fairly,
in all material  respects,  the consolidated  financial  position and results of
operations of Omnicom Group.  These  financial  statements have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

     The system of internal controls of Omnicom Group, augmented by a program of
internal  audits,  is designed to provide  reasonable  assurance that assets are
safeguarded  and records are  maintained  to  substantiate  the  preparation  of
accurate financial information.  Underlying this concept of reasonable assurance
is the premise that the cost of control  should not exceed the benefits  derived
therefrom.

     The  financial   statements   have  been  audited  by  independent   public
accountants.  Their report expresses an independent  informed judgment as to the
fairness of management's reported operating results and financial position. This
judgment is based on the procedures  described in the second  paragraph of their
report.

     The Audit Committee meets  periodically with  representatives  of financial
management, internal audit and the independent public accountants to assure that
each is properly discharging their responsibilities. In order to ensure complete
independence,  the Audit  Committee  communicates  directly with the independent
public  accountants,  internal  audit and  financial  management  to discuss the
results of their audits,  the adequacy of internal  accounting  controls and the
quality of financial reporting.




        /s/ BRUCE CRAWFORD                          /s/ FRED J. MEYER
--------------------------------------       -----------------------------------
            Bruce Crawford                              Fred J. Meyer
 President and Chief Executive Officer             Chief Financial Officer




                                      F-1



                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and
  Shareholders of Omnicom Group Inc.:

     We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of Omnicom
Group Inc. (a New York corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and
1993, and the related consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders' equity,
and cash flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,
1994.  These  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted  our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all  material  respects,  the  financial  position of Omnicom  Group Inc. and
subsidiaries  as of  December  31,  1994  and  1993,  and the  results  of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1994 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

     As discussed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January  1,  1994,   the  Company   changed  its  methods  of   accounting   for
postemployment  benefits and certain  investments in debt and equity securities.
Effective  January 1, 1992,  the Company  changed its methods of accounting  for
income taxes and postretirement benefits other than pensions.

     Our  audits  were made for the  purpose  of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule on page S-1 is presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is
not part of the basic financial statements.  This schedule has been subjected to
the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial  statements
and, in our opinion,  fairly states in all material  respects the financial data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic  financial  statements
taken as a whole.



                                                      ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP  
    
New York, New York
February 20, 1995


                                      F-2




The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of these statements.



                                      F-3





     The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral
part of these balance sheets.



                                      F-4



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

                      Three Years Ended December 31, 1994
                             (Dollars in Thousands)





     The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral
part of these statements.
 



                                      F-5


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


     The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral
part of these statements.



                                      F-6


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Recognition of Commission and Fee Revenue.  Substantially  all revenues are
derived from  commissions for placement of  advertisements  in various media and
from  fees  for  manpower  and for  production  of  advertisements.  Revenue  is
generally   recognized  when  billed.   Billings  are  generally  rendered  upon
presentation  date for media, when manpower is used, when costs are incurred for
radio and television production and when print production is completed.

     Principles  of  Consolidation.   The  accompanying  consolidated  financial
statements  include the  accounts of Omnicom  Group Inc.  and its  domestic  and
international   subsidiaries  (the  "Company").   All  significant  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated.

     Reclassifications.  Certain  prior year amounts have been  reclassified  to
conform with the 1994 presentation.

     Billable   Production.   Billable  production  orders  in  process  consist
principally  of  costs  incurred  in  producing   advertisements  and  marketing
communications  for clients.  Such amounts are generally  billed to clients when
costs are incurred for radio and television production and when print production
is completed.

     Treasury Stock.  The Company accounts for treasury share purchases at cost.
The reissuance of treasury shares is accounted for at the average cost. Gains or
losses on the  reissuance  of treasury  shares are  generally  accounted  for as
additional paid-in capital.

     Foreign  Currency  Translation.  The Company's  financial  statements  were
prepared  in  accordance  with  the   requirements  of  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting Standards No. 52, "Foreign Currency  Translation." Under this method,
net  transaction  gains of $4.0  million,  $5.0  million  and $8.1  million  are
included in 1994, 1993 and 1992 net income, respectively.

     Earnings  Per Common  Share.  Primary  earnings per share is based upon the
weighted   average  number  of  common  shares  and  common  share   equivalents
outstanding  during each year.  Fully diluted earnings per share is based on the
above and if dilutive,  adjusted  for the assumed  conversion  of the  Company's
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures and the assumed increase in net income for
the after tax interest cost of these debentures. For the year ended December 31,
1994 the 4.5%/6.25% Step-Up Convertible  Subordinated Debentures were assumed to
be converted for the full year; and the 6.5% Convertible Subordinated Debentures
were assumed to be converted  through  July 27, 1994,  when they were  converted
into common stock.  For the year ended December 31, 1993,  the 6.5%  Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures  were assumed to be converted for the full year; the 7%
Convertible Subordinated Debentures were assumed to be converted through October
8, 1993 when they were converted into common stock;  and the 4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  were assumed to be  converted  from their
September 1, 1993 issuance  date. For the year ended December 31, 1992, the 6.5%
and 7% Convertible  Subordinated Debentures were assumed to be converted for the
full year. The number of shares used in the computations were as follows:

                                         1994           1993             1992
                                         ----           ----             ----

Primary EPS computation ..........    34,369,200     30,607,900       28,320,400
Fully diluted EPS computation ....    38,949,600     37,563,500       35,332,400

     For purposes of computing  fully  diluted  earnings per share on net income
and the cumulative  effect of the change in accounting  principle,  for the year
ended December 31, 1994, the Company's Convertible  Subordinated Debentures were
not  reflected  in  the   computations   as  their  inclusion  would  have  been
anti-dilutive.

     Severance   Agreements.   Arrangements  with  certain  present  and  former
employees  provide  for  continuing  payments  for  periods up to 10 years after
cessation of their full-time  employment in consideration  for agreements by the
employees  not to  compete  and  to  render  consulting  services  in  the  post
employment  period.  Such  payments,  which are  determined,  subject to certain
conditions and limitations,  by earnings in subsequent periods,  are expensed in
such periods.


                                      F-7



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

     Depreciation  of Furniture  and  Equipment  and  Amortization  of Leasehold
Improvements.  Depreciation  charges are  computed on a  straight-line  basis or
declining  balance  method over the  estimated  useful  lives of  furniture  and
equipment,   up  to  10  years.   Leasehold  improvements  are  amortized  on  a
straight-line  basis  over the lesser of the terms of the  related  lease or the
useful life of these assets.

     Intangibles.  Intangibles represent acquisition costs in excess of the fair
value  of  tangible  net  assets  of  purchased  subsidiaries.  Intangibles  are
amortized on a straight-line  basis over periods not exceeding forty years. Each
year, the intangibles are written off if, and to the extent, they are determined
to be  impaired.  Intangibles  are  considered  to be  impaired  if  the  future
anticipated  undiscounted  income  of  the  subsidiary  is  less  than  the  net
unamortized cost of the intangibles.

     Deferred  Taxes.  Deferred tax  liabilities  and tax benefits relate to the
recognition  of certain  revenues and expenses in different  years for financial
statement and tax purposes.

     Cash Flows.  The Company's  cash  equivalents  are  primarily  comprised of
investments in short-term interest-bearing deposits and money market instruments
with maturity dates of three months or less.

     The following  supplemental  schedule  summarizes  the fair value of assets
acquired,  cash  paid,  common  shares  issued  and the  liabilities  assumed in
conjunction  with the  acquisition  of  equity  interests  in  subsidiaries  and
affiliates, for each of the three years ended December 31:

                                                     (Dollars in thousands)
                                                  1994        1993       1992
                                                  ----        ----       ----
Fair value of non-cash assets acquired ....    $265,865    $287,177    $173,974
Cash paid, net of cash acquired ...........    (150,660)    (80,577)    (59,651)
Common shares issued ......................     (13,035)    (21,906)      5,596
                                               --------    --------    --------
Liabilities assumed .......................    $102,170    $184,694    $119,919
                                               ========    ========    ========

     During  1994,  the Company  issued  3,571,233  shares of common  stock upon
conversion  of $100  million of its 6.5%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures.
During 1993, the Company issued 3,334,079 shares of common stock upon conversion
of $85.9 million of its 7% Convertible Subordinated Debentures.

     Concentration  of  Credit  Risk.  The  Company  provides   advertising  and
marketing  services  to a wide range of  clients  who  operate in many  industry
sectors around the world.  The Company  grants credit to all qualified  clients,
but does not believe it is exposed to any undue  concentration of credit risk to
any significant degree.

     Derivative Financial Instruments.  Gains and losses on derivative financial
instruments  which are hedges of existing  assets or liabilities are included in
the carrying amount of those assets or liabilities and are ultimately recognized
in income as part of those  carrying  amounts.  Interest  received  and/or  paid
arising from swap  agreements  which qualify as hedges are  recognized in income
when the interest is receivable  or payable.  Derivative  financial  instruments
which do not qualify as hedges are  revalued to the current  market rate and any
gains or losses are recorded in income in the current period.

2. Acquisitions

     During 1994 the Company made several  acquisitions  within the  advertising
industry whose  aggregate  cost, in cash or by issuance of the Company's  common
stock,  totaled $190.4 million for net assets,  which included intangible assets
of $221.5  million.  Due to the nature of the  advertising  industry,  companies
acquired  generally  have  minimal  tangible  net  assets.  The  majority of the
purchase price is paid for ongoing client  relationships and other  intangibles.
Included  in  both  figures  are  contingent  payments  related  to  prior  year
acquisitions totaling $32.2 million.

     Pro  forma  combined  results  of  operations  of  the  Company  as if  the
acquisitions  had occurred on January 1, 1993 do not materially  differ from the
reported  amounts in the  consolidated  statements of income for each of the two
years in the period ended December 31, 1994.

     Certain  acquisitions entered into in 1994 and prior years require payments
in future years if certain results are achieved.  Formulas for these  contingent
future  payments  differ from  acquisition  to  acquisition.  Contingent  future
payments are not expected to be material to the Company's  results of operations
or financial position.


                                      F-8



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

     In May 1993,  the  Company  completed  its  acquisition  of a third  agency
network,  TBWA International B.V. The acquisition was accounted for as a pooling
of interests and, accordingly,  the results of operations for TBWA International
B.V. have been included in these consolidated financial statements since January
1, 1993. Prior year consolidated  financial  statements were not restated as the
impact on such years was not material.

3. Bank Loans and Lines of Credit

     Bank  loans  generally  resulted  from  bank  overdrafts  of  international
subsidiaries  which  are  treated  as loans  pursuant  to bank  agreements.  The
weighted average interest rate on the borrowings  outstanding as of December 31,
1994 and 1993 was 9.1% and 6.5%. At December 31, 1994 and 1993,  the Company had
unsecured  committed lines of credit  aggregating $370 million and $359 million,
respectively.  The unused  portion  of credit  lines was $338  million  and $332
million at  December  31, 1994 and 1993,  respectively.  The lines of credit are
generally  extended  at the banks'  lending  rates to their most  credit  worthy
borrowers.  Material  compensating balances are not required within the terms of
these credit agreements.

     At December 31, 1993, the committed  lines of credit  included $200 million
under a two and one-half year revolving credit  agreement.  Due to the long term
nature  of this  credit  agreement,  borrowings  under  the  agreement  would be
classified as long-term  debt. As of July 15, 1994,  the $200 million  revolving
credit  agreement  was replaced by a $250  million  revolving  credit  agreement
expiring June 30, 1997.  Borrowings  under this credit  agreement  would also be
classified as long-term  debt.  There were no borrowings  under these  revolving
credit agreements at December 31, 1994 and 1993.

     These revolving credit agreements include a facility for issuing commercial
paper  backed by a bank letter of credit.  During the years ended  December  31,
1994,  1993 and 1992,  the  Company  issued  commercial  paper  with an  average
original  maturity  of 33,  32 and 31 days,  respectively.  The  Company  had no
commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992.
The maximum outstanding during the year was $230 million,  $194 million and $120
million, in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively. The gross amount of issuance and
redemption during the year was $1,587 million, $1,337 million and $1,012 million
in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

4. Employee Stock Plans

     Under the terms of the  Company's  1987 Stock Plan,  as amended  (the "1987
Plan"),  4,750,000  shares of  common  stock of the  Company  are  reserved  for
restricted stock awards and non-qualified  stock options to key employees of the
Company.

     Under the terms of the 1987  Plan,  the  option  price may not be less than
100% of the market value of the stock at the date of the grant.  Options  become
exercisable  30% on each of the first two  anniversary  dates of the grant  date
with the final 40% becoming  exercisable  three years from the grant date. 

     Under the 1987 Plan,  305,000,  285,000 and 242,500  non-qualified  options
were granted in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

     A summary of changes  in  outstanding  options  for the three  years  ended
December 31, 1994 is as follows:



                                      F-9



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

     Under the 1987 Plan,  314,580 shares,  337,200 shares and 314,775 shares of
restricted   stock  of  the  Company  were  awarded  in  1994,  1993  and  1992,
respectively.

     All restricted  shares granted under the 1987 Plan were sold at a price per
share  equal to their par value.  The  difference  between  par value and market
value  on the date of the  sale is  charged  to  shareholders'  equity  and then
amortized to expense over the period of  restriction.  Under the 1987 Plan,  the
restricted  shares become  transferable to the employee in 20% annual increments
provided the employee remains in the employ of the Company.

     Restricted  shares  may not be  sold,  transferred,  pledged  or  otherwise
encumbered until the restrictions lapse. Under most circumstances,  the employee
must  resell  the  shares to the  Company  at par value if the  employee  ceases
employment  prior to the end of the period of restriction.  A summary of changes
in outstanding shares of restricted stock for the three years ended December 31,
1994 is as follows:

                                                    Years Ended December 31,
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                 1994         1993        1992
                                                 ----         ----        ----
Beginning balance........................      740,436      629,752     619,024
  Amount granted.........................      314,580      337,200     314,775
  Amount vested..........................     (230,603)    (201,712)   (278,942)
  Amount forfeited.......................      (42,331)     (24,804)    (25,105)
                                               -------      -------     --------
Ending balance...........................      782,082      740,436     629,752
                                               =======      =======     =======


     The charge to operations in connection with these  restricted  stock awards
for the years ended  December 31, 1994,  1993 and 1992 amounted to $9.5 million,
$7.1 million and $6.0 million, respectively.

5. Segment Reporting

     The Company operates advertising agencies and offers its clients additional
marketing  services  and  specialty  advertising  through its  wholly-owned  and
partially-owned  businesses. A summary of the Company's operations by geographic
area as of December  31,  1994,  1993 and 1992,  and for the years then ended is
presented below:

                                                 (Dollars in Thousands)
                                         United
                                         States     International   Consolidated
                                       ---------    -------------   ------------
   Commissions and Fees.............. $  858,575    $  897,630       $1,756,205
   Operating Profit .................    108,482        96,116          204,598
   Net Income .......................     32,593        47,532           80,125
   Identifiable Assets...............  1,004,698     1,847,506        2,852,204

   Commissions and Fees.............. $  770,611    $  745,864       $1,516,475
   Operating Profit .................     92,095        77,104          169,199
   Net Income .......................     40,814        44,531           85,345
   Identifiable Assets...............    827,032     1,462,831        2,289,863

   Commissions and Fees.............. $  706,902    $  678,259       $1,385,161
   Operating Profit..................     70,558        75,816          146,374
   Net Income........................     33,223        36,075           69,298
   Identifiable Assets...............    675,508     1,276,442        1,951,950



                                      F-10



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

6. Investments in Affiliates

     The Company has  approximately 45 unconsolidated  affiliates  accounted for
under the equity  method.  The  equity  method is used when the  Company  has an
ownership  of less  than  50%  and  exercises  significant  influence  over  the
operating  and  financial  policies  of  the  affiliate.   The  following  table
summarizes   the  balance   sheets  and  income   statements  of  the  Company's
unconsolidated  affiliates,  primarily  in  Europe,  Australia  and Asia,  as of
December 31, 1994, 1993, 1992, and for the years then ended:

                                                (Dollars in Thousands)

                                           1994          1993             1992
                                           ----          ----             ----
Current assets.......................  $1,208,976      $308,741         $312,423
Non-current assets...................     146,899        73,772           64,901
Current liabilities..................   1,196,807       235,389          259,508
Non-current liabilities..............     162,328        29,596            8,302
Minority interests...................       9,699         1,149            1,110
Gross revenues.......................     568,171       290,814          288,416
Costs and expenses...................     451,688       238,039          243,661
Net income...........................      86,001        33,574           27,752


     The increase in the summarized  balance sheets and income statements of the
Company's  unconsolidated  affiliates  in  1994  is  due to  the  growth  of the
Company's  existing  equity  affiliates and the inclusion of Aegis Group plc, in
which the Company had acquired a minority interest.  The Company's equity in the
net income of these affiliates amounted to $18.3 million, $13.2 million and $9.6
million for 1994, 1993 and 1992,  respectively.  The Company's equity in the net
tangible assets of these affiliated  companies was approximately  $65.8 million,
$58.1  million  and  $56.2  million  at  December  31,  1994,   1993  and  1992,
respectively.  Included in the Company's investments in affiliates is the excess
of acquisition costs over the fair value of tangible net assets acquired.  These
acquisition costs are being amortized on a straight-line  basis over periods not
exceeding forty years.


7. Long-Term Debt

     Long-term  debt  outstanding  as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 consisted of
the following:




                                      F-11



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

     During the third  quarter  of 1993,  the  Company  issued  $143,750,000  of
4.5%/6.25% Step-Up Convertible Subordinated Debentures with a scheduled maturity
in 2000.  The average annual  interest rate through the year 2000 is 5.42%.  The
debentures  are  convertible  into common  stock of the Company at a  conversion
price of  $54.88  per  share  subject  to  adjustment  in  certain  events.  The
debentures  are not  redeemable  prior to  September  1, 1996.  Thereafter,  the
Company may redeem the debentures initially at 102.984% and at decreasing prices
thereafter to 100% at maturity, in each case together with accrued interest. The
debentures  also may be repaid at the option of the  holder at anytime  prior to
September 1, 2000 if there is a Fundamental  Change, as defined in the debenture
agreement, at the repayment prices set forth in the debenture agreement, subject
to adjustment, together with accrued interest.

     On June 1, 1994,  the Company  issued a Notice of  Redemption  for its 6.5%
Convertible  Subordinated Debentures with a scheduled maturity in 2004. Prior to
the July 27, 1994 redemption date,  debenture  holders elected to convert all of
their  outstanding  debentures  into common stock of the Company at a conversion
price of $28.00 per common share.

     On August 9, 1993,  the Company  issued a Notice of  Redemption  for its 7%
Convertible  Subordinated Debentures with a scheduled maturity in 2013. Prior to
the October 1993 redemption  date,  debenture  holders elected to convert all of
their  outstanding  debentures  into common stock of the Company at a conversion
price of $25.75 per common share.

     In the third  quarter of 1989,  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company
issued  interest  bearing Loan Notes in connection with the acquisition of Boase
Massimi  Pollitt  plc.  The Loan  Notes  were  repaid on June 30,  1994 at their
nominal amount together with accrued interest.

     On July 15, 1994,  the Company  amended and restated the  revolving  credit
agreement  originally  entered into in 1988. This $250 million  revolving credit
agreement  is with a  consortium  of banks and  expires on June 30,  1997.  This
credit  agreement  includes a facility for issuing  commercial paper backed by a
bank  letter of credit.  The  agreement  contains  certain  financial  covenants
regarding  current  ratio,  ratio of total  consolidated  indebtedness  to total
consolidated   capitalization,   ratio   of  net  cash   flow  to   consolidated
indebtedness,  and  limitation on  investments  in and loans to  affiliates  and
unconsolidated subsidiaries.  At December 31, 1994 the Company was in compliance
with all of these covenants.

     Aggregate  maturities  of  long-term  debt in the next  five  years  are as
follows:

                                                          (Dollars in Thousands)

1995................................................            $  3,576
1996................................................              14,812
1997................................................               2,043
1998................................................                 650
1999................................................                 460


     On January 4, 1995,  an  indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company
issued  Deutsche  Mark 200  million  Floating  Rate  Bonds  (approximately  $130
million). The bonds are unsecured,  unsubordinated obligations of the issuer and
are  unconditionally and irrevocably  guaranteed by the Company.  The bonds bear
interest at a per annum rate equal to Deutsche Mark three month LIBOR plus 0.65%
and may be  redeemed  at the  option  of the  issuer on  January  5, 1997 or any
interest  payment date thereafter at their principal amount plus any accrued but
unpaid interest.  Unless redeemed  earlier,  the bonds will mature on January 5,
2000 and will be repaid at par.  The  proceeds  of this  issuance  were used for
general corporate purposes,  including the reduction of outstanding sundry notes
and loans payable to banks and other outstanding credit obligations.




                                      F-12


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

8. Income Taxes

      Income before income taxes and the provision for taxes on income consisted
of the amounts shown below:

                                                  Years Ended December 31,
                                                   (Dollars in Thousands)
                                             1994          1993          1992
                                             ----          ----          ----
Income before income taxes:
    Domestic .........................    $  85,992     $  65,571     $  47,535
    International ....................       95,764        77,053        74,761
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------
       Totals ........................    $ 181,756     $ 142,624     $ 122,296
                                          =========     =========     =========
Provision for taxes on income:
    Current:
       Federal .......................    $  30,645     $  16,428     $  17,143
       State and local ...............        8,445         6,531         6,215
       International .................       36,138        35,071        29,067
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------
                                             75,228        58,030        52,425
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------
    Deferred:
       Federal .......................       (4,922)        2,979        (3,702)
       State and local ...............       (1,285)          139        (1,375)
       International .................        5,316        (1,277)        5,920
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------
                                               (891)        1,841           843
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------
              Totals .................    $  74,337     $  59,871     $  53,268
                                          =========     =========     =========

     The Company's  effective income tax rate varied from the statutory  federal
income tax rate as a result of the following factors:

                                                    1994       1993       1992
                                                    ----       ----       ----
Statutory federal income tax rate ..............    35.0%      35.0%      34.0%
State and local taxes on income, net of
    federal income tax benefit .................     2.6        3.0        2.6
International subsidiaries' tax rate (less than)
     in excess of federal statutory rate .......    (0.8)       0.1        1.3
Losses of international subsidiaries
    without tax benefit ........................      --        0.2        1.0
Non-deductible amortization of goodwill ........     4.3        3.9        3.7
Other ..........................................    (0.2)      (0.2)       1.0
                                                    ----       ----       ----
Effective rate .................................    40.9%      42.0%      43.6%
                                                    ====       ====       ====

     The Company  accounts for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of
Statement of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 109  "Accounting  for Income
Taxes." Deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary  difference between
the  financial  reporting  basis  and tax  basis  of the  Company's  assets  and
liabilities.  Deferred tax benefits result  principally  from recording  certain
expenses in the financial  statements which are not currently deductible for tax
purposes.  Deferred tax liabilities  result  principally from expenses which are
currently  deductible  for tax  purposes,  but have not yet been expensed in the
financial statements.

     The Company has recorded  deferred tax benefits as of December 31, 1994 and
1993 of $56.6 million and $56.7 million, respectively.

     The Company has recorded  deferred tax  liabilities as of December 31, 1994
and 1993 of $20.5 million and $29.3 million, respectively.



                                      F-13




                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)


     Deferred  tax  benefits  (liabilities)  as of  December  31,  1994 and 1993
consisted of the amounts shown below (dollars in millions):

                                                           1994           1993
                                                           ----           ----
Acquisition liabilities ..........................        $12.1          $13.0
Lease reserves ...................................          2.0            5.0
Severance and compensation reserves ..............         22.7            8.7
Tax loss carryforwards ...........................          3.7            9.6
Foreign currency transactions ....................         (1.6)           0.5
Tax benefit leases ...............................         (0.8)          (4.5)
Amortization and depreciation ....................         (2.4)          (7.2)
Deductible intangibles ...........................         (3.6)          (2.1)
Other, net .......................................          4.0            4.4
                                                          -----          -----
                                                          $36.1          $27.4
                                                          =====          =====

     Net current  deferred  tax  benefits as of December  31, 1994 and 1993 were
$15.0  million  and $8.9  million,  respectively  and were  included  in prepaid
expenses and other current assets.  Net non-current  deferred tax benefits as of
December 31, 1994 and 1993 were $21.1 million and $18.5 million, respectively.

     In 1993,  legislation  was enacted which  increased the U.S.  statutory tax
rate from 34% to 35%. The effect of statutory  rate changes during 1994 and 1993
in federal, state, local and international jurisdictions was not material to net
income.  There were no material valuation  allowances  recognized as of December
31, 1994 and 1993.

     A provision has been made for additional  income and  withholding  taxes on
the  earnings  of  international   subsidiaries  and  affiliates  that  will  be
distributed.

9. Employee Retirement Plans

     The Company's  international and domestic  subsidiaries  provide retirement
benefits for their  employees  primarily  through profit sharing plans.  Company
contributions  to the plans,  which are determined by the boards of directors of
the subsidiaries,  have been in amounts up to 15% (the maximum amount deductible
for federal income tax purposes) of total eligible compensation of participating
employees.  Profit sharing expense amounted to $34.7 million,  $25.8 million and
$20.8 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

     Some of the Company's international  subsidiaries have pension plans. These
plans are not  required  to  report to  governmental  agencies  pursuant  to the
Employee  Retirement  Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).  Substantially all of
these plans are funded by fixed  premium  payments to  insurance  companies  who
undertake  legal  obligations to provide  specific  benefits to the  individuals
covered. Pension expense amounted to $2.6 million, $2.4 million and $2.7 million
in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

     Certain  subsidiaries of the Company have an executive  retirement  program
under which benefits will be paid to participants or their beneficiaries over 15
years from age 65 or death.  In addition,  other  subsidiaries  have  individual
deferred  compensation  arrangements  with certain  executives which provide for
payments over varying terms upon retirement, cessation of employment or death.

     Some of the  Company's  domestic  subsidiaries  provide life  insurance and
medical  benefits  for  retired  employees.  Eligibility  requirements  vary  by
subsidiary,  but generally include  attainment of a specified  combined age plus
years of service  factor.  Effective  January 1, 1992,  the Company  adopted the
provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 106  "Employers'
Accounting For Post Retirement  Benefits Other Than Pensions"  ("SFAS No. 106").
SFAS No. 106 requires  that the  expected  cost of post  retirement  benefits be
charged to expense during the years that the eligible  employees render service.
The expense  related to these  benefits was not  material to the 1994,  1993 and
1992 consolidated results of operations.


10. Commitments

     At December 31, 1994,  the Company was committed  under  operating  leases,
principally  for office  space.  Certain  leases are subject to rent reviews and
require payment of expenses under  escalation  clauses.  Rent expense was $138.0
million  in 1994,  $128.8  million  in 1993 and  $117.3  million  in 1992  after
reduction by rents received from  subleases of $10.2 million,  $10.0 million and



                                      F-14


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)


$14.1  million,   respectively.   Future  minimum  base  rents  under  terms  of
noncancellable  operating leases,  reduced by rents to be received from existing
noncancellable  subleases,  are as follows:  

                                               (Dollars in  Thousands)  
                                     Gross Rent     Sublease Income     Net Rent
                                     ----------     ---------------     --------
1995 .............................    $116,474         $ 10,080         $106,394
1996 .............................     107,973            8,577           99,396
1997 .............................      95,624            5,907           89,717
1998 .............................      82,107            4,628           77,479
1999 .............................      75,772            3,998           71,774
Thereafter .......................     417,994           13,716          404,278

     Where appropriate,  management has established  reserves for the difference
between the cost of leased premises that were vacated and  anticipated  sublease
income.

11. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

     During 1994 the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 119 "Disclosure  about  Derivative  Financial  Instruments and Fair Value of
Financial Instruments."

     The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair values
of the Company's financial instruments at December 31, 1994.

                                                          (Dollars in Thousands)
                                                             Carrying     Fair
                                                              Amount      Value
                                                             --------   --------
Cash, cash equivalents and investments available-for-sale    $256,634   $256,634
Long-term investments ....................................      5,532      5,532
Long-term debt ...........................................    190,914    192,352
Financial Commitments:
   Forward exchange contracts ............................       --          123
   Guarantees ............................................       --       10,065
   Letters of credit .....................................       --       19,879

      The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial  instruments  for which it is practicable to estimate
that value:

Cash equivalents and investments available-for-sale:

     Cash equivalents and investments  available-for-sale consist principally of
investments in short-term,  interest bearing instruments and are carried at fair
market value, which approximates cost.

Long-term investments:

     Included in deferred  charges and other  assets are  long-term  investments
carried at cost, which approximates estimated fair value. 

Long-term debt:

     The fair value of the Company's  convertible  subordinated  debenture issue
was determined by reference to quotations  available in markets where that issue
is traded.  These  quotations  primarily  reflect  the  conversion  value of the
debentures into the Company's  common stock.  These debentures are redeemable by
the  Company,  at prices  explained  in Note 7,  which are less than the  quoted
market  prices  used in  determining  the  fair  value.  The  fair  value of the
Company's  remaining  long-term  debt was  estimated  based on the current rates
offered to the Company for debt with the same remaining maturities.

Financial commitments:

     The estimated fair value of derivative  positions are based upon quotations
received  from  independent,  third  party  banks and  represent  the net amount
payable to terminate the position,  taking into  consideration  market rates and



                                      F-15



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

counterparty credit risk. The fair values of guarantees,  principally related to
affiliated  companies,  and  letters of credit were based upon the face value of
the underlying instruments.

12. Financial Instruments and Market Risk

     The Company  periodically  utilizes  derivative  financial  instruments  to
reduce certain market risks to which the Company is exposed.  These market risks
primarily  consist of the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on assets
and  liabilities  of non-U.S.  operations  and the impact of changes in interest
rates on debt.  The Company's  derivative  activities  are limited in volume and
confined  to  risk  management  activities.  Senior  management  at the  Company
actively  participate  in the  quantification,  monitoring  and  control  of all
significant  risks. A reporting system is in place which evaluates the impact on
the  Company's  earnings  resulting  from  changes in interest  rates,  currency
exchange  rates and other  relevant  market risks.  This system is structured to
enable senior  management to initiate  prompt remedial  action,  if appropriate.
Adequate  segregation of duties exists with regard to the  execution,  recording
and monitoring of derivative activities. Additionally, senior management reports
periodically  to the  Audit  Committee  of the  Board  of  Directors  concerning
derivative   activities.   Since  1993,  the  Audit  Committee  has  established
limitations  on derivative  activities.  These  limitations  have been  reviewed
annually,  most recently on March 23, 1995. The Audit Committee has reconfirmed,
for the year 1995, the limitations originally established in 1993.

     At December 31, 1994, the Company had no swap agreements outstanding.

     At December 31, 1993, the Company had cross currency swap  agreements and a
U.S. dollar interest rate swap agreement  outstanding  with commercial  banks as
follows:


The cross currency swap  agreements  were comprised of contracts  denominated in
German Deutsche Marks,  French Francs,  Australian  Dollars and Spanish Pesetas.
These contracts  effectively changed a portion of the Company's non-U.S.  dollar
denominated  debt to floating rate U.S. dollar  denominated  debt, which reduced
the Company's risk related to currency fluctuations and interest rates. The U.S.
dollar  interest  rate  swap  agreement  converted  a portion  of the  Company's
floating rate debt to a fixed rate. These agreements were closed out during 1994
for a gain of $2.4  million  which  is  being  amortized  into  income  over the
original term of the swap agreements.

     The Company enters into forward exchange  contracts to hedge certain assets
and  liabilities  which are recorded in a currency  different from that in which
they will settle.  Gains and losses on these positions are deferred and included
in the basis of the transaction  upon  settlement.  The terms of these contracts
are generally three months or less. The table below summarizes by major currency
the notional  principal  amounts of the  Company's  forward  exchange  contracts
outstanding  at December 31, 1994. The "buy" amounts  represent the U.S.  dollar
equivalent of commitments to purchase the  respective  currency,  and the "sell"
amounts  represent  the  U.S.  dollar  equivalent  of  commitments  to sell  the
respective currency.
                                                      (Dollars in thousands)
                                                     Notional Principal Amount
                                                   -----------------------------
     Currency                                      Company Buys    Company Sells
     --------                                      ------------    -------------
German Deutsche Mark .....................           $ 18,380           $ 82,509
French Franc .............................             61,345             22,364
U.S. Dollar ..............................             32,146             12,220
Dutch Guilder ............................             20,644             14,574
Spanish Peseta ...........................             12,653             17,831
Belgian Franc ............................             10,429              6,469
Canadian Dollar ..........................                765              7,970
Hong Kong Dollar .........................              4,021              4,017
Other ....................................              7,433              9,947
                                                     --------           --------
    Total ................................           $167,816           $177,901
                                                     ========           ========


                                      F-16



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

     The derivative financial instruments existing at December 31, 1994 and 1993
were  entered  into for the purpose of hedging  certain  specific  currency  and
interest rate risks.  As a result of these  financial  instruments,  the Company
reduced  financial  risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) which might
have  occurred if the markets moved  favorably.  In using  derivative  financial
instruments,  management  exchanged  the  risks  of the  financial  markets  for
counterparty  risks.  In order to minimize  counterparty  risk the Company  only
enters into contracts with major well known banks that have credit ratings equal
to  or  better  than  the  Company's.   Additionally,  these  contracts  contain
provisions for net settlement. As such, the contracts settle based on the spread
between the currency rates and interest rates contained in the contracts and the
current market rates. This minimizes the risk of an insolvent counterparty being
unable to pay the Company the notional principal amount owed to the Company and,
at the same  time,  having  the  creditors  of the  counterparty  demanding  the
notional principal amount from the Company.


13. Adoption of New Accounting Principles and Special Charge

     Effective  January 1, 1994,  the Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards  No.  112,   "Employers'   Accounting  for  Postemployment
Benefits" ("SFAS No. 112"). This Statement establishes  accounting standards for
employers who provide benefits to former or inactive  employees after employment
but  before  retirement  (referred  to  in  this  Statement  as  "postemployment
benefits"). Those benefits include, but are not limited to, salary continuation,
supplemental  unemployment  benefits,  severance  benefits,   disability-related
benefits,  job training and  counseling,  and  continuation  of benefits such as
health care  benefits and life  insurance  coverage.  The  cumulative  after tax
effect of the  adoption of SFAS No. 112 resulted in a reduction to net income of
$28.0 million.

     Effective  January 1, 1994, the Company also adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 115,  "Accounting for Certain  Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities" ("SFAS No. 115"). This Statement addresses the accounting and
reporting for investments in equity  securities  that have readily  determinable
fair values and for all investments in debt securities.  In compliance with SFAS
No.   115,   the   Company   classifies   these   investments   as   investments
available-for-sale.  At December 31, 1994, the Company's  investments  consisted
principally of time deposits with  financial  institutions.  These  investments,
with  scheduled  maturities of less than one year,  are valued at estimated fair
value, which approximates cost. These investments are generally redeemed at face
value upon maturity and, as such, gains or losses on disposition are immaterial.
There are no material  unrealized  holding  gains or losses as of  December  31,
1994.

     Effective  January 1, 1992,  the Company  adopted SFAS No. 106 and SFAS No.
109.  The  cumulative  after tax  effect  of the  adoption  of these  Statements
increased net income by $3.8 million, substantially all of which related to SFAS
No. 109. Due to the continued  weakening of the commercial real estate market in
certain domestic and international  locations and the  reorganization of certain
operations,  the Company  provided a special  charge of $6.7 million  pretax for
losses related to future lease costs.




                                      F-17


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)

      The  following  table  sets  forth a summary  of the  unaudited  quarterly
results of  operations  for the two years ended  December 31, 1994 and 1993,  in
thousands of dollars except for per share amounts.


                                      F-18



                                                                   Schedule VIII

                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                SCHEDULE VIII-VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                  For the Three Years Ended December 31, 1994


----------
(1) Net of  acquisition  date  balances in allowance  for  doubtful  accounts of
    companies  acquired of $1,330,  $4,581,  and $589 in 1994,  1993,  and 1992,
    respectively.



                                      S-1


