
10-K
FORM 10-K



================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                -----------------

                                    FORM 10-K
                                  ANNUAL REPORT
                     Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended: December 31, 1995     Commission File Number: 1-10551


                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            New York                                     13-1514814
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)


437 Madison Avenue, New York, NY                            10022
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 415-3600

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                        
                                                        Name of each exchange
      Title of each class                                on which registered
      -------------------                               ---------------------
 Common Stock, $.50 Par Value                          New York Stock Exchange

        Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No
                                          ---   --

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  registrant's   knowledge,  in  the  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

     At  March  15,  1996,   there  were  74,539,342   shares  of  Common  Stock
outstanding;   the   aggregate   market  value  of  the  voting  stock  held  by
nonaffiliates at March 15, 1996 was approximately $3,075,040,000.

     Indicate  the  number of  shares  outstanding  of each of the  registrant's
classes of stock, as of the latest practicable date.

            Class                                Outstanding at March 15, 1996
 Common Stock, $.50 Par Value                              74,539,342
Preferred Stock, $1.00 Par Value                              NONE

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain portions of the Registrant's  definitive proxy statement relating to its
annual  meeting  of  shareholders  scheduled  to be  held on May  20,  1996  are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.

================================================================================


                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.
                               ------------------

                       Index to Annual Report on Form 10-K

                          Year Ended December 31, 1995

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
PART I

Item 1.  Business ........................................................    1
Item 2.  Properties.......................................................    4
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings................................................    5
Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..............    5
Executive Officers of the Company.........................................    5

PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related 
          Stockholder Matters.............................................    6
Item 6.  Selected Financial Data..........................................    7
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations...........................................    7
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data......................   10
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure............................................   10

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...............   11
Item 11. Executive Compensation...........................................   11
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management...   11
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transaction....................   11

     The  information  called  for by Items 10, 11, 12 and 13, to the extent not
included  in  this  document,  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  such
information to be included under the captions  "Election of Directors,"  "Common
Stock  Ownership  of  Management,"  "Directors'   Compensation"  and  "Executive
Compensation"  in the Company's  definitive proxy statement which is expected to
be filed by April 8, 1996.

PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and 
          Reports on Form 8-K.............................................   12



                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

     Omnicom  Group  Inc.,  through  its  wholly and  partially-owned  companies
(hereinafter  collectively referred to as the "Company" or the "Omnicom Group"),
operates advertising agencies which plan, create,  produce and place advertising
in various media such as television, radio, newspaper and magazines. The Omnicom
Group offers its clients  such  additional  services as marketing  consultation,
consumer  market  research,  design and  production of  merchandising  and sales
promotion   programs  and   materials,   direct  mail   advertising,   corporate
identification, and public relations. The Omnicom Group offers these services to
clients worldwide on a local, national, pan-regional or global basis. Operations
cover the major  regions  of North  America,  the  United  Kingdom,  Continental
Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America,  the Far East and Australia.  In
1995 and 1994, 53% and 51%,  respectively,  of the Omnicom Group's billings came
from its non-U.S. operations.

     According to the unaudited  industry-wide  figures published in 1995 by the
trade  journal  Advertising  Age,  Omnicom  Group  Inc.  was ranked as the third
largest advertising agency group worldwide.

     The Omnicom Group operates as three separate,  independent agency networks:
The BBDO  Worldwide  Network,  the DDB  Needham  Worldwide  Network and the TBWA
International  Network.  The Omnicom Group also operates an independent  agency,
Goodby,  Silverstein  & Partners,  and certain  marketing  service and specialty
advertising companies through its Diversified Agency Services division ("DAS").

The BBDO Worldwide, DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International Networks

General

     BBDO Worldwide, DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International, by themselves
and through their respective subsidiaries and affiliates,  independently operate
advertising  agency  networks  worldwide.  Their  primary  business is to create
marketing  communications for their clients' goods and services across the total
spectrum of advertising and promotion media. Each of the agency networks has its
own clients and competes with each other in the same markets.

     The BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International  agencies
typically  assign to each client a group of  advertising  specialists  which may
include account  managers,  copywriters,  art directors and research,  media and
production personnel.  The account manager works with the client to establish an
overall advertising strategy for the client based on an analysis of the client's
products or services and its market. The group then creates and arranges for the
production of the  advertising  and/or  promotion and purchases  time,  space or
access in the relevant media in accordance with the client's budget.

BBDO Worldwide Network

     The BBDO  Worldwide  Network  operates in the United  States  through  BBDO
Worldwide which is headquartered in New York and has full-service offices in New
York, New York;  Los Angeles,  California;  Miami,  Florida;  Atlanta,  Georgia;
Chicago, Illinois; Detroit, Michigan; and Minneapolis, Minnesota.

      The BBDO Worldwide Network operates  internationally  through subsidiaries
in Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark,  Finland, France, Germany,
Greece,  Hong Kong, Italy,  Malaysia,  Mexico,  the Netherlands,  Peru,  Poland,
Portugal,  Puerto Rico, Russia,  Singapore,  Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, Thailand and
the United  Kingdom;  and through  affiliates  located in Argentina,  Australia,
Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Czech Republic,  Egypt, El Salvador,  Guatemala,
Honduras,  Hungary,  India, Israel,  Kuwait,  Lebanon,  New Zealand,  Nicaragua,
Norway,  Panama,  the Philippines,  Romania,  Saudi Arabia, the Slovak Republic,
Turkey,  the United Kingdom,  United Arab Emirates and Venezuela;  and through a
joint  venture  in  Japan.  The BBDO  Worldwide  Network  uses the  services  of
associate agencies in Colombia,  Dominican Republic,  Ecuador, Indonesia, Korea,
Pakistan and Uruguay.

DDB Needham Worldwide Network

     The DDB Needham Worldwide Network operates in the United States through The
DDB Needham Worldwide  Communications  Group, which is headquartered in New York
and has  full-service  offices in New York, New York;  Los Angeles,  California;
Dallas, Texas; Chicago,  Illinois; and Seattle,  Washington; and through Griffin
Bacal Inc. which is headquartered in New York.



     The  DDB  Needham  Worldwide  Network  operates   internationally   through
subsidiaries in Australia,  Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Colombia,
the Czech Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Finland,  France, Germany, Greece, Hong
Kong, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands,  New Zealand,  Norway, the
Philippines,  Poland, Portugal,  Romania, Singapore, the Slovak Republic, Spain,
Sweden, Taiwan,  Thailand and the United Kingdom; and through affiliates located
in Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Egypt, El Salvador, Germany, Guatemala,  Honduras,
India,  Korea,  Malaysia,  Panama,  Switzerland,  Turkey and Venezuela.  The DDB
Needham  Worldwide  Network uses the  services of  associate  agencies in Miami,
Florida and in Argentina, Bahrain, Belize, Bolivia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Indonesia,  Ireland, Israel, Kuwait, Lebanon, Nicaragua,  Paraguay, Peru, Puerto
Rico,  Russia,  Saudi  Arabia,  Slovenia,  South Africa,  Trinidad,  United Arab
Emirates  and  Uruguay.  Griffin  Bacal Inc.  operates  internationally  through
subsidiaries in Canada and the United Kingdom and through a branch in Mexico.

TBWA International Network

     The TBWA  International  Network  operates in North  America  through  TBWA
Chiat/Day which is headquartered in New York and has full-service offices in New
York, New York; Los Angeles,  California;  and St. Louis, Missouri, through Graf
Bertel  Buczek  in New  York,  New York and  through  TBWA  Chiat/Day  Canada in
Toronto,  Canada. The TBWA International  Network also operates in North America
through its affiliate, TBWA Chiat/Day Mexico.

     The   TBWA   International   Network   operates   internationally   through
subsidiaries in Australia, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, the
Netherlands,  Portugal,  South Africa, Spain and the United Kingdom; and through
affiliates  located  in  Argentina,   Chile,  Russia,   South  Africa,   Sweden,
Switzerland and Zimbabwe.  The TBWA  International  Network uses the services of
associate agencies in Austria,  the Czech Republic,  Hungary,  India, Japan, the
Middle East, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, and Turkey.

Diversified Agency Services

     DAS is the Omnicom  Group's  Marketing  Services and Specialty  Advertising
Division.  The DAS  mission is to provide  the best  customer  driven  marketing
communications  coordinated for the clients' benefit. Marketing services include
promotion, public relations, public affairs, direct/database marketing, branding
consultancy, graphic arts, sports marketing and merchandising/point-of-purchase;
and  specialty   advertising  includes  financial,   healthcare,   hispanic  and
recruitment advertising.

     DAS agencies  headquartered  in the United  States  include:  Harrison Star
Wiener & Beitler, Inc., Interbrand Schechter Inc., Kallir,  Philips, Ross, Inc.,
Lyons/Lavey/Nickel/Swift,  Inc.,  Merkley Newman Harty, Inc., RC Communications,
Inc.,  The Rodd Group and Shain  Colavito  Pensabene  Direct,  Inc. in New York;
Bernard Hodes  Advertising,  Inc.,  Doremus & Company,  Gavin Anderson & Company
Worldwide,  Inc.,  Porter/Novelli,  Inc. and Rapp Collins Worldwide Inc., all in
various cities and  headquartered in New York; Alcone Marketing Group in Irvine,
California and Mahwah,  New Jersey;  Baxter,  Gurian & Mazzei,  Inc., in Beverly
Hills, California;  Corbett HealthConnect Inc., in Chicago, Illinois;  Millsport
in Stamford,  Connecticut;  Optima  Direct Inc., in Vienna,  Virginia;  Ross Roy
Communications,  Inc.,  headquartered  in Bloomfield  Hills,  Michigan;  The GMR
Group,  Inc., in Fort  Washington,  Pennsylvania;  Thomas A. Schutz Co., Inc. in
Morton  Grove,  Illinois;  and  Rainoldi,  Kerzner  &  Radcliffe,  Inc.,  in San
Francisco, California.

     DAS  operates in the United  Kingdom  through  subsidiaries  which  include
Colour Solutions Ltd., Countrywide  Communications Group Ltd., CPM International
Ltd., European Political Consultancy Group Ltd., Granby Marketing Services Ltd.,
Interbrand (UK) Ltd.,  MacMillan  Davies  Advertising,  Ltd.,  MacMillan  Davies
Consultants,  Ltd., Paling Walters Targis Ltd.,  Premier Magazines Ltd., Product
Plus  International   Ltd.,   Specialist   Publications  (UK)  Ltd.,  The  Anvil
Consultancy Ltd. and WWAV Rapp Collins Group, Ltd.

     In addition, DAS operates  internationally with subsidiaries and affiliates
in Argentina,  Australia,  Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica,
France,  Germany,  Hong Kong, Ireland,  Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico,  Singapore,
South Africa and Spain.

Omnicom Group Inc.

      As the parent  company of BBDO  Worldwide,  DDB  Needham  Worldwide,  TBWA
International,  the DAS Group and Goodby,  Silverstein & Partners,  the Company,
through its wholly-owned  subsidiary Omnicom Management Inc.,  provides a common
financial and administrative base for the operating groups. The Company oversees



the  operations of each group  through  regular  meetings with their  respective
top-level management.  The Company sets operational goals for each of the groups
and  evaluates  performance  through  the  review  of  monthly  operational  and
financial  reports.  The Company provides its groups with  centralized  services
designed to coordinate  financial  reporting and controls,  real estate planning
and to focus corporate development objectives. The Company develops consolidated
services  for  its  agencies  and  their  clients.   For  example,  the  Company
participated in forming The Media Partnership,  which consolidates certain media
buying activities in Europe in order to obtain cost savings for clients.

Clients

     The clients of the Omnicom Group include  major  industrial,  financial and
service industry companies as well as smaller,  local clients. Among its largest
clients are Anheuser-Busch, Chrysler Corporation, Gillette, GTE, Hasbro, Henkel,
McDonald's, Nissan, PepsiCo., Seagrams, Visa and Volkswagen.

     The Omnicom Group's ten largest clients  accounted for approximately 21% of
1995 commissions and fees. The majority of these have been clients for more than
ten years. The Omnicom Group's largest client accounted for less than 6% of 1995
commissions and fees.

Revenues

     Commissions charged on media billings represent a significant proportion of
revenues  for the  Omnicom  Group.  Commission  rates  are not  uniform  and are
negotiated  with the client.  In accordance  with industry  practice,  the media
source  typically  bills  the  agency  for the time or space  purchased  and the
Omnicom Group bills its client for this amount plus the commission.  The Omnicom
Group  typically  requires  that payment for media  charges be received from the
client before the agency makes payments to the media. In some instances a member
of the Omnicom Group, like other advertising  agencies,  is at risk in the event
that its client is unable to pay the media.

     The  Omnicom  Group's  advertising   networks  also  generate  revenues  in
arranging for the production of advertisements and commercials.  Although,  as a
general matter, the Omnicom Group does not itself produce the advertisements and
commercials,  the Omnicom  Group's  creative and  production  staff  directs and
supervises  the production  company.  The agency bills the client for production
costs plus a commission. In some circumstances,  certain production work is done
by the Omnicom Group's personnel.

     In many cases, fees are generated in lieu of commissions. Several different
fee  arrangements  are used depending on client and individual  agency needs. In
general, fee charges relate to the cost of providing services plus a markup. The
DAS companies primarily charge fees for their various specialty services,  which
vary in type and scale,  depending  upon the service  rendered  and the client's
requirements.

     Advertising  agency revenues are dependent upon the marketing  requirements
of clients  and tend to be highest  in the  second  and fourth  quarters  of the
fiscal year.

Other Information

     For additional  information  concerning the  contribution of  international
operations  to  commissions  and fees and net  income see Note 5 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

     The Omnicom Group is  continuously  developing new methods of improving its
research capabilities, to analyze specific client requirements and to assess the
impact of  advertising.  In the United States,  approximately  193 people on the
Omnicom  Group's staff were employed in research during the year and the Omnicom
Group's domestic research expenditures approximated  $27,095,000.  Substantially
all such expenses were incurred in connection with contemporaneous  servicing of
clients.

     The  advertising  business is highly  competitive  and  accounts  may shift
agencies with  comparative  ease,  usually on 90 days' notice.  Clients may also
reduce  advertising  budgets at any time for any reason.  An agency's ability to
compete for new clients is affected in some instances by the policy,  which many
advertisers  follow,  of not permitting their agencies to represent  competitive
accounts in the same market. As a result,  increasing size may limit an agency's
potential  for  securing  certain new  clients.  In the vast  majority of cases,
however,  the separate,  independent  identities of BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham
Worldwide, TBWA International, the independent agencies within the DAS Group and
Goodby,  Silverstein  & Partners  have  enabled the Omnicom  Group to  represent
competing clients.



     BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham Worldwide,  TBWA International,  the DAS Group
and  Goodby,  Silverstein  & Partners  have  sought,  and as part of the Omnicom
Group's operating  segments will seek, new business by showing potential clients
examples of  advertising  campaigns  produced and by  explaining  the variety of
related  services  offered.  The Omnicom Group competes in the United States and
internationally  with a multitude of full service and special service  agencies.
In addition to the usual risks of the advertising agency business, international
operations are subject to the risk of currency exchange  fluctuations,  exchange
control restrictions and to actions of governmental authorities.

Employees

     The  business  success of the  Omnicom  Group is, and will  continue to be,
highly dependent upon the skills and creativity of its creative, research, media
and account personnel and their relationships with clients. The Company believes
its operating groups have  established  reputations for creativity and marketing
expertise  which  attract,  retain and stimulate  talented  personnel.  There is
substantial  competition among advertising  agencies for talented  personnel and
all  agencies  are  vulnerable  to  adverse  consequences  from  the loss of key
individuals. Employees are generally not under employment contracts and are free
to move to  competitors  of the Omnicom  Group.  The Company  believes  that its
compensation  arrangements  for its key employees,  which include stock options,
restricted  stock and retirement  plans,  are highly  competitive  with those of
other  advertising  agencies.  As of  December  31,  1995,  the  Omnicom  Group,
excluding  unconsolidated  companies,  employed approximately 19,400 persons, of
which  approximately  8,500 were employed in the United States and approximately
10,900 were employed in its international offices.

Government Regulation

     The advertising business is subject to government  regulation,  both within
and outside the United States.  In the United States,  federal,  state and local
governments  and their  agencies and various  consumer  groups have  directly or
indirectly  affected  or  attempted  to affect the scope,  content and manner of
presentation  of  advertising.  The  continued  activity  by  government  and by
consumer  groups  regarding  advertising  may cause  further  change in domestic
advertising  practices  in the  coming  years.  While the  Company  is unable to
estimate  the  effect of these  developments  on its U.S.  business,  management
believes the total volume of  advertising  in general media in the United States
will not be materially  reduced due to future  legislation or  regulation,  even
though the form,  content,  and manner of  presentation  of  advertising  may be
modified.  In addition,  the Company will continue to ensure that its management
and  operating  personnel  are  aware  of and  are  responsive  to the  possible
implications of such developments.

Item 2.  Properties

     Substantially  all of the Company's offices are located in leased premises.
The  Company   actively   manages  its  obligations   and,  where   appropriate,
consolidates its leased premises.  Management has obtained subleases for most of
the premises vacated. Where appropriate, management has established reserves for
the  difference  between the cost of the leased  premises  that were vacated and
anticipated sublease income.

Domestic

     The Company's  corporate  office occupies  approximately  27,000 sq. ft. of
space at 437 Madison  Avenue,  New York,  New York under a lease expiring in the
year 2010.

     BBDO  Worldwide  occupies  approximately  285,000  sq. ft. of space at 1285
Avenue of the Americas,  New York,  New York under a lease  expiring in the year
2012, which includes options for additional growth of the agency.

     DDB Needham Worldwide  occupies  approximately  170,000 sq. ft. of space at
437 Madison  Avenue,  New York, New York under leases expiring in the year 2010,
which include options for additional growth of the agency.

     TBWA Chiat/Day occupies approximately 58,000 sq. ft. of space at 180 Maiden
Lane, New York, New York under a lease expiring in the year 2016, which includes
options for additional growth of the agency.

     Offices in Atlanta,  Beverly Hills, Chicago,  Dallas, Detroit,  Irvine, Los
Angeles, Mahwah, Minneapolis, Morton Grove, New York, San Francisco, Seattle and
St. Louis and at various other locations occupy approximately  2,309,000 sq. ft.
of space under leases with varying expiration dates.



 International

     The Company's international  subsidiaries in Australia,  Austria,  Belgium,
Canada, China, the Czech Republic,  Denmark,  Finland,  France, Germany, Greece,
Hong Kong, Hungary,  Ireland,  Italy, Japan, Malaysia,  Mexico, the Netherlands,
New Zealand,  Norway, the Philippines,  Portugal,  Puerto Rico,  Singapore,  the
Slovak Republic,  South Africa, Spain, Sweden,  Taiwan,  Thailand and the United
Kingdom occupy premises under leases with various expiration dates.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

     The Company has no material pending legal proceedings,  other than ordinary
routine litigation incidental to its business.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     A Special  Meeting of the  Shareholders of the Company was held on Tuesday,
November  28, 1995 to consider  and vote upon a proposal to approve an amendment
to the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation  increasing the number of
authorized  shares of Common Stock, par value $.50 per share, from 75,000,000 to
150,000,000  to allow the Company to issue  additional  shares from time to time
for stock splits, stock dividends and other corporate purposes. The proposal was
approved with 30,983,982  affirmative  votes being cast,  115,834 negative votes
being cast, and 59,237 abstentions.

     No other matters were  submitted to a vote of security  holders  during the
last quarter of 1995.

Executive Officers of the Company

     The  individuals  named below are  Executive  Officers of the Company  and,
except as indicated  below,  have held their current  positions  during the last
five years:



     John D. Wren was appointed  President of Omnicom Group in September,  1995.
Mr. Wren was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Diversified Agency Services in
May 1993. Mr. Wren had served as President of Diversified  Agency Services since
February  1992,  having  previously  served as its Executive  Vice President and
General Manager.

     Dennis E. Hewitt was promoted to Treasurer of the Company in January  1994.
Mr. Hewitt joined the Company in May 1988 as Assistant Treasurer.

     Dale A. Adams was promoted to Controller  of the Company in July 1992.  Mr.
Adams  joined the  Company in July 1991 after ten years with  Coopers & Lybrand,
where he served as a general  practice  manager  from  1987  until  joining  the
Company.

     Barry J. Wagner was promoted to Secretary & General  Counsel of the Company
in May 1995. Mr. Wagner was previously Assistant Secretary of the Company.

     Similar information with respect to the remaining Executive Officers of the
Company,  who are all  directors of the Company,  can be found in the  Company's
definitive proxy statement expected to be filed April 8, 1996.

     The Executive  Officers of the Company are elected  annually  following the
Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of their respective employers.



                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

      Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend History

     The Company's  Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock  Exchange under
the symbol  "OMC".  The table below shows the range of reported last sale prices
on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape for the Company's common stock for
the periods  indicated and the dividends  paid per share on the common stock for
such  periods.  All sales  prices and per share  amounts  have been  adjusted to
reflect a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend effective
December 15, 1995.


                                                                  Dividends Paid
                                                                   Per Share of
                                             High       Low        Common Stock
                                             ----       ----      --------------


          First Quarter..................  24 15/16     21 7/8       $.155
          Second Quarter.................  24 3/4       22 7/16       .155
          Third Quarter..................  25 3/4       24            .155
          Fourth Quarter.................  26 7/8       24 1/2        .155



          First Quarter..................  28 7/16      25             .15
          Second Quarter.................  30 13/16     27 1/16        .155
          Third Quarter..................  33           29 5/16        .175
          Fourth Quarter.................  37 1/4       31 3/16        .175

     The  Company  is not aware of any  restrictions  on its  present  or future
ability  to  pay  dividends.  However,  in  connection  with  certain  borrowing
facilities  entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries  (see Note 7 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial  Statements),  the Company is subject to certain
restrictions  on its current ratio,  the ratio of net cash flow to  consolidated
indebtedness, the ratio of total consolidated indebtedness to total consolidated
capitalization and on its ability to make investments in and loans to affiliates
and unconsolidated subsidiaries.

     On January 31,  1996 the Board of  Directors  declared a regular  quarterly
dividend of $.175 per share of common stock, payable April 3, 1996 to holders of
record on March 15, 1996.

      Approximate Number of Equity Security Holders

                                                          Approximate Number of
                                                              Record Holders
            Title of Class                                   on March 15, 1996
            --------------                                ---------------------
     Common Stock, $.50 par value......................           3,479
     Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value .................            None




 Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

     The following  table sets forth selected  financial data of the Company and
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated  financial  statements which
begin on page  F-1.  As  discussed  in the notes to the  consolidated  financial
statements,  during 1995 the Company completed certain  acquisitions  which were
accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting.  Accordingly,
the  information  set forth in the following table includes the results of these
companies for all periods presented.


Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Results of Operations

     In  1995,  domestic  revenues  from  commissions  and fees  increased  12.8
percent.  The effect of acquisitions,  net of divestitures,  accounted for a 1.5
percent  increase.  The  remaining  11.3  percent  increase  was  due to net new
business gains and higher spending from existing clients.

     In 1994, domestic revenues from commissions and fees increased 7.0 percent.
The effect of  acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted for a 1.2 percent
increase.  The remaining 5.8 percent  increase was due to net new business gains
and higher spending from existing clients.

     In 1993, domestic revenues from commissions and fees increased 5.3 percent.
The effect of  acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted for a 3.2 percent
increase.  The remaining 2.1 percent  increase was due to net new business gains
and higher spending from existing clients.

     In 1995,  international  revenues  increased  24.3  percent.  The effect of
acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for a 5.9  percent  increase in
international revenues. The weakening of the U.S. dollar increased international
revenues by 6.7 percent.  The remaining 11.7 percent increase was due to net new
business gains and higher spending from existing clients.

     In 1994,  international  revenues  increased  20.2  percent.  The effect of
acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for an 8.5 percent  increase in
international revenues. The weakening of the U.S. dollar increased international
revenues by 2.3 percent.  The remaining 9.4 percent  increase was due to net new
business gains and higher spending from existing clients.



     In 1993,  international  revenues increased 5.9 percent.  The effect of the
acquisition of TBWA  International B.V. and several marketing services companies
in  the  United  Kingdom,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for a 14.0  percent
increase in international revenues. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against
several  major  international  currencies  relevant  to the  Company's  non-U.S.
operations  decreased revenues by 11.1 percent.  The increase in revenues due to
net new  business  gains and  higher  spending  from  existing  clients  was 3.0
percent.

     In 1995, worldwide operating expenses increased 17.4 percent. Acquisitions,
net of  divestitures  during the year,  accounted for a 3.9 percent  increase in
worldwide  operating  expenses.  The  weakening  of  the  U.S  dollar  increased
worldwide operating expenses by 3.2 percent. The remaining 10.3 percent increase
was caused by normal salary increases and growth in  out-of-pocket  expenditures
to service  the  increased  revenue  base.  Net foreign  exchange  gains did not
significantly impact operating expenses for the year.

     In 1994, worldwide operating expenses increased 10.2 percent. Acquisitions,
net of  divestitures  during the year,  accounted for a 4.8 percent  increase in
worldwide  operating  expenses.  The  weakening  of  the  U.S  dollar  increased
worldwide operating expenses by 1.1 percent.  The remaining 4.3 percent increase
was caused by normal salary increases and growth in  out-of-pocket  expenditures
to service the increased  revenue base,  partially  offset by the elimination of
the  special  charge  recorded  in 1993.  Net  foreign  exchange  gains  did not
significantly impact operating expenses for the year.

     In 1993,  worldwide  operating expenses  increased 5.8 percent.  During the
year, the Company recorded a special charge of $22.7 million associated with the
restructuring of certain real estate operating  leases,  including the write-off
of fixed assets  abandoned in conjunction with lease  terminations.  The special
charge accounted for a 1.6 percent increase in operating expenses. Acquisitions,
net of divestitures  during the year,  accounted for an 8.5 percent  increase in
worldwide  operating  expenses.  The  strengthening  of the U.S.  dollar against
several  international  currencies decreased worldwide operating expenses by 5.0
percent. The remaining increase was caused by normal salary increases and growth
in out-of-pocket expenditures to service the increased revenue base. Net foreign
exchange gains did not significantly impact operating expenses for the year.

     Interest expense in 1995 increased $2.8 million,  reflecting higher average
borrowings  during the year.  Interest and dividend income  increased in 1995 by
$1.7 million.  This increase was  attributable to higher average amounts of cash
and marketable securities invested during the year.

     Interest expense in 1994 decreased by $6.6 million.  This decrease reflects
lower average  interest rates on borrowings,  primarily due to the conversion of
the  Company's 7%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures in October 1993 and the
conversion of the Company's  6.5%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures in July
1994.  Interest and  dividend  income  decreased  by $2.2 million in 1994.  This
decrease was  primarily due to lower  average  funds  available  for  investment
during the year and declining interest rates in certain countries.

     Interest  expense  in 1993  decreased  by $4.3  million,  reflecting  lower
average  borrowings  during the year.  Interest and dividend income decreased in
1993 by $3.1 million.  This decrease was primarily due to lower average  amounts
of cash and marketable securities invested during the year.

     In 1995,  the  effective tax rate  decreased to 40.1 percent.  The decrease
reflects a reduction in the effect of nondeductible  goodwill amortization and a
decrease in the effective rate of state and local taxes.

     In 1994,  the  effective tax rate  decreased to 41.2 percent.  The decrease
reflects  a  reduction  in losses of  domestic  and  international  subsidiaries
without tax benefit,  a reduction in the effective rate of state and local taxes
and a reduction in the effect of nondeductible goodwill amortization,  offset by
the elimination of nontaxable proceeds from life insurance policies.

     In 1993,  the  effective tax rate  increased to 48.1 percent.  The increase
reflects  increased losses of domestic  subsidiaries  without tax benefit and an
increase  in the  domestic  federal  tax rate,  partially  offset by  nontaxable
proceeds from life insurance  policies and a lower  international  effective tax
rate.

     In 1995,  consolidated  net income  increased 25.5 percent compared to 1994
consolidated  net income  before the adoption of SFAS 112. This increase was the
result of revenue growth, margin improvement,  and an increase in equity income,
partially offset by an increase in minority interest expense.  Operating margin,
which excludes net interest expense, increased to 12.0 percent in 1995 from 11.3
percent in 1994 as a result of greater growth in commission and fee revenue than
the growth in operating  expenses.  The increase in equity  income was primarily
due to increased  earnings of the  Company's  existing  equity  affiliates.  The
increase  in  minority  interest  expense  was  caused by higher  earnings  from



companies  in  which  minority   interests   exist.   In  1995,  the  impact  of
divestitures,  net  of  acquisitions,  resulted  in a 4.4  percent  decrease  in
consolidated net income,  while the weakening of the U.S. dollar against several
international currencies increased consolidated net income by 3.4 percent.

     In 1994,  consolidated net income before the adoption of SFAS 112 increased
by 70.0  percent.  This  increase  was the  result  of  revenue  growth,  margin
improvement,  an increase in equity  income and a reduction in the effective tax
rate. Operating margin,  which excludes net interest expense,  increased to 11.3
percent  in 1994  from 9.1  percent  in 1993 as a result  of  greater  growth in
commission and fee revenue than the growth in operating  expenses.  The increase
in equity income was primarily  due to earnings from new equity  affiliates  and
was also due to improved net income at companies  which are less than 50 percent
owned. In 1994, the impact of divestitures,  net of acquisitions,  resulted in a
2.3 percent decrease in consolidated net income, while the weakening of the U.S.
dollar against  several  international  currencies  increased  consolidated  net
income by 1.4 percent.

     In 1993, consolidated net income increased 9.9 percent compared to 1992 net
income before changes in accounting principles.  This increase was the result of
revenue growth, margin improvement,  an increase in equity income and a decrease
in minority interest expense.  Operating margin decreased to 9.1 percent in 1993
from 9.3  percent  in 1992 as a result of lesser  growth in  commission  and fee
revenue than the growth in operating expenses. The increase in equity income was
the result of improved  net income at  companies  which are less than 50 percent
owned.  The  decrease in minority  interest  expense  was  primarily  due to the
acquisition  of  certain  minority  interests  in 1993  and  lower  earnings  by
companies in which minority  interests exist. In 1993, the incremental impact of
acquisitions, net of divestitures,  accounted for 1.0 percent of the increase in
consolidated  net income,  while the  strengthening  of the U.S.  dollar against
several  international  currencies  decreased  consolidated  net  income  by 6.6
percent.

     At December 31, 1995,  accounts  receivable  net of allowances for doubtful
accounts,  increased by $290.7  million from  December 31, 1994. At December 31,
1995, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities increased by $222.9 million
and $89.3 million,  respectively,  from December 31, 1994.  These increases were
primarily due to an increased volume of activity  resulting from business growth
and  acquisitions  during  the  year  and,  in the  case  of  accounts  payable,
differences in the dates on which payments to media and other  suppliers  became
due in 1995 compared to 1994.

     Effective  January 1, 1994, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement
of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  112   "Employers'   Accounting  for
Postemployment  Benefits".  The  cumulative  after tax effect of the adoption of
this statement decreased net income by $28.0 million.

     The Company's international  operations are subject to the risk of currency
exchange rate fluctuations.  This risk is generally limited to the net income of
the  operations  as the revenues and expenses of the  operations  are  generally
denominated in the same  currency.  When  economically  beneficial to do so, the
Company or its  international  operations  enter into  hedging  transactions  to
minimize the risk of adverse  currency  exchange  rate  fluctuations  on the net
income of the  operation.  The  Company's  major  international  markets are the
United Kingdom, France, Germany, the Netherlands,  Spain, Italy, and Canada. The
Company's operations are also subject to the risk of interest rate fluctuations.

     As part of managing the Company's exposures to currency exchange and market
interest  rates,  the  Company  periodically  enters into  derivative  financial
instruments  with major well known banks  acting as principal  counterparty.  In
order to minimize  counterparty  risk,  the Company only enters into  derivative
contracts  with major well known  banks  that have  credit  ratings  equal to or
better than the Company's.  Additionally, these contracts contain provisions for
net  settlement.  As such, the contracts  settle based on the spread between the
currency  rates and interest  rates  contained in the  contracts and the current
market rates. This minimizes the risk of an insolvent  counterparty being unable
to  pay  the  Company  and,  at the  same  time,  having  the  creditors  of the
counterparty demanding the notional principal amount from the Company.

     The Company's  derivative  activities are limited in volume and confined to
risk management  activities  related to the Company's  worldwide  operations.  A
reporting  system  is in place  which  evaluates  the  impact  on the  Company's
earnings  resulting from changes in interest rates,  currency exchange rates and
other  relevant  market  risks.  This  system is  structured  to  enable  senior
management to initiate prompt remedial action, if appropriate.



     At December 31, 1995 and 1994, the Company had forward  exchange  contracts
outstanding with an aggregate notional principal amount of $325 million and $346
million,  respectively,  most of which were  denominated in the Company's  major
international market currencies.  These contracts predominantly hedge certain of
the  Company's  intercompany  receivables  and payables  which are recorded in a
currency  different  from  that in which  they will  settle.  The terms of these
contracts are generally three months or less.

     At December 31, 1995, the Company had executed interest rate swap contracts
with banks which will become effective during 1996. These contracts  consist of;
a $75 million notional  principal amount U.S. dollar fixed to floating rate swap
relating to a portion of the Company's  intercompany  interest cash flows; and a
Deutsche  Mark 76.6  million  notional  principal  amount  (approximately  $53.3
million at the December 31, 1995 exchange  rate) floating to fixed rate swap and
a $10 million notional principal amount U.S. dollar floating to fixed rate swap,
both of which will convert a portion of the  Company's  floating  rate debt to a
fixed rate.

     At  December  31,  1995 and  1994,  the  Company  had no  other  derivative
contracts outstanding.

     The Company anticipates  relatively  favorable growth rates in its domestic
and international markets.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

     Cash and cash  equivalents  increased  $72.2 million  during 1995 to $314.0
million at December 31, 1995.  The Company's  positive net cash flow provided by
operating  activities  was  maintained,   in  part,  by  a  continued  favorable
relationship  between the  collection of accounts  receivable and the payment of
obligations  to media  and  other  suppliers.  After  annual  cash  outlays  for
dividends paid to shareholders and minority  interests and the repurchase of the
Company's  common  stock for  employee  programs,  the balance of the cash flow,
together with the proceeds from issuance of debt  obligations,  was used to fund
acquisitions,  make capital  expenditures,  repay debt obligations and invest in
marketable securities.

     On January 4, 1995,  an  indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company
issued  Deutsche Mark 200 million  Floating Rate Bonds due January 5, 2000.  The
bonds bear interest at a per annum rate equal to Deutsche Mark three month LIBOR
plus 0.65%.

     On June 1,  1994,  the  Company  issued  a  Notice  of  Redemption  for the
outstanding  $100 million of its 6.5%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures due
2004. Prior to the July 27,1994  redemption date,  debenture  holders elected to
convert all of their outstanding  debentures into common stock of the Company at
a conversion price of $14.00 per common share.

     The Company maintains relationships with a number of banks worldwide, which
have extended unsecured  committed lines of credit in amounts sufficient to meet
the Company's cash needs.  At December 31, 1995, the Company had $374 million in
committed  lines of credit,  comprised of a $250 million,  three year  revolving
credit agreement and $124 million in unsecured credit lines, principally outside
of the United States.  Of the $374 million in committed  lines, $18 million were
used at December 31, 1995.  Management  believes the  aggregate  lines of credit
available  to  the  Company  are  adequate  to  support  its   short-term   cash
requirements  for dividends,  capital  expenditures  and  maintenance of working
capital.

     The Company anticipates that the year end cash position,  together with the
future cash flows from  operations and funds  available  under  existing  credit
facilities will be adequate to meet its long-term cash requirements as presently
contemplated.

     On March 1, 1996,  the Company  issued  Deutsche Mark 100 million  Floating
Rate Bonds (approximately $68 million). The bonds are unsecured,  unsubordinated
obligations  of the  Company  and bear  interest  at a per annum  rate  equal to
Deutsche  Mark three month LIBOR plus 0.375%.  The bonds will mature on March 1,
1999 and will be repaid at par. The proceeds of this  issuance  will be used for
general corporate  purposes,  including the reduction of outstanding  commercial
paper debt.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The  financial  statements  and  supplementary  data  required by this item
appear beginning on page F-1.

Item  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

     None.



                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     Information  with respect to the  directors  of the Company and  compliance
with Section 16 rules is incorporated  by reference to the Company's  definitive
proxy statement expected to be filed by April 8, 1996. Information regarding the
Company's executive officers is set forth in Part I of this Form 10-K.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

     Incorporated  by  reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 8, 1996.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     Incorporated  by  reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 8, 1996.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     Incorporated  by  reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 8, 1996.



                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on  Form 8-K

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
(a) 1.Financial Statements:

      Report of Management................................................  F-1
      Report of Independent Public Accountants............................  F-2
      Consolidated Statements of Income for the three years 
       ended December 31, 1995............................................  F-3
      Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1995 and 1994...........  F-4
      Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the three years
       ended December 31, 1995............................................  F-5
      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years
       ended December 31, 1995............................................  F-6
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..........................  F-7
      Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited).........................  F-19

    2.Financial Statement Schedules:
      Report of Independent Public Accountants with regard to the
       Consolidated Financial Statements of Chiat/Day Holdings, Inc.......  S-1
      Report of Independent Public Accountants with regard to the
       Consolidated Financial Statements of Ross Roy Communications, Inc..  S-2
      Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (for the three years
       ended December 31, 1995)..........................................   S-3
      All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable.

          3.Exhibits:  

          (3)(i)    Articles of  Incorporation  (as amended on November 28, 1995
                    and as restated for filing purposes).


          (ii)      By-laws. Incorporated by reference to the 1987 Annual Report
                    on  Form  10-K  filed  with  the   Securities  and  Exchange
                    Commission on March 31, 1988. 

          (4)       Instruments    Defining  the  Rights  of   Security Holders,
                    Including Indentures.

          4.1       Copy  of   Registrant's   4.5%/6.25%   Step-Up   Convertible
                    Subordinated  Debentures  due 2000,  filed as Exhibit 4.3 to
                    Omnicom Group Inc.'s  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    quarter ended September 30, 1993, is incorporated  herein by
                    reference.

          4.2       Copy of  Subscription  Agreement  dated December 14, 1994 by
                    and  among the  Registrant,  BBDO  Canada  Inc.  and  Morgan
                    Stanley  GmbH and the  other  Managers  listed  therein,  in
                    connection with the issuance of DM 200,000,000 Floating Rate
                    Bonds of 1995  due  January  5,  2000 of BBDO  Canada  Inc.,
                    including form of Guaranty by  Registrant,  filed as Exhibit
                    4.2 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                    the year ended December 31, 1994, is incorporated  herein by
                    reference.

          4.3       Paying Agency  Agreement  dated January 4, 1995 by and among
                    the Registrant,  BBDO Canada Inc. and Morgan Stanley GmbH in
                    connection with the issuance of DM 200,000,000 Floating Rate
                    Bonds of 1995 due January 5, 2000 of BBDO Canada Inc.  filed
                    as Exhibit 4.3 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form
                    10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1994,  is
                    incorporated herein by reference.



          4.4       Copy of  Subscription  Agreement  dated February 27, 1996 by
                    and among the Registrant,  Morgan Stanley Bank AG and Morgan
                    Stanley & Co.  International in connection with the issuance
                    of DM  100,000,000  Floating  Rate  Bonds of 1996 due  March
                    1,1999.
                    
          4.5       Paying Agency Agreement dated March 1, 1996 by and among the
                    Registrant,  Morgan Stanley Bank AG and Morgan Stanley & Co.
                    International   in  connection   with  the  issuance  of  DM
                    100,000,000 Floating Rate Bonds of 1996 due March 1, 1999.

          (10)      Material Contracts.

                    Management Contracts, Compensatory Plans, Contracts or 
                    Arrangements.

          10.1      Copy of Registrant's 1987 Stock Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.26
                    to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                    fiscal year ended December 31, 1987, is incorporated  herein
                    by reference.

          10.2      Amendments  to  Registrant's  1987  Stock  Plan,  listed  as
                    Exhibit   10.1   above,   approved   by   the   Registrant's
                    shareholders on May 24, 1994.

          10.3      Copy of  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement Plan dated
                    May 16, 1988, filed as Exhibit 10.24 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s
                    Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended
                    December 31, 1988, is incorporated herein by reference.

          10.4      Amendment to Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement  Plan,
                    listed as Exhibit  10.3  above,  adopted  February  4, 1991,
                    filed as Exhibit 10.28 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990, is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

          10.5      Amendment to  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement  Plan
                    listed as Exhibit  10.3 above,  adopted on December 7, 1992,
                    filed as Exhibit 10.13 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992, is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

          10.6      Amendment to  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement  Plan
                    listed as Exhibit 10.3 above, adopted on July 1, 1993, filed
                    as Exhibit  10.10 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report on
                    Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1993,
                    incorporated herein by reference.

          10.7      Standard  Form of the  Registrant's  1988  Executive  Salary
                    Continuation  Plan  Agreement,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.24 to
                    Omnicom  Group  Inc.'s  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the
                    fiscal year ended December 31, 1989, is incorporated  herein
                    by reference.

          10.8      Standard Form of the Registrant's  Indemnification Agreement
                    with members of  Registrant's  Board of Directors,  filed as
                    Exhibit  10.25 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form
                    10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1989,  is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

          10.9      Copy of DDB Needham Worldwide Joint Savings Plan,  effective
                    as of May 1, 1989,  filed as Exhibit  10.26 to Omnicom Group
                    Inc.'s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                    December 31, 1989, is incorporated herein by reference.

          10.10     Copy of  Severance  Agreement  dated July 6,  1993,  between
                    Keith Reinhard and The DDB Needham Worldwide  Communications
                    Group,  Inc.  (then  known as DDB Needham  Worldwide  Inc.),
                    filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December  31,  1993,
                    incorporated herein by reference.

          10.11     Copy of  Employment  Agreement  dated May 26, 1993,  between
                    William G.  Tragos  and TBWA  International  B.V.,  filed as
                    Exhibit  10.13 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form
                    10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended   December   31,   1993,
                    incorporated herein by reference.



          10.12     Copy of Deferred  Compensation  Agreement  dated October 12,
                    1984,  between William G. Tragos and TBWA Advertising  Inc.,
                    filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December  31,  1993,
                    incorporated herein by reference.

          10.13     Standard   Form   of   Severance    Compensation   Agreement
                    incorporated by reference to BBDO International  Inc.'s Form
                    S-1  Registration  Statement  filed with the  Securities and
                    Exchange  Commission on September 28, 1973, is  incorporated
                    herein by reference.

                    Other Material Contracts.

          10.14     Copy of  $250,000,000  Second  Amended and  Restated  Credit
                    Agreement,  dated  as of  July  15,  1994,  between  Omnicom
                    Finance  Inc.,  Swiss  Bank  Corporation  and the  financial
                    institutions  party  thereto,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.16  to
                    Omnicom Group Inc.'s  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    quarter  ended  June 30,  1994,  is  incorporated  herein by
                    reference.

          (21)      Subsidiaries of the Registrant........................  S-4

          (23)      Consents of Experts and Counsel.

           23.1     Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP........................  S-15

           23.2     Consent of Coopers & Lybrand LLP......................  S-16

           23.3     Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP......................  S-17

          (24)      Powers  of  Attorney  from  Bernard   Brochand,   Robert  J.
                    Callander,  James A. Cannon,  Leonard S. Coleman, Jr., Peter
                    I.  Jones,  John  R.  Purcell,  Keith  L.  Reinhard,   Allen
                    Rosenshine,  Gary L. Roubos, Quentin I. Smith, Jr., Robin B.
                    Smith, William G. Tragos and Egon P.S. Zehnder.

          (27)      Financial Data Schedule (filed in electronic format only).

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K:  

     No  reports on Form 8-K were  filed  during the fourth  quarter of the year
ended December 31, 1995.


                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             OMNICOM GROUP INC.
Date: March 25, 1996
                                             By:      /s/ FRED J. MEYER
                                                -------------------------------
                                                          Fred J. Meyer
                                                     Chief Financial Officer

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.








                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

     The  management of Omnicom Group Inc. is  responsible  for the integrity of
the financial  data reported by Omnicom Group and its  subsidiaries.  Management
uses its best judgment to ensure that the financial  statements  present fairly,
in all material  respects,  the consolidated  financial  position and results of
operations of Omnicom Group.  These  financial  statements have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

     The system of internal controls of Omnicom Group, augmented by a program of
internal  audits,  is designed to provide  reasonable  assurance that assets are
safeguarded  and records are  maintained  to  substantiate  the  preparation  of
accurate financial information.  Underlying this concept of reasonable assurance
is the premise that the cost of control  should not exceed the benefits  derived
therefrom.

     The  financial   statements   have  been  audited  by  independent   public
accountants.  Their report expresses an independent  informed judgment as to the
fairness of management's reported operating results and financial position. This
judgment is based on the procedures  described in the second  paragraph of their
report.

     The Audit Committee meets  periodically with  representatives  of financial
management, internal audit and the independent public accountants to assure that
each is properly discharging their responsibilities. In order to ensure complete
independence,  the Audit  Committee  communicates  directly with the independent
public  accountants,  internal  audit and  financial  management  to discuss the
results of their audits,  the adequacy of internal  accounting  controls and the
quality of financial reporting.


          BRUCE CRAWFORD                               FRED J. MEYER
- ----------------------------------------    ------------------------------------
          Bruce Crawford                               Fred J. Meyer
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer              Chief Financial Officer


                                      F-1



                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and
  Shareholders of Omnicom Group Inc.:

     We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of Omnicom
Group Inc. (a New York corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and
1994, and the related  consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders' equity
and cash flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,
1995.  These  financial  statements  and the schedule  referred to below are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits. Prior to
1995, we did not audit the financial statements of Chiat/Day Holdings,  Inc. and
Ross  Roy   Communications,   Inc.,   companies  acquired  during  1995  in  two
transactions  accounted  for as poolings of  interests,  as discussed in Note 2.
Such statements are included in the consolidated financial statements of Omnicom
Group Inc.  and  account for total  assets of 6% at December  31, 1994 and total
revenues  of 7% and 11%  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  1994  and  1993,
respectively,  of the consolidated  totals, after restatement to reflect certain
adjustments.  The financial statements of Chiat/Day Holdings,  Inc. and Ross Roy
Communications,  Inc. prior to those  adjustments were audited by other auditors
whose reports have been  furnished to us and our opinion,  insofar as it relates
to the amounts included for those entities,  is based solely upon the reports of
the other auditors.

     We conducted  our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We  believe  that our  audits  and the  reports  of  other  auditors  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  based on our audits and the reports of other auditors, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Omnicom Group Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1995 and 1994, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period  ended  December  31, 1995 in  conformity  with
generally accepted accounting principles.

     As discussed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 1994, the Company changed its method of accounting for postemployment
benefits.

     Our  audits  were made for the  purpose  of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule on page S-3 is presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is
not part of the basic financial statements.  This schedule has been subjected to
the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial  statements
and,  in our  opinion,  based on our audits and the  reports of other  auditors,
fairly  states in all material  respects the  financial  data required to be set
forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.




                                                           ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


New York, New York 
February 20, 1996 (except for Note 14
as to which the date is March 1, 1996)



                                      F-2



                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME


                                                     
                                                 

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of these statements.

                                      F-3




                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


                                   A S S E T S



The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of these balance sheets.

                                      F-4


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of these statements.


                                      F-5
   



                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of these statements.

                                      F-6

                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1. BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

      Business.  Omnicom  Group  Inc., through  its wholly  and  partially-owned
companies,  operates advertising agencies which plan, create,  produce and place
advertising in various media such as television, radio, newspaper and magazines.
Additional  services such as marketing  consultation,  consumer market research,
design  and  production  of  merchandising  and  sales  promotion  programs  and
materials,  direct  mail  advertising,   corporate  identification,  and  public
relations  are  offered  to  clients.  These  services  are  offered  to clients
worldwide on a local, national, pan-regional or global basis.

      Recognition of Commission and Fee Revenue.  Substantially all revenues are
derived from  commissions for placement of  advertisements  in various media and
from  fees  for  manpower  and for  production  of  advertisements.  Revenue  is
generally   recognized  when  billed.   Billings  are  generally  rendered  upon
presentation  date for media, when manpower is used, when costs are incurred for
radio and television production and when print production is completed.

      Principles  of  Consolidation.  The  accompanying  consolidated  financial
statements  include the  accounts of Omnicom  Group Inc.  and its  domestic  and
international   subsidiaries  (the  "Company").   All  significant  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated.

      Restatements  and  Reclassifications.  During 1995, the Company  completed
certain  acquisitions  which were  accounted  for under the pooling of interests
method  of  accounting,  as  discussed  in Note 2.  Accordingly,  the  Company's
consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements
have been  restated to include the  results of these  companies  for all periods
presented. On December 15, 1995, the Company completed a two-for-one stock split
in the form of a 100% stock dividend;  as such all prior year balances have been
restated to give  retroactive  effect to the split.  In addition,  certain prior
year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 1995 presentation.

      Billable  Production.   Billable  production  orders  in  process  consist
principally  of  costs  incurred  in  producing   advertisements  and  marketing
communications  for clients.  Such amounts are generally  billed to clients when
costs are incurred for radio and television production and when print production
is completed.

      Treasury Stock. The Company accounts for treasury share purchases at cost.
The reissuance of treasury shares is accounted for at the average cost. Gains or
losses on the  reissuance  of treasury  shares are  generally  accounted  for as
additional paid-in capital.

      Foreign  Currency  Translation.  The Company's  financial  statements were
prepared  in  accordance  with  the   requirements  of  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting Standards No. 52, "Foreign Currency  Translation." Under this method,
net transaction gains of $.4 million, $4.0 million and $4.4 million are included
in 1995, 1994 and 1993 net income, respectively.

      Earnings Per Common  Share.  Primary  earnings per share is based upon the
weighted   average  number  of  common  shares  and  common  share   equivalents
outstanding  during each year.  Fully diluted earnings per share is based on the
above and if dilutive,  adjusted  for the assumed  conversion  of the  Company's
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures and the assumed increase in net income for
the after tax interest cost of these debentures. For the year ended December 31,
1995 the 4.5%/6.25% Step-Up Convertible  Subordinated Debentures were assumed to
be  converted  for the full  year.  For the year  ended  December  31,  1994 the
4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  were  assumed  to be
converted for the full year; and the 6.5%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures
were assumed to be converted  through  July 27, 1994,  when they were  converted
into common stock.  For the year ended December 31, 1993,  the 6.5%  Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures  were assumed to be converted for the full year; the 7%
Convertible Subordinated Debentures were assumed to be converted through October
8, 1993 when they were converted into common stock;  and the 4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  were assumed to be  converted  from their
September 1, 1993 issuance date.  The number of shares used in the  computations
were as follows:
                                            1995          1994          1993
                                            ----          ----          ----
    Primary EPS computation ..........   74,375,300    70,764,800    63,827,900

    Fully diluted EPS computation ....   79,913,100    79,925,700    77,739,200

                                      F-7


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      For purposes of computing  fully diluted  earnings per share on net income
and the cumulative  effect of the change in accounting  principle,  for the year
ended December 31, 1994, the Company's Convertible  Subordinated Debentures were
not  reflected  in  the   computations   as  their  inclusion  would  have  been
anti-dilutive.

      Severance  Agreements.   Arrangements  with  certain  present  and  former
employees  provide  for  continuing  payments  for  periods up to 10 years after
cessation of their full-time  employment in consideration  for agreements by the
employees  not to  compete  and  to  render  consulting  services  in  the  post
employment  period.  Such  payments,  which are  determined,  subject to certain
conditions and limitations,  by earnings in subsequent periods,  are expensed in
such periods.

      Depreciation  of Furniture  and Equipment  and  Amortization  of Leasehold
Improvements.  Depreciation  charges are  computed on a  straight-line  basis or
declining  balance  method over the  estimated  useful  lives of  furniture  and
equipment,   up  to  10  years.   Leasehold  improvements  are  amortized  on  a
straight-line  basis  over the lesser of the terms of the  related  lease or the
useful life of these assets.

      Intangibles. Intangibles represent acquisition costs in excess of the fair
value of tangible net assets of purchased  subsidiaries.  The intangible  values
associated with the Company's  business consist  predominantly of two types; the
value  of the  worldwide  agency  networks,  and the  value  of  ongoing  client
relationships.  The Company's  worldwide agency networks have been operating for
an average of over sixty years and intangibles associated with enhancing network
value are  intended  to  enhance  the long term  value of the  networks.  Client
relationships in the advertising  industry are typically long term in nature and
the  Company's  largest  clients have on average been clients for  approximately
thirty  years.  As such,  intangibles  are  amortized on a  straight-line  basis
principally over a period of forty years. Each year, the intangibles are written
off if and to the extent they are  determined  to be impaired.  Intangibles  are
considered  to be impaired  if the future  anticipated  undiscounted  cash flows
arising from the use of the intangibles is less than the net unamortized cost of
the intangibles.

      Deferred  Taxes.  Deferred tax  liabilities and tax benefits relate to the
recognition  of certain  revenues and expenses in different  years for financial
statement and tax purposes.

      Cash Flows.  The Company's  cash  equivalents  are primarily  comprised of
investments in overnight  interest-bearing deposits and money market instruments
with original maturity dates of three months or less.

      The following  supplemental  schedule  summarizes the fair value of assets
acquired,  cash  paid,  common  shares  issued  and the  liabilities  assumed in
conjunction  with the  acquisition  of  equity  interests  in  subsidiaries  and
affiliates, for each of the three years ended December 31:

      During  1994,  the Company  issued  7,142,466  shares of common stock upon
conversion  of $100  million of its 6.5%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures.
During 1993, the Company issued 6,668,158 shares of common stock upon conversion
of $85.9 million of its 7% Convertible Subordinated Debentures.

      Concentration  of  Credit  Risk  The  Company  provides   advertising  and
marketing  services  to a wide range of  clients  who  operate in many  industry
sectors around the world.  The Company  grants credit to all qualified  clients,
but does not believe it is exposed to any undue  concentration of credit risk to
any significant degree.

      Derivative Financial Instruments. Derivative financial instruments consist
principally of forward exchange  contracts and interest rate swaps. In order for
derivative  financial  instruments to qualify for hedge accounting the following
criteria must be met: (a) the hedging  instrument must be designated as a hedge;
(b) the hedged exposure must be specifically identifiable and expose the Company

                                      F-8


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

to risk;  and (c) it must be highly  probable that a change in fair value of the
derivative  financial instrument and an opposite change in the fair value of the
hedged  exposure  will have a high degree of  correlation.  The  majority of the
Company's derivative activity relates to forward exchange contracts. The Company
executes these  contracts in the same currency as the hedged  exposure,  whereby
100%  correlation  is  achieved.   Gains  and  losses  on  derivative  financial
instruments  which are hedges of existing  assets or liabilities are included in
the carrying amount of those assets or liabilities and are ultimately recognized
in income as part of those  carrying  amounts.  Interest  received  and/or  paid
arising from swap  agreements  which qualify as hedges are  recognized in income
when the interest is receivable  or payable.  Derivative  financial  instruments
which do not qualify as hedges are  revalued to the current  market rate and any
gains or losses are recorded in income in the current period.

      Use of Estimates.  The  preparation of financial  statements in conformity
with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and
liabilities and disclosures of contingent  assets and liabilities at the date of
the  financial  statements  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.


2. ACQUISITIONS

      In  August  1995,  the  Company  completed  the  acquisitions  of Ross Roy
Communications  and Chiat/Day  Holdings.  Both  transactions  were accounted for
under the pooling of interests method of accounting.  Accordingly, the Company's
financial  statements  have been  restated  to include  the  results of Ross Roy
Communications  and  Chiat/Day  Holdings for all periods  presented.  A total of
2,556,646 shares were issued in connection with these acquisitions.

      In May 1993,  the Company  completed  its  acquisition  of a third  agency
network,  TBWA International.  The acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of
interests and,  accordingly,  the results of operations  for TBWA  International
have been included in these consolidated  financial  statements since January 1,
1993.

      During  1995 the  Company  made  several  other  acquisitions  within  the
advertising  industry  whose  aggregate  cost,  in  cash or by  issuance  of the
Company's  common stock,  totaled $125.2 million for net assets,  which included
intangible  assets  of $108.7  million.  Due to the  nature  of the  advertising
industry,  companies  acquired  generally have minimal tangible net assets.  The
majority of the purchase price is paid for ongoing client  relationships  and to
enhance the Company's worldwide agency networks and marketing service companies.
Included  in  both  figures  are  contingent  payments  related  to  prior  year
acquisitions totaling $45.0 million. Pro forma combined results of operations of
the  Company as if these  acquisitions  had  occurred  on January 1, 1994 do not
materially  differ from the reported amounts in the  consolidated  statements of
income for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 1995.

      Certain acquisitions entered into in 1995 and prior years require payments
in future years if certain results are achieved.  Formulas for these  contingent
future  payments  differ from  acquisition  to  acquisition.  Contingent  future
payments are not expected to be material to the Company's  results of operations
or financial position.


3. BANK LOANS AND LINES OF CREDIT

      Bank  loans   primarily   comprised  bank   overdrafts  of   international
subsidiaries  which  are  treated  as loans  pursuant  to bank  agreements.  The
weighted average interest rate on the borrowings  outstanding as of December 31,
1995 and 1994 was 6.5% and 9.0%,  respectively.  At December  31, 1995 and 1994,
the Company had unsecured committed lines of credit aggregating $374 million and
$390 million,  respectively. The unused portion of credit lines was $356 million
at both December 31, 1995 and 1994.  The lines of credit are generally  extended
at the banks'  lending  rates to their most credit  worthy  borrowers.  Material
compensating  balances  are not  required  within  the  terms  of  these  credit
agreements.

      At December 31, 1995 and 1994, the committed lines of credit included $250
million under a three year revolving  credit  agreement  expiring June 30, 1997.
Due to the long  term  nature of this  credit  agreement,  borrowings  under the
agreement would be classified as long-term debt.  There were no borrowings under
the revolving credit agreement at December 31, 1995 and 1994.

                                      F-9


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      The revolving credit agreement  includes a facility for issuing commercial
paper  backed by a bank letter of credit.  During the years ended  December  31,
1995,  1994 and 1993,  the  Company  issued  commercial  paper  with an  average
original  maturity  of 31,  33 and 32 days,  respectively.  The  Company  had no
commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993.
The maximum outstanding during the year was $210 million,  $230 million and $194
million, in 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively. The gross amount of issuance and
redemption during the year was $1,211 million, $1,587 million and $1,337 million
in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

4. EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS

      Under the terms of the  Company's  1987 Stock Plan,  as amended (the "1987
Plan"),  13,100,000 shares of common stock of the Company have been reserved for
restricted stock awards and non-qualified  stock options to key employees of the
Company.  The remaining number of such reserved shares was 4,083,000 at December
31, 1995.

      Under the terms of the 1987 Plan,  the  option  price may not be less than
100% of the market value of the stock at the date of the grant.  Options  become
exercisable  30% on each of the first two  anniversary  dates of the grant  date
with the final 40% becoming exercisable three years from the grant date.

      Under the 1987 Plan, 830,000,  610,000 and 570,000  non-qualified  options
were granted in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

      A summary of changes in  outstanding  options  for the three  years  ended
December 31, 1995 is as follows:



      Under the 1987 Plan, 612,168 shares,  629,160 shares and 674,400 shares of
restricted   stock  of  the  Company  were  awarded  in  1995,  1994  and  1993,
respectively.

      All restricted shares granted under the 1987 Plan were sold at a price per
share  equal to their par value.  The  difference  between  par value and market
value  on the date of the  sale is  charged  to  shareholders'  equity  and then
amortized to expense over the period of  restriction.  Under the 1987 Plan,  the
restricted  shares become  transferable to the employee in 20% annual increments
provided the employee remains in the employ of the Company.

                                      F-10


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      Restricted  shares  may not be sold,  transferred,  pledged  or  otherwise
encumbered until the restrictions lapse. Under most circumstances,  the employee
must  resell  the  shares to the  Company  at par value if the  employee  ceases
employment  prior to the end of the period of restriction.  A summary of changes
in outstanding shares of restricted stock for the three years ended December 31,
1995 is as follows:

                                               Years Ended December 31,

                                          1995            1994          1993
                                          ----            ----          ----
     Beginning balance...............   1,564,164      1,480,872      1,259,504

       Amount granted................     612,168        629,160        674,400

       Amount vested.................    (490,422)      (461,206)      (403,424)

       Amount forfeited..............     (38,910)       (84,662)       (49,608)
                                        ---------      ---------      ---------
     Ending balance..................   1,647,000      1,564,164      1,480,872
                                        =========      =========      =========


      The charge to operations in connection with these  restricted stock awards
for the years ended December 31, 1995,  1994 and 1993 amounted to $10.7 million,
$9.5 million and $7.1 million, respectively.

5. SEGMENT REPORTING

      The  Company  operates   advertising   agencies  and  offers  its  clients
additional marketing services and specialty advertising through its wholly-owned
and  partially-owned  businesses.  A  summary  of the  Company's  operations  by
geographic  area as of December 31, 1995,  1994 and 1993, and for the years then
ended is presented below:




                                      F-11


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

6. INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES

      The Company has in excess of 60  unconsolidated  affiliates  accounted for
under the equity  method.  The  equity  method is used when the  Company  has an
ownership  of less  than  50%  and  exercises  significant  influence  over  the
operating  and  financial  policies  of  the  affiliate.   The  following  table
summarizes   the  balance   sheets  and  income   statements  of  the  Company's
unconsolidated  affiliates,  primarily  in  Europe,  Australia  and Asia,  as of
December 31, 1995, 1994, 1993, and for the years then ended:

                                                     Dollars in Thousands)

                                              1995          1994          1993
                                              ----          ----          ----
           Current assets..............   $1,399,700     $1,208,976     $308,741

           Non-current assets..........      147,093        146,899       73,772

           Current liabilities.........    1,400,349      1,196,807      235,389

           Non-current liabilities.....      149,781        162,328       29,596

           Minority interests..........        8,015          9,699        1,149

           Gross revenues..............      702,639        568,171      290,814

           Costs and expenses..........      582,850        451,688      238,039

           Net income..................       79,262         86,001       33,574

      The increase in the summarized balance sheets and income statements of the
Company's unconsolidated  affiliates in 1995 and 1994 is due to the inclusion of
new  equity  affiliates  and  the  growth  of  the  Company's   existing  equity
affiliates.  The Company's equity in the net income of these affiliates amounted
to $20.8  million,  $18.3  million and $13.2  million  for 1995,  1994 and 1993,
respectively.  The  Company's  equity  in  the  net  tangible  assets  of  these
affiliated  companies was approximately  $76.7 million,  $65.8 million and $58.1
million at  December  31,  1995,  1994 and 1993,  respectively.  Included in the
Company's  investments in affiliates is the excess of acquisition costs over the
fair value of tangible net assets acquired.  These excess  acquisition costs are
being  amortized on a  straight-line  basis  principally  over a period of forty
years.


7. LONG-TERM DEBT

      Long-term  debt  outstanding as of December 31, 1995 and 1994 consisted of
the following:



                                      F-12


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      During the third  quarter of 1993,  the  Company  issued  $143,750,000  of
4.5%/6.25% Step-Up Convertible Subordinated Debentures with a scheduled maturity
in 2000.  The average annual  interest rate through the year 2000 is 5.42%.  The
debentures  are  convertible  into common  stock of the Company at a  conversion
price of  $27.44  per  share  subject  to  adjustment  in  certain  events.  The
debentures  are not  redeemable  prior to  September  1, 1996.  Thereafter,  the
Company may redeem the debentures initially at 102.984% and at decreasing prices
thereafter to 100% at maturity, in each case together with accrued interest. The
debentures  also may be repaid at the option of the  holder at anytime  prior to
September 1, 2000 if there is a Fundamental  Change, as defined in the debenture
agreement, at the repayment prices set forth in the debenture agreement, subject
to adjustment, together with accrued interest.

      On January 4, 1995,  an indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company
issued Deutsche Mark 200 million  Floating Rate Bonds.  The bonds are unsecured,
unsubordinated obligations of the issuer and are unconditionally and irrevocably
guaranteed  by the Company.  The bonds bear interest at a rate equal to Deutsche
Mark  three  month  LIBOR plus  0.65% and may be  redeemed  at the option of the
issuer on January  5, 1997 or any  interest  payment  date  thereafter  at their
principal amount plus any accrued but unpaid interest.  Unless redeemed earlier,
the bonds will mature on January 5, 2000 and will be repaid at par.

      On June 1, 1994,  the Company  issued a Notice of Redemption  for its 6.5%
Convertible  Subordinated Debentures with a scheduled maturity in 2004. Prior to
the July 27, 1994 redemption date,  debenture  holders elected to convert all of
their  outstanding  debentures  into common stock of the Company at a conversion
price of $14.00 per common share.

      On August 9, 1993,  the Company  issued a Notice of Redemption  for its 7%
Convertible  Subordinated Debentures with a scheduled maturity in 2013. Prior to
the October 1993 redemption  date,  debenture  holders elected to convert all of
their  outstanding  debentures  into common stock of the Company at a conversion
price of $12.875 per common share.

      On July 15, 1994,  the Company  amended and restated the revolving  credit
agreement  originally  entered into in 1988. This $250 million  revolving credit
agreement  is with a consortium  of banks  expiring  June 30, 1997.  This credit
agreement  includes a facility  for issuing  commercial  paper  backed by a bank
letter of credit. The agreement contains certain financial  covenants  regarding
current ratio,  ratio of total  consolidated  indebtedness to total consolidated
capitalization,  ratio  of net  cash  flow  to  consolidated  indebtedness,  and
limitations  on  investments  in and  loans  to  affiliates  and  unconsolidated
subsidiaries.  At December  31, 1995 the Company was in  compliance  with all of
these covenants.

      Aggregate  maturities  of  long-term  debt in the next  five  years are as
follows:

                                                          (Dollars in Thousands)

           1996.............................................       $2,934

           1997.............................................        2,939

           1998.............................................        1,418

           1999.............................................          478

           2000.............................................      283,269


                                      F-13


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

8. INCOME TAXES

      Income before income taxes and the provision for taxes on income consisted
of the amounts shown below:

                                                  Years Ended December 31,
                                                  (Dollars in Thousands)
                                           ----------------------------------
                                             1995         1994         1993
                                             ----         ----         ----
       Income before income taxes:
           Domestic.....................   $107,536      $90,064     $ 43,577
           International................    135,117       98,850       78,101
                                           --------     --------     --------
              Totals....................   $242,653     $188,914     $121,678
                                           ========     ========     ========

       Provision for taxes on income:
           Current:
              Federal...................   $ 29,143     $ 31,500     $ 15,495
              State and local...........      9,837        8,708        8,054
              International.............     57,463       38,855       35,407
                                           --------     --------     --------
                                             96,443       79,063       58,956
                                           --------     --------     --------
       Deferred:
            Federal.....................      2,089       (5,167)         667
            State and local.............     (1,481)      (1,285)         139
            International...............        335        5,316       (1,277)
                                           --------     --------     --------
                                                943       (1,136)        (471)
                                           --------     --------     --------
                   Totals...............   $ 97,386     $ 77,927     $ 58,485
                                           ========     ========     ========


      The Company's  effective income tax rate varied from the statutory federal
income tax rate as a result of the following factors:




      Deferred  income taxes are provided for the temporary  difference  between
the  financial  reporting  basis  and tax  basis  of the  Company's  assets  and
liabilities.  Deferred tax benefits result  principally  from recording  certain
expenses in the financial  statements which are not currently deductible for tax
purposes.  Deferred tax liabilities  result  principally from expenses which are
currently  deductible  for tax  purposes,  but have not yet been expensed in the
financial statements.

      The Company has recorded deferred tax benefits as of December 31, 1995 and
1994 of $125.1 million and $111.1 million, respectively,  related principally to
tax   deductible   intangibles,   leasehold   amortization,   restricted   stock
amortization, severance and compensation, leases and accrued expenses.

      The Company has recorded  deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 1995
and 1994 of $33.2 million and $27.9 million,  respectively,  related principally
to furniture and equipment depreciation and tax lease recognition.

                                      F-14


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      Deferred  tax  benefits  (liabilities)  as of  December  31, 1995 and 1994
consisted of the amounts shown below (dollars in millions):

                                                       1995          1994
                                                       ----          ----

        Deductible intangibles.....................    $37.9         $31.5

        Acquisition liabilities....................     16.1          12.1

        Lease reserves.............................      8.3           3.0

        Severance and compensation reserves........     28.8          24.7

        Tax loss carryforwards.....................      6.0           7.8

        Amortization and depreciation..............     (2.3)         (3.3)

        Other, net.................................     (2.9)          7.4
                                                       -----         -----
                                                       $91.9         $83.2
                                                       =====         =====

      Net current  deferred  tax  benefits as of December 31, 1995 and 1994 were
$21.7  million and $18.1  million,  respectively,  and were  included in prepaid
expenses and other current assets.  Net non-current  deferred tax benefits as of
December 31, 1995 and 1994 were $70.2 million and $65.1 million, respectively.

      In 1993,  legislation was enacted which  increased the U.S.  statutory tax
rate from 34% to 35%.  The effect of this rate change and other  statutory  rate
changes in various state, local and international jurisdictions was not material
to net income.

      A provision has been made for additional  income and withholding  taxes on
the  earnings  of  international   subsidiaries  and  affiliates  that  will  be
distributed.


9. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS

      The Company's  international and domestic  subsidiaries provide retirement
benefits for their  employees  primarily  through  defined  contribution  plans.
Company  contributions  to the  plans,  which are  determined  by the  boards of
directors  of the  subsidiaries,  have been in  amounts  up to 15% (the  maximum
amount   deductible   for  federal   income  tax  purposes)  of  total  eligible
compensation of  participating  employees.  Expense  associated with these plans
amounted to $41.7  million,  $36.6 million and $26.8  million in 1995,  1994 and
1993, respectively.

      The Company's pension plans are primarily  international.  These plans are
not  required  to report  to  governmental  agencies  pursuant  to the  Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Substantially all of these plans
are funded by fixed premium payments to insurance  companies who undertake legal
obligations to provide  specific  benefits to the individuals  covered.  Pension
expense  amounted to $4.4 million,  $0.8 million and $1.1 million in 1995,  1994
and 1993, respectively.

      Certain  subsidiaries  of the Company have executive  retirement  programs
under which benefits will be paid to participants or their beneficiaries over 15
years from age 65 or death.  In addition,  other  subsidiaries  have  individual
deferred  compensation  arrangements  with certain  executives which provide for
payments over varying terms upon retirement, cessation of employment or death.

      Some of the Company's  domestic  subsidiaries  provide life  insurance and
medical  benefits  for  retired  employees.  Eligibility  requirements  vary  by
subsidiary,  but generally include  attainment of a specified  combined age plus
years of service factor.  The expense related to these benefits was not material
to the 1995, 1994 and 1993 consolidated results of operations.

10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

      At December 31, 1995, the Company was committed  under  operating  leases,
principally  for office  space.  Certain  leases are subject to rent reviews and
require payment of expenses under  escalation  clauses.  Rent expense was $169.1
million  in 1995,  $152.6  million  in 1994 and  $149.7  million  in 1993  after
reduction by rents received from  subleases of $11.1 million,  $10.2 million and
$10.0  million,   respectively.   Future  minimum  base  rents  under  terms  of
noncancellable  operating leases,  reduced by rents to be received from existing
noncancellable subleases, are as follows:

                                      F-15


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

                                               (Dollars in Thousands)
                                       Gross Rent  Sublease Income    Net Rent
                                       ----------  ---------------    --------

         1996.........................   146,491        10,969         135,522
         1997.........................   130,992         8,462         122,530
         1998.........................   108,904         5,862         103,042
         1999.........................    94,412         4,800          89,612
         2000.........................    88,575         3,627          84,948
         Thereafter...................   503,788         9,458         494,330

      Where appropriate,  management has established reserves for the difference
between the cost of leased premises that were vacated and  anticipated  sublease
income.

      The Company is involved in various routine legal  proceedings  incident to
the ordinary  course of its business.  The Company  believes that the outcome of
all pending legal  proceedings  and unasserted  claims in the aggregate will not
have a  material  adverse  effect on its  results  of  operations,  consolidated
financial position or liquidity.

11. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

      The  following  table  presents the carrying  amounts and  estimated  fair
values of the Company's financial instruments at December 31, 1995 and 1994.

      The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial  instruments  for which it is practicable to estimate
that value:

Cash equivalents and investments available-for-sale:

      Cash equivalents and investments available-for-sale consist principally of
investments in short-term,  interest bearing instruments and are carried at fair
market value, which approximates cost.

Long-term investments:

      Included in deferred  charges and other assets are  long-term  investments
 carried at cost, which approximates estimated fair value.

Long-term debt:

      The fair value of the Company's convertible  subordinated  debenture issue
was determined by reference to quotations  available in markets where that issue
is traded.  These  quotations  primarily  reflect  the  conversion  value of the
debentures into the Company's  common stock.  These debentures are redeemable by
the  Company,  at prices  explained  in Note 7,  which are less than the  quoted
market prices used in determining the fair value.

      The  majority  of the  Company's  remaining  long-term  debt is  primarily
floating rate debt and consequently the carrying amount approximates fair value.

Financial Commitments:

      The estimated fair value of derivative positions are based upon quotations
received  from  independent,  third  party  banks and  represent  the net amount

                                      F-16


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

payable to terminate the position,  taking into  consideration  market rates and
counterparty  credit risk. The fair value of guarantees,  principally related to
affiliated  companies,  and  letters of credit were based upon the face value of
the underlying instruments.

12.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND MARKET RISK

      The Company utilizes  derivative  financial  instruments  predominantly to
reduce certain market risks to which the Company is exposed.  These market risks
primarily  consist of the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on assets
and  liabilities  of non-U.S.  operations  and the impact of changes in interest
rates on debt.  The Company's  derivative  activities  are limited in volume and
confined  to  risk  management  activities.  Senior  management  at the  Company
actively  participate  in the  quantification,  monitoring  and  control  of all
significant  risks. A reporting system is in place which evaluates the impact on
the  Company's  earnings  resulting  from  changes in interest  rates,  currency
exchange  rates and other  relevant  market risks.  This system is structured to
enable senior  management to initiate  prompt remedial  action,  if appropriate.
Adequate  segregation of duties exists with regard to the  execution,  recording
and monitoring of derivative activities. Additionally, senior management reports
periodically  to the  Audit  Committee  of the  Board  of  Directors  concerning
derivative   activities.   Since  1993,  the  Audit  Committee  has  established
limitations  on  derivative  activities.  These  limitations  have been reviewed
annually,  most recently on March 21, 1996. The Audit Committee has reconfirmed,
for the year 1996, the limitations originally established in 1993.

      At December 31, 1995 the following swap agreements were outstanding:



      The $75 million  swap relates to a portion of the  Company's  intercompany
interest  cash flows.  The DM 76.6 million  (approximately  $53.3 million at the
December 31, 1995 exchange rate) and the $10 million swap  agreements  convert a
portion of the Company's floating rate debt to a fixed rate.

      There were no swap agreements outstanding at December 31, 1994.

      The Company enters into forward exchange contracts  predominantly to hedge
intercompany receivables and payables which are recorded in a currency different
from that in which they will  settle.  Gains and losses on these  positions  are
deferred and included in the basis of the transaction upon settlement. The terms
of these contracts are generally three months or less. At December 31, 1995, the
aggregate amount of intercompany  receivables and payables subject to this hedge
program was $306  million.  The table below  summarizes  by major  currency  the
notional   principal  amounts  of  the  Company's  forward  exchange   contracts
outstanding  at December 31, 1995. The "buy" amounts  represent the U.S.  dollar
equivalent of commitments to purchase the  respective  currency,  and the "sell"
amounts  represent  the  U.S.  dollar  equivalent  of  commitments  to sell  the
respective currency.
                                                       (Dollars in thousands)
                                                     Notional Principal Amount
                                                   ----------------------------
          Currency                                 Company Buys   Company Sells
          --------                                 ------------   -------------

      French Franc.............................      $75,472         $43,283
      U.S. Dollar..............................        6,228          43,770
      German Mark..............................        3,394          39,063
      Hong Kong Dollar.........................        2,246          30,583
      Australian Dollar........................       11,247             --
      Spanish Peseta...........................        4,632           9,902
      Belgium Franc............................        9,583              81
      Dutch Guilder............................        8,463           3,292
      Greek Drachma............................          --            5,120
      Other....................................       12,549          16,367
                                                    --------        --------
             Total.............................     $133,814        $191,461
                                                    ========        ========

                                      F-17


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      The  derivative  financial  instruments  existing at December 31, 1995 and
1994 were entered into for the purpose of hedging certain specific  currency and
interest rate risks.  As a result of these  financial  instruments,  the Company
reduced  financial  risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) which might
have  occurred if the markets moved  favorably.  In using  derivative  financial
instruments,  management  exchanged  the  risks  of the  financial  markets  for
counterparty  risk.  In order to minimize  counterparty  risk the  Company  only
enters into contracts with major well known banks that have credit ratings equal
to  or  better  than  the  Company's.   Additionally,  these  contracts  contain
provisions for net settlement. As such, the contracts settle based on the spread
between the currency rates and interest rates contained in the contracts and the
current market rates. This minimizes the risk of an insolvent counterparty being
unable to pay the Company the notional principal amount owed to the Company and,
at the same  time,  having  the  creditors  of the  counterparty  demanding  the
notional principal amount from the Company.


13.  ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

      The Company intends to adopt SFAS No. 121,  "Accounting for the Impairment
of Long-Lived  Assets and for Long-Lived  Assets to be Disposed of" in 1996. The
Company does not anticipate that the effect of such adoption will be material to
the carrying value of such assets.

      The Company  intends to adopt SFAS No. 123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based
Compensation"  in 1996.  As permitted  by SFAS No. 123,  the Company  intends to
continue to apply the accounting  provisions of APB Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees"  and to make annual pro forma  disclosures of the
effect of adopting the fair value based method of accounting  for employee stock
options and similar instruments.

      Effective  January 1, 1994, the Company adopted SFAS No. 112,  "Employers'
Accounting for Postemployment  Benefits".  This statement establishes accounting
standards  for employers  who provide  benefits to former or inactive  employees
after  employment  but  before  retirement  (referred  to in this  statement  as
"postemployment  benefits").  Those  benefits  include,  but are not limited to,
salary continuation,  supplemental  unemployment  benefits,  severance benefits,
disability-related  benefits,  job training and counseling,  and continuation of
benefits  such  as  health  care  benefits  and  life  insurance  coverage.  The
cumulative  after tax  effect of the  adoption  of SFAS No.  112  resulted  in a
reduction to net income of $28 million.

      Effective  January  1,  1994,  the  Company  also  adopted  SFAS No.  115,
"Accounting  for  Certain  Investments  in Debt  and  Equity  Securities".  This
Statement  addresses the  accounting  and reporting  for  investments  in equity
securities that have readily determinable fair values and for all investments in
debt securities.  In compliance with SFAS No. 115, the Company  classifies these
investments  as  investments  available-for-sale.  At  December  31,  1995,  the
Company's  investments  consisted  principally  of time deposits with  financial
institutions.  These  investments,  with  scheduled  maturities of less than one
year,  are valued at  estimated  fair  value,  which  approximates  cost.  These
investments  are  generally  redeemed at face value upon  maturity and, as such,
gains or losses on disposition are immaterial.  There are no material unrealized
holding gains or losses as of December 31, 1995.


14. SUBSEQUENT EVENT

      On March 1, 1996,  the Company issued  Deutsche Mark 100 million  Floating
Rate Bonds (approximately $68 million). The bonds are unsecured,  unsubordinated
obligations  of the  Company  and bear  interest  at a per annum  rate  equal to
Deutsche  Mark three month LIBOR plus 0.375%.  The bonds will mature on March 1,
1999 and will be repaid at par. The proceeds of this  issuance  will be used for
general corporate  purposes,  including the reduction of outstanding  commercial
paper debt.

                                      F-18



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)

      The  following  table  sets  forth a summary  of the  unaudited  quarterly
results of  operations  for the two years ended  December 31, 1995 and 1994,  in
thousands of dollars except for per share amounts.  As discussed in the notes to
the consolidated financial statements, during 1995 the Company completed certain
acquisitions  which were accounted for under the pooling of interests  method of
accounting.  Accordingly,  the  information  set  forth in the  following  table
includes the results of these companies for all periods presented.  In addition,
information  set  forth  in the  following  table  has  been  restated  to  give
retroactive effect to a two-for-one stock split completed in December 1995.




                                      F-19


                         INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS' REPORT


To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
Chiat/Day Holdings, Inc.

      We have audited the  consolidated  balance  sheets of Chiat/Day  Holdings,
Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  as of  October  31,  1994  and  1993,  and the  related
consolidated statements of operations,  stockholders' equity (deficit), and cash
flows for the years then ended (not included herein). These financial statements
are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our  responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all  material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial  position of Chiat/Day
Holdings,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  as of  October  31,  1994 and 1993,  and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then
ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

      The  consolidated  financial  statements  have been prepared  assuming the
Company will continue as a going concern.  As discussed in Note 1, the Company's
debt under its Senior Note and Senior Subordinated Note totaling  $18,750,000 is
due in 1995, which combined with its working capital and stockholders'  deficits
at October 31, 1994,  raises  substantial  doubt about the Company's  ability to
continue as a going concern.  Management's plans as to this matter are discussed
in Note 1. The  financial  statements do not include any adjustments  that might
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.



                                                 COOPERS & LYBRAND LLP
Sherman Oaks, California
April 7, 1995

                                      S-1


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Ross Roy Communications, Inc.
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan

     We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Ross Roy Communications,
Inc.(formerly  known as Ross Roy Group,  Inc.) as of December 31, 1994,  and the
related  consolidated   statements  of  operations,   common  stock  subject  to
repurchase  obligations and  accumulated  deficit and cash flows for each of the
two years in the  period  ended  December  31,  1994 (not  presented  separately
herein).  These consolidated  financial statements are the responsibility of the
Corporation's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted  our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  such consolidated  financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects,  the financial position of the Corporation as of December
31, 1994 and 1993, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each
of the two years in the  period  ended  December  31,  1994 in  conformity  with
generally accepted accounting principles.



                                             DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Detroit, Michigan
March 9, 1995

                                      S-2


                                                                     Schedule II

                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                   For the Three Years Ended December 31, 1995



- --------------
(1)  Net of  acquisition  date  balances in allowance  for doubtful  accounts of
     companies  acquired of $463,  $1,330,  and $4,581 in 1995,  1994, and 1993,
     respectively.

(2)  During  1995,  the  Company  completed  certain   acquisitions  which  were
     accounted  for  under  the  pooling  of  interests  method  of  accounting.
     Information in the schedule  includes  balances for these companies for all
     periods presented.

                                      S-3

