
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   ----------

                                    FORM 10-K

                                  ANNUAL REPORT
                     PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended: December 31, 1996     Commission File Number: 1-10551

                                   ----------

                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                  NEW YORK                              13-1514814
      (State or other jurisdiction of      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
      incorporation or organization)

     437 Madison Avenue, New York, NY                      10022
 (Address of principal executive offices)               (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 415-3600


           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(B) of the Act:

                                                      Name of each exchange
      Title of each class                              on which registered
      -------------------                              -------------------
  Common Stock, $.50 Par Value                       New York Stock Exchange

        Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(G) of the Act: NONE

      Indicate by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in the definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

      At  March  14,  1997,  there  were  81,081,151   shares  of  Common  Stock
outstanding;   the   aggregate   market  value  of  the  voting  stock  held  by
nonaffiliates at March 14, 1997 was approximately $4,070,322,000.

      Indicate  the  number of shares  outstanding  of each of the  registrant's
classes of stock, as of the latest practicable date.

              Class                                Outstanding at March 14, 1997
   Common Stock, $.50 Par Value                              81,081,151
 Preferred Stock, $1.00 Par Value                               NONE

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain portions of the Registrant's  definitive proxy statement relating to its
annual  meeting  of  shareholders  scheduled  to be  held on May  19,  1997  are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.

================================================================================

                       


                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.
                           -----------------------
                       Index to Annual Report on Form 10-K

                          Year Ended December 31, 1996




                                     PART I
Item 1.  Business

      Omnicom  Group  Inc.,  through  its wholly and  partially-owned  companies
(hereinafter  collectively referred to as the "Company" or the "Omnicom Group"),
operates advertising agencies which plan, create,  produce and place advertising
in various media such as television, radio, newspaper and magazines. The Omnicom
Group offers its clients  such  additional  services as marketing  consultation,
consumer  market  research,  design and  production of  merchandising  and sales
promotion   programs  and   materials,   direct  mail   advertising,   corporate
identification,  public relations,  and interactive marketing. The Omnicom Group
offers these services to clients worldwide on a local, national, pan-regional or
global basis.  Operations  cover the major regions of North America,  the United
Kingdom,  Continental  Europe, the Middle East, Africa,  Latin America,  the Far
East and Australia. In 1996 and 1995, 51% and 53%, respectively,  of the Omnicom
Group's billings came from its non-U.S. operations.

     According to the unaudited  industry-wide  figures published in 1996 by the
trade  journal  Advertising  Age,  Omnicom  Group Inc.  was ranked as the second
largest advertising agency group worldwide.

      The Omnicom Group operates as three separate, independent agency networks:
the BBDO  Worldwide  Network,  the DDB  Needham  Worldwide  Network and the TBWA
International Network. The Omnicom Group also operates two independent agencies,
Cline,  Davis & Mann and  Goodby,  Silverstein  &  Partners,  certain  marketing
service and  specialty  advertising  companies  through its  Diversified  Agency
Services division ("DAS"),  and certain interactive  marketing companies through
Communicade.

The BBDO Worldwide, DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International Networks

General

      BBDO  Worldwide,   DDB  Needham  Worldwide  and  TBWA  International,   by
themselves   and  through  their   respective   subsidiaries   and   affiliates,
independently  operate  advertising  agency  networks  worldwide.  Their primary
business is to create  marketing  communications  for their  clients'  goods and
services across the total spectrum of advertising and promotion  media.  Each of
the agency networks has its own clients and competes with each other in the same
markets.

     The BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International  agencies
typically  assign to each client a group of  advertising  specialists  which may
include account  managers,  copywriters,  art directors and research,  media and
production personnel.  The account manager works with the client to establish an
overall advertising strategy for the client based on an analysis of the client's
products or services and its market. The group then creates and arranges for the
production of the  advertising  and/or  promotion and purchases  time,  space or
access in the relevant media in accordance with the client's budget.

BBDO Worldwide Network

     The BBDO  Worldwide  Network  operates in the United  States  through  BBDO
Worldwide which is headquartered in New York and has full-service offices in New
York, New York;  Los Angeles,  California;  Miami,  Florida;  Atlanta,  Georgia;
Chicago, Illinois; Detroit, Michigan; and Minneapolis, Minnesota.

      The BBDO Worldwide Network operates  internationally  through subsidiaries
in Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark,  Finland, France, Germany,
Greece,  Hong Kong, Hungary,  Italy,  Malaysia,  Mexico, the Netherlands,  Peru,
Poland,  Portugal,  Puerto  Rico,  Russia,  Singapore,  Spain,  Sweden,  Taiwan,
Thailand  and the United  Kingdom;  through  affiliates  located  in  Argentina,
Australia,  Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Czech Republic,  Egypt, El Salvador,
Guatemala,  Honduras,  India, Israel, Kuwait,  Lebanon, New Zealand,  Nicaragua,
Norway,  Panama,  the Philippines,  Romania,  Saudi Arabia, the Slovak Republic,
Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela;  and through
a joint  venture in Japan.  The BBDO  Worldwide  Network  uses the  services  of
associate  agencies in Colombia,  the Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Indonesia,
Korea, Pakistan and Uruguay. 



DDB Needham Worldwide Network

     The DDB Needham Worldwide Network operates in the United States through The
DDB Needham Worldwide  Communications  Group, which is headquartered in New York
and has  full-service  offices  in New  York,  New  York;  Los  Angeles  and San
Francisco,   California;   Dallas,  Texas;  Chicago,   Illinois;   and  Seattle,
Washington; and through Griffin Bacal Inc., which is headquartered in New York.

     The  DDB  Needham  Worldwide  Network  operates   internationally   through
subsidiaries in Australia,  Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Colombia,
the Czech Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Finland,  France, Germany, Greece, Hong
Kong,  Hungary,  Italy,  Japan,  Latvia,  Mexico, the Netherlands,  New Zealand,
Norway,  the  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Romania,  Singapore,  the Slovak
Republic,  Spain, Sweden,  Taiwan,  Thailand and the United Kingdom; and through
affiliates  located in Miami,  Florida  and in Brazil,  Chile,  Costa  Rica,  El
Salvador,  Germany,   Guatemala,   Honduras,  India,  Korea,  Malaysia,  Panama,
Switzerland,  Turkey and Venezuela.  The DDB Needham  Worldwide Network uses the
services  of  associate  agencies in  Argentina,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Belize,
Bolivia,  the Dominican  Republic,  Egypt,  Guam,  Indonesia,  Ireland,  Israel,
Kuwait, Lebanon, Montenegro, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru,
Puerto Rico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Slovenia, South Africa, Trinidad, the
United  Arab  Emirates,   Uruguay  and  Vietnam.  Griffin  Bacal  Inc.  operates
internationally  through  subsidiaries  in Canada  and the  United  Kingdom  and
through a branch in Mexico.

TBWA International Network

     The TBWA  International  Network  operates in North  America  through  TBWA
Chiat/Day which is headquartered in New York and has full-service offices in New
York,  New York;  Los Angeles,  California;  and St.  Louis,  Missouri;  through
Ketchum Advertising in Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania and San Francisco,  California;
through Graf Bertel  Buczek in New York,  New York;  and through TBWA  Chiat/Day
Canada in Toronto, Canada. The TBWA International Network also operates in North
America through its affiliate, TBWA Chiat/Day Mexico.

     The   TBWA   International   Network   operates   internationally   through
subsidiaries in Australia,  Belgium,  Brazil, China, Denmark,  France,  Germany,
Greece, Hong Kong, Italy, the Netherlands,  Portugal,  Singapore,  South Africa,
Spain,  Thailand  and the United  Kingdom;  and  through  affiliates  located in
Argentina,   Chile,  Hungary,  the  Netherlands,   Norway,  Poland,  Sweden  and
Switzerland.  The TBWA  International  Network  uses the  services of  associate
agencies in Austria,  Cyprus,  the Czech Republic,  India,  Israel,  Japan,  the
Middle East, Norway, Russia, South Korea and Zimbabwe.

Diversified Agency Services

     DAS is the Omnicom  Group's  Marketing  Services and Specialty  Advertising
Division.  The DAS  mission is to provide  the best  customer  driven  marketing
communications coordinated for the clients' benefit. Marketing services include:
promotion, public relations, public affairs, direct/database marketing, branding
consultancy, graphic arts, sports marketing and directory advertising. Specialty
advertising  includes:  financial,  healthcare,  multicultural  and  recruitment
advertising. DAS also operates independent consumer advertising and media buying
agencies.

     DAS agencies headquartered in the United States include: Gerstman & Meyers,
Harrison & Star, Interbrand Schechter, Kallir, Philips, Ross, Ketchum Healthcare
Communications,    Lyons/Lavey/Nickel/Swift,    Merkley    Newman   Harty,    RC
Communications,  The Rodd Group and Shain Colavito Pensabene Direct in New York;
Bernard  Hodes  Advertising,   Doremus  &  Company,  Gavin  Anderson  &  Company
Worldwide,  Ketchum Public Relations Worldwide,  Porter Novelli and Rapp Collins
Worldwide, all in various cities and headquartered in New York; Alcone Marketing
Group headquartered in Irvine,  California; TLP in Dallas, Texas; Baxter, Gurian
& Mazzei in Los Angeles, California; Clark & Weinstock in New York, New York and
Washington,  D.C.; Corbett HealthConnect in Chicago, Illinois; Creative Media in
New  York,  New York  and San  Francisco,  California;  Millsport  in  Stamford,
Connecticut;  Optima Direct in Vienna, Virginia;  Ketchum Directory Advertising,
headquartered  in  Chicago,   Illinois;   The  GMR  Group  in  Fort  Washington,
Pennsylvania; and Rainoldi, Kerzner & Radcliffe in San Francisco, California.



     DAS  operates in the United  Kingdom  through  subsidiaries  which  include
Colour  Solutions,  Countrywide  Communications  Group, CPM  International,  GPC
Market Access Group,  Granby Marketing  Services,  Interbrand,  MacMillan Davies
Hodes Advertising,  MacMillan Davies Hodes  Consultants,  Paling Walters Targis,
Premier  Magazines,   Product  Plus   International,   Smythe  Dorward  Lambert,
Specialist Publications, The Anvil Consultancy and WWAV Rapp Collins Group.

     In addition, DAS operates  internationally with subsidiaries and affiliates
in Argentina,  Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa
Rica, France,  Germany,  Hong Kong, India,  Indonesia,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,
Korea, Mexico, the Netherlands,  Panama, Puerto Rico,  Singapore,  South Africa,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Taiwan. 

Communicade

     The Omnicom  Group has  minority  interests  in six  interactive  marketing
agencies in the United States:  AGENCY.COM Ltd.,  Razorfish,  Inc. and Think New
Ideas, Inc.,  headquartered in New York; Red Sky Interactive and Organic Online,
Inc., in San Francisco,  California;  and Interactive Solutions Inc., in Boston,
Massachusetts.

Omnicom Group Inc.

     As the parent  company  of BBDO  Worldwide,  DDB  Needham  Worldwide,  TBWA
International,  DAS,  Communicade  and two  independent  agencies,  the Company,
through its wholly-owned  subsidiary Omnicom Management Inc.,  provides a common
financial and administrative base for the operating groups. The Company oversees
the  operations of each group  through  regular  meetings with their  respective
top-level management.  The Company sets operational goals for each of the groups
and  evaluates  performance  through  the  review  of  monthly  operational  and
financial  reports.  The Company provides its groups with  centralized  services
designed to coordinate financial reporting and controls,  tax, treasury and real
estate planning, and to focus corporate development objectives. The Company also
develops  consolidated  services  for its  agencies  and their  clients  such as
consolidated media buying arrangements.

Clients

     The clients of the Omnicom Group include  major  industrial,  financial and
service industry companies as well as smaller,  local clients. Among its largest
clients  are  Anheuser-Busch,  Chrysler,  Gillette,  Hasbro,  Henkel,  Johnson &
Johnson, Mars, McDonald's, Nissan, PepsiCo, Pfizer, Sony, Visa and Volkswagen.

     The Omnicom Group's ten largest clients  accounted for approximately 20% of
1996 commissions and fees. The majority of these have been clients for more than
ten years. The Omnicom Group's largest client accounted for less than 6% of 1996
commissions and fees.

Revenues

      Commissions  charged on media billings represent a significant  proportion
of revenues  for the  Omnicom  Group.  Commission  rates are not uniform and are
negotiated  with the client.  In accordance  with industry  practice,  the media
source  typically  bills  the  agency  for the time or space  purchased  and the
Omnicom Group bills its client for this amount plus the commission.  The Omnicom
Group  typically  requires  that payment for media  charges be received from the
client before the agency makes payments to the media. In some instances a member
of the Omnicom Group, like other advertising  agencies,  is at risk in the event
that its client is unable to pay the media.

      The  Omnicom  Group's  advertising  networks  also  generate  revenues  by
arranging for the production of advertisements and commercials.  Although,  as a
general matter, the Omnicom Group does not itself produce the advertisements and
commercials,  the Omnicom  Group's  creative and  production  staff  directs and
supervises the production company. Agencies bill the client for production costs
plus a commission. In some circumstances, certain production work is done by the
Omnicom Group's personnel.

      In  many  cases,  fees  are  generated  in lieu  of  commissions.  Several
different fee  arrangements  are used depending on client and individual  agency
needs. In general,  fee charges relate to the cost of providing  services plus a
markup.  The DAS companies  primarily  charge fees for their  various  specialty
services,  which vary in type and scale, depending upon the service rendered and
the client's requirements.



      Advertising agency revenues are dependent upon the marketing  requirements
of clients  and tend to be highest  in the  second  and fourth  quarters  of the
fiscal year.

Other Information

      For additional  information  concerning the  contribution of international
operations  to  commissions  and fees and net  income see Note 5 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

      The Omnicom Group is continuously  developing new methods of improving its
research capabilities, to analyze specific client requirements and to assess the
impact of  advertising.  In the United States,  approximately  198 people on the
Omnicom  Group's staff were employed in research during the year and the Omnicom
Group's domestic research expenditures approximated  $34,816,000.  Substantially
all such expenses were incurred in connection with contemporaneous  servicing of
clients.

      The  advertising  business is highly  competitive  and  accounts may shift
agencies with  comparative  ease,  usually on 90 days' notice.  Clients may also
reduce  advertising  budgets at any time for any reason.  An agency's ability to
compete for new clients is affected in some instances by the policy,  which many
advertisers  follow,  of not permitting their agencies to represent  competitive
accounts in the same market. As a result,  increasing size may limit an agency's
potential  for  securing  certain new  clients.  In the vast  majority of cases,
however,  the separate,  independent  identities of BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham
Worldwide, TBWA International, the independent agencies within the DAS Group and
Communicade,  and the other independent  agencies have enabled the Omnicom Group
to represent competing clients.

      BBDO  Worldwide,   DDB  Needham  Worldwide,   TBWA   International,   DAS,
Communicade and the independent agencies have sought, and as part of the Omnicom
Group's operating  segments will seek, new business by showing potential clients
examples of  advertising  campaigns  produced and by  explaining  the variety of
related  services  offered.  The Omnicom Group competes in the United States and
internationally  with a multitude of full service and special service  agencies.
In addition to the usual risks of the advertising agency business, international
operations are subject to the risk of currency exchange  fluctuations,  exchange
control restrictions and to actions of governmental authorities.

Employees

      The  business  success of the Omnicom  Group is, and will  continue to be,
highly dependent upon the skills and creativity of its creative, research, media
and account personnel and their relationships with clients. The Company believes
its operating groups have  established  reputations for creativity and marketing
expertise  which  attract,  retain and stimulate  talented  personnel.  There is
substantial  competition among advertising  agencies for talented  personnel and
all  agencies  are  vulnerable  to  adverse  consequences  from  the loss of key
individuals. Employees are generally not under employment contracts and are free
to move to  competitors  of the Omnicom  Group.  The Company  believes  that its
compensation  arrangements  for its key employees,  which include stock options,
restricted  stock and retirement  plans,  are highly  competitive  with those of
other  advertising  agencies.  As of  December  31,  1996,  the  Omnicom  Group,
excluding  unconsolidated  companies,  employed approximately 22,700 persons, of
which approximately  10,400 were employed in the United States and approximately
12,300 were employed in its international offices.

Government Regulation

      The advertising business is subject to government regulation,  both within
and outside the United States.  In the United States,  federal,  state and local
governments  and their  agencies and various  consumer  groups have  directly or
indirectly  affected  or  attempted  to affect the scope,  content and manner of
presentation  of  advertising.  The  continued  activity  by  government  and by
consumer  groups  regarding  advertising  may cause  further  change in domestic
advertising  practices  in the  coming  years.  While the  Company  is unable to
estimate  the  effect of these  developments  on its U.S.  business,  management
believes the total volume of  advertising  in general media in the United States
will not be materially  reduced due to future  legislation or  regulation,  even
though the form,  content,  and manner of  presentation  of  advertising  may be
modified.  In addition,  the Company will continue to ensure that its management
and  operating  personnel  are  aware  of and  are  responsive  to the  possible
implications of such developments. 



Item 2. PROPERTIES

     Substantially  all of the Company's offices are located in leased premises.
The  Company   actively   manages  its  obligations   and,  where   appropriate,
consolidates its leased premises.  Management has obtained subleases for most of
the premises vacated. Where appropriate, management has established reserves for
the  difference  between the cost of the leased  premises  that were vacated and
anticipated sublease income.

Domestic

     The Company's  corporate  office occupies  approximately  32,000 sq. ft. of
space at 437 Madison  Avenue,  New York,  New York under a lease expiring in the
year 2010.

     BBDO  Worldwide  occupies  approximately  285,000  sq. ft. of space at 1285
Avenue of the Americas,  New York,  New York under a lease  expiring in the year
2012, which includes options for additional growth of the agency.

     DDB Needham Worldwide  occupies  approximately  171,000 sq. ft. of space at
437 Madison  Avenue,  New York, New York under leases expiring in the year 2010,
which include options for additional growth of the agency.

     TBWA Chiat/Day occupies approximately 58,000 sq. ft. of space at 180 Maiden
Lane, New York, New York under a lease expiring in the year 2016, which includes
options for additional growth of the agency.

     Offices in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Detroit,  Houston, Irvine, Los
Angeles, Mahwah, Minneapolis, New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, San Francisco,
San Jose, Seattle, St. Louis and Washington, D.C. and at various other locations
occupy  approximately  2,877,000  sq. ft. of space  under  leases  with  varying
expiration dates.

International

     The Company's international  subsidiaries in Australia,  Austria,  Belgium,
Brazil, Canada, China, the Czech Republic,  Denmark,  Finland,  France, Germany,
Greece,  Hong Kong,  Hungary,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Malaysia,  Mexico,  the
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  the  Philippines,  Portugal,  Puerto Rico,
Singapore,  the Slovak Republic,  South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan,  Thailand
and the United  Kingdom  occupy  premises  under leases with various  expiration
dates.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

      The Company has no material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary
routine litigation incidental to its business.

Item  4.  Submission  of Matters to a Vote of Security  Holders 

      No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during 1996.

Executive Officers of the Company

      The  individuals  named below are  Executive  Officers of the Company and,
except as indicated  below,  have held their current  positions  during the last
five years:




     John D. Wren was  appointed  Chief  Executive  Officer of the Omnicom Group
effective January 1, 1997,  succeeding Bruce Crawford in the position.  Mr. Wren
was appointed  President of the Omnicom Group and Chairman of Diversified Agency
Services in September 1995. Mr. Wren was appointed  Chief  Executive  Officer of
Diversified  Agency  Services in May 1993.  Mr. Wren had served as  President of
Diversified Agency Services since February 1992, having previously served as its
Executive Vice President and General Manager.

     Fred J. Meyer joined the Company in April 1988 as Chief Financial  Officer.
Mr. Meyer was previously  Senior Vice President and Chief  Financial  Officer of
CBS Inc.

     Dennis E. Hewitt was promoted to Treasurer of the Company in January  1994.
Mr. Hewitt joined the Company in May 1988 as Assistant Treasurer.

     Barry J. Wagner was promoted to Secretary & General  Counsel of the Company
in May 1995. Mr. Wagner was previously Assistant Secretary of the Company.

     Jonathan E. Ramsden was promoted to Controller of the Company in June 1996.
Mr.  Ramsden  joined the  Company  in March  1996  after nine years with  Arthur
Andersen.

     Similar information with respect to the remaining Executive Officers of the
Company,  who are all  directors of the Company,  can be found in the  Company's
definitive proxy statement expected to be filed April 7, 1997.

     The Executive  Officers of the Company are elected  annually  following the
annual meeting of the shareholders of their respective employers.



                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

      Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend History

      The Company's  Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol  "OMC".  The table below shows the range of reported last sale prices
on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape for the Company's common stock for
the periods  indicated and the dividends  paid per share on the common stock for
such periods; the reported last sale price on March 14, 1997 was $51.

                                                                 Dividends Paid
                                                                  Per Share of
                                            High        Low       Common Stock
                                            -----      -----      -------------
        First Quarter.....................  28 7/16     25            .155
        Second Quarter....................  30 13/16    27 1/16       .155
        Third Quarter.....................  33          29 5/16       .175
        Fourth Quarter....................  37 1/4      31 3/16       .175

        First Quarter.....................  45          35 5/8        .175
        Second Quarter....................  46 1/2      40 1/4        .175
        Third Quarter.....................  47 3/4      39 1/8        .20
        Fourth Quarter....................  51 1/2      44            .20

      The  Company  is not aware of any  restrictions  on its  present or future
ability  to  pay  dividends.  However,  in  connection  with  certain  borrowing
facilities  entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries  (see Note 7 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial  Statements),  the Company is subject to certain
restrictions on the ratio of debt to cash flow, the ratio of total  consolidated
indebtedness  to  total  consolidated  capitalization  and its  ability  to make
investments in and loans to affiliates and unconsolidated subsidiaries.

      On January 28, 1997 the Board of  Directors  declared a regular  quarterly
dividend of $.20 per share of common stock,  payable April 3, 1997 to holders of
record on March 14, 1997.

      Approximate Number of Equity Security Holders

                                                           Approximate Number of
                                                              Record Holders
                 Title of Class                              on March 14, 1997
                 --------------                            ---------------------
      Common Stock, $.50 par value.......................           3,658
      Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value ..................           None



 Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

      The following table sets forth selected  financial data of the Company and
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated  financial  statements which
begin on page F-1.



Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
  of Operations

Results of Operations

      In 1996,  domestic  revenues  from  commissions  and fees  increased  23.9
percent.  The effect of acquisitions,  net of divestitures,  accounted for a 7.4
percent  increase.  The remaining 16.5 percent increase was due to the growth of
existing  businesses,  including net new business  gains and higher net spending
from existing clients.

      In 1995,  domestic  revenues  from  commissions  and fees  increased  12.8
percent.  The effect of acquisitions,  net of divestitures,  accounted for a 1.5
percent  increase.  The remaining 11.3 percent increase was due to the growth of
existing  businesses,  including net new business  gains and higher net spending
from existing clients.

      In  1994,  domestic  revenues  from  commissions  and fees  increased  7.0
percent.  The effect of acquisitions,  net of divestitures,  accounted for a 1.2
percent  increase.  The remaining 5.8 percent  increase was due to the growth of
existing  businesses,  including net new business  gains and higher net spending
from existing clients.

      In 1996,  international  revenues  increased  10.3 percent.  The effect of
acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for a 3.2  percent  increase in
international revenues. Changes in the foreign exchange value of the U.S. dollar
decreased  international  revenues by 3.4 percent.  The  remaining  10.5 percent
increase  was  due to the  growth  of  existing  businesses,  including  net new
business gains and higher net spending from existing clients.

      In 1995,  international  revenues  increased  24.3 percent.  The effect of
acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for a 5.9  percent  increase in
international revenues. The weakening of the U.S. dollar increased international
revenues by 6.7 percent.  The  remaining  11.7  percent  increase was due to the
growth of existing  businesses,  including net new business gains and higher net
spending from existing clients.

      In 1994,  international  revenues  increased  20.2 percent.  The effect of
acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for an 8.5 percent  increase in
international revenues. The weakening of the U.S. dollar increased international



revenues by 2.3  percent.  The  remaining  9.4 percent  increase  was due to the
growth of existing  businesses,  including net new business gains and higher net
spending from existing clients.

      In  1996,   worldwide   operating   expenses   increased   16.5   percent.
Acquisitions,  net of divestitures during the year,  accounted for a 4.9 percent
increase in worldwide operating expenses.  Changes in the foreign exchange value
of the U.S. dollar decreased  worldwide  operating expenses by 1.6 percent.  The
remaining   13.2   percent   increase   was  caused  by  increases  in  employee
compensation,   including  relatively  higher  levels  of  bonus  and  incentive
compensation and severance payments, and growth in out-of-pocket expenditures to
service  the  increased  revenue  base.  Net  foreign  exchange  gains  did  not
significantly impact operating expenses for the year.

      In  1995,   worldwide   operating   expenses   increased   17.4   percent.
Acquisitions,  net of divestitures during the year,  accounted for a 3.9 percent
increase  in  worldwide  operating  expenses.  The  weakening  of the U.S dollar
increased  worldwide  operating  expenses by 3.2  percent.  The  remaining  10.3
percent   increase  was  caused  by  normal  salary   increases  and  growth  in
out-of-pocket  expenditures  to service the increased  revenue base. Net foreign
exchange gains did not significantly impact operating expenses for the year.

      In  1994,   worldwide   operating   expenses   increased   10.2   percent.
Acquisitions,  net of divestitures during the year,  accounted for a 4.8 percent
increase  in  worldwide  operating  expenses.  The  weakening  of the U.S dollar
increased worldwide operating expenses by 1.1 percent. The remaining 4.3 percent
increase  was caused by normal  salary  increases  and  growth in  out-of-pocket
expenditures  to service the  increased  revenue base,  partially  offset by the
elimination of special charges recorded in 1993 related to the  restructuring of
certain real estate  operating  leases,  including the write off of fixed assets
abandoned in conjunction with lease terminations. Net foreign exchange gains did
not significantly impact operating expenses for the year.

      Net interest  expense in 1996  decreased  $6.9  million,  due primarily to
lower average  interest rates on borrowings and the conversion of the 4.5%/6.25%
Step-Up Convertible Subordinated Debentures in September 1996.

      Net interest  expense in 1995 was  comparable  to net interest  expense in
1994. The effect of higher average  borrowings during the year was offset by the
effect of higher  average  amounts of cash and  marketable  securities  invested
during the year.

      Net interest  expense in 1994  decreased by $4.4  million.  This  decrease
reflects  lower  average  interest  rates on  borrowings,  primarily  due to the
conversion of the Company's 7%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures in October
1993  and  the  conversion  of  the  Company's  6.5%  Convertible   Subordinated
Debentures in July 1994,  partially  offset by lower average funds available for
investment during the year and declining interest rates in certain countries.

      In 1996, the effective tax rate  increased to 40.5 percent.  This increase
reflects an increase in the effective rate of state and local taxes.

      In 1995,  the effective tax rate  decreased to 40.1 percent.  The decrease
reflects a reduction in the effect of nondeductible  goodwill amortization and a
decrease in the effective rate of state and local taxes.

      In 1994,  the effective tax rate  decreased to 41.2 percent.  The decrease
reflects  a  reduction  in losses of  domestic  and  international  subsidiaries
without tax benefit,  a reduction in the effective rate of state and local taxes
and a reduction in the effect of nondeductible goodwill amortization,  offset by
the elimination of nontaxable proceeds from life insurance policies.

      In 1996, consolidated net income increased 26.0 percent. This increase was
the result of revenue growth and margin  improvement.  Operating  margin,  which
excludes  net  interest  expense,  increased  to 12.4  percent in 1996 from 12.0
percent in 1995 as a result of greater growth in commission and fee revenue than
the growth in operating  expenses.  In 1996, the impact of acquisitions,  net of
divestitures,  resulted in a 2.7 percent  increase in  consolidated  net income,
while  changes  in the  foreign  exchange  value  of the U.S.  dollar  decreased
consolidated net income by 2.4 percent.

      In 1995,  consolidated  net income increased 25.5 percent compared to 1994
consolidated  net income  before the adoption of SFAS 112. This increase was the
result of revenue growth, margin improvement,  and an increase in equity income,
partially offset by an increase in minority interest  expense.  Operating margin
increased  to 12.0  percent  in 1995  from 11.3  percent  in 1994 as a result of
greater  growth in  commission  and fee  revenue  than the  growth in  operating
expenses.  The increase in equity income was primarily due to increased earnings
of the Company's existing equity  affiliates.  The increase in minority interest
expense was caused by higher earnings from companies in which minority interests



exist. In 1995, the impact of divestitures,  net of acquisitions,  resulted in a
4.4 percent decrease in consolidated net income, while the weakening of the U.S.
dollar against  several  international  currencies  increased  consolidated  net
income by 3.4 percent.

      In 1994, consolidated net income before the adoption of SFAS 112 increased
by 70.0  percent.  This  increase  was the  result  of  revenue  growth,  margin
improvement,  an increase in equity  income and a reduction in the effective tax
rate.  Operating  margin  increased  to 11.3 percent in 1994 from 9.1 percent in
1993 as a result of greater growth in commission and fee revenue than the growth
in  operating  expenses.  The  increase in equity  income was  primarily  due to
earnings from new equity  affiliates  and was also due to improved net income at
companies  which  are less  than 50  percent  owned.  In  1994,  the  impact  of
divestitures,  net  of  acquisitions,  resulted  in a 2.3  percent  decrease  in
consolidated net income,  while the weakening of the U.S. dollar against several
international currencies increased consolidated net income by 1.4 percent.

      At December 31, 1996,  accounts  receivable  less  allowance  for doubtful
accounts,  increased by $52.2  million from  December 31, 1995.  At December 31,
1996, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities increased by $335.5 million
and $97.3 million,  respectively,  from December 31, 1995.  These increases were
primarily due to an increased volume of activity  resulting from business growth
and  acquisitions  during  the  year  and,  in the  case  of  accounts  payable,
differences  in the  timing of  payments  to media and other  suppliers  in 1996
compared to 1995.

      Effective January 1, 1994, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement
of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  112   "Employers'   Accounting  for
Postemployment  Benefits".  The  cumulative  after tax effect of the adoption of
this statement decreased net income by $28.0 million.

      The Company's international operations are subject to the risk of currency
exchange rate fluctuations.  This risk is generally limited to the net income of
the  operations  as the revenues and expenses of the  operations  are  generally
denominated in the same  currency.  When  economically  beneficial to do so, the
Company or its  international  operations  enter into  hedging  transactions  to
minimize the risk of adverse  currency  exchange  rate  fluctuations  on the net
income of the  operation.  The  Company's  major  international  markets are the
United Kingdom, Germany, France, the Netherlands,  Canada, Spain, and Australia.
The  Company's  operations  are  also  subject  to the  risk  of  interest  rate
fluctuations.

      As part of managing  the  Company's  exposures  to currency  exchange  and
market interest rates, the Company periodically enters into derivative financial
instruments.  In order to minimize  counterparty  risk,  the Company only enters
into derivative  contracts with major  well-known banks that have credit ratings
equal to or better than the Company's.  Additionally,  these  contracts  contain
provisions for net settlement. As such, the contracts settle based on the spread
between the currency rates and interest rates contained in the contracts and the
current market rates. This minimizes the risk of an insolvent counterparty being
unable to pay the Company  and, at the same time,  having the  creditors  of the
counterparty demanding the notional principal amount from the Company.

      The Company's derivative  activities are limited in volume and confined to
risk management  activities  related to the Company's  worldwide  operations.  A
reporting  system  is in place  which  evaluates  the  impact  on the  Company's
earnings  resulting from changes in interest rates,  currency exchange rates and
other  relevant  market  risks.  This  system is  structured  to  enable  senior
management to initiate prompt remedial action, if appropriate.

      At December 31, 1996 and 1995,  the Company had forward  foreign  exchange
contracts  outstanding  with an  aggregate  notional  principal  amount  of $301
million and $325 million,  respectively,  most of which were  denominated in the
Company's major international market currencies.  These contracts  predominantly
hedge certain of the Company's  intercompany  receivables and payables which are
recorded in a currency  different from that in which they will settle. The terms
of these contracts are generally three months or less.

      At December 31, 1996 no swap agreements were outstanding.  At December 31,
1995,  the Company had executed  interest rate swap  contracts  with banks which
became  effective  during  1996.  These  contracts  consisted  of: a $75 million
notional  principal amount U.S. dollar fixed to floating rate swap relating to a
portion of the Company's  intercompany interest cash flows; a Deutsche Mark 76.6
million notional principal amount  (approximately  $53.3 million at the December
31, 1995 exchange rate)  floating to fixed rate swap and a $10 million  notional
principal  amount U.S. dollar floating to fixed rate swap, both of which were to
convert a portion of the Company's  floating  rate debt to a fixed rate.  During
1996, these interest rate swap contracts were terminated.




     At  December  31,  1996 and  1995,  the  Company  had no  other  derivative
contracts outstanding.

     The Company anticipates  relatively  favorable growth rates in its domestic
and international markets.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

      Cash and cash  equivalents  increased $196.3 million during 1996 to $510.3
million at December 31, 1996.  The Company's  positive net cash flow provided by
operating  activities  was  maintained,   in  part,  by  a  continued  favorable
relationship  between the  collection of accounts  receivable and the payment of
obligations  to media  and  other  suppliers.  After  annual  cash  outlays  for
dividends paid to shareholders and minority  interests and the repurchase of the
Company's  common  stock for  employee  programs,  the balance of the cash flow,
together with the proceeds from issuance of debt  obligations,  was used to fund
acquisitions, make capital expenditures and repay debt obligations.

      On July 12,  1996,  the  Company  issued a Notice  of  Redemption  for the
outstanding  4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  with  a
scheduled  maturity in 2000. Prior to the September 5, 1996 redemption date, the
debenture  holders elected to convert all of their  outstanding  debentures into
common stock of the Company at a conversion price of $27.44 per common share.

      On March 1, 1996,  the Company issued  Deutsche Mark 100 million  Floating
Rate Bonds  (approximately  $68 million at the March 1, 1996 exchange  rate) due
March 1,  1999.  The  bonds are  unsecured,  unsubordinated  obligations  of the
Company and bear interest at a per annum rate equal to Deutsche Mark three month
LIBOR plus 0.375%.

      On January 4, 1995,  an indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company
issued  Deutsche Mark 200 million  Floating Rate Bonds due January 5, 2000.  The
bonds  are  unsecured,   unsubordinated   obligations  of  the  issuer  and  are
unconditionally  and  irrevocably  guaranteed  by the  Company.  The bonds  bear
interest  at a per annum rate equal to  Deutsche  Mark  three  month  LIBOR plus
0.65%.

      On June 1,  1994,  the  Company  issued a  Notice  of  Redemption  for the
outstanding  $100 million of its 6.5%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures due
2004. Prior to the July 27, 1994 redemption date, the debenture  holders elected
to convert all of their outstanding  debentures into common stock of the Company
at a conversion price of $14.00 per common share.

      The  Company  maintains  relationships  with a number of banks  worldwide,
which have extended unsecured committed lines of credit in amounts sufficient to
meet the  Company's  cash needs.  At  December  31,  1996,  the Company had $475
million  in such  unsecured  committed  lines  of  credit,  comprised  of a $360
million,  five year revolving credit agreement  expiring June 30, 2001, and $115
million in lines of credit,  principally  outside of the United  States.  Of the
$475 million in unsecured  committed lines, $5 million were used at December 31,
1996. Management believes the aggregate lines of credit available to the Company
are adequate to support its short-term cash requirements for dividends,  capital
expenditures and maintenance of working capital.

      On January 3, 1997, the Company issued $218.5 million of 41/4% Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures  with a scheduled  maturity in 2007. The debentures are
convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion price of $63.00 per
share subject to adjustment in certain events.  Debenture holders have the right
to require the Company to redeem the debentures on January 3, 2003 at a price of
112.418%,  or upon the  occurrence  of a Fundamental  Change,  as defined in the
indenture agreement,  at the prevailing redemption price. The Company may redeem
the  debentures,  as a whole or in part, on or after December 29, 2000 initially
at 108.324% and at increasing  prices  thereafter  to 112.418%  until January 2,
2003  and 100%  thereafter.  Unless  the  debentures  are  redeemed,  repaid  or
converted prior thereto,  the debentures will mature on January 3, 2007 at their
principal  amount.  The  proceeds  of this  issuance  are being used for general
corporate purposes including working capital.

     The Company anticipates that the year end cash position,  together with the
future cash flows from  operations and funds  available  under  existing  credit
facilities  (including the 41/4%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures) will be
adequate to meet its long-term cash requirements as presently contemplated.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The  financial  statements  and  supplementary  data  required by this item
appear beginning on page F-1.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
        Financial Disclosure

     None.


                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

      Information  with respect to the  directors of the Company and  compliance
with Section 16 rules is incorporated  by reference to the Company's  definitive
proxy statement expected to be filed by April 7, 1997. Information regarding the
Company's executive officers is set forth in Part I of this Form 10-K.


Item 11.  Executive Compensation

      Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 7, 1997.


Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

      Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 7, 1997.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 7, 1997.



                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K



      All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable.

   3. Exhibits:
      (3)(i)    Articles of  Incorporation  (as amended on November 28, 1995
                and  as  restated  for  filing  purposes).  Incorporated  by
                reference to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K
                for the year ended December 31, 1995.

         (ii)   By-laws.
                Incorporated  by  reference to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987.

      (4)       Instruments   Defining  the  Rights  of  Security   Holders,
                Including Indentures.

      4.1       Copy of  Subscription  Agreement  dated December 14, 1994 by
                and  among the  Registrant,  BBDO  Canada  Inc.  and  Morgan
                Stanley  GmbH and the  other  Managers  listed  therein,  in
                connection with the issuance of DM 200,000,000 Floating Rate
                Bonds of 1995  due  January  5,  2000 of BBDO  Canada  Inc.,
                including form of Guaranty by  Registrant,  filed as Exhibit
                4.2 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                the year ended December 31, 1994, is incorporated  herein by
                reference.

      4.2       Paying Agency  Agreement  dated January 4, 1995 by and among
                the Registrant,  BBDO Canada Inc. and Morgan Stanley GmbH in
                connection with the issuance of DM 200,000,000 Floating Rate
                Bonds of 1995 due January 5, 2000 of BBDO Canada Inc.  filed
                as Exhibit 4.3 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form
                10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1994, is  incorporated
                herein by reference.

      4.3       Copy of  Subscription  Agreement  dated February 27, 1996 by
                and among the Registrant,  Morgan Stanley Bank AG and Morgan
                Stanley & Co.  International in connection with the issuance
                of DM  100,000,000  Floating Rate Bonds of 1996 due March 1,
                1999 filed as Exhibit  4.4 to Omnicom  Group  Inc.'s  Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, is
                incorporated herein by reference.




      4.4       Paying Agency Agreement dated March 1, 1996 by and among the
                Registrant,  Morgan Stanley Bank AG and Morgan Stanley & Co.
                International   in  connection   with  the  issuance  of  DM
                100,000,000  Floating  Rate  Bonds of 1996 due March 1, 1999
                filed as Exhibit 4.5 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report
                on Form  10-K for the  year  ended  December  31,  1995,  is
                incorporated herein by reference.

      4.5       Indenture  dated January 3, 1997 between the  Registrant and
                The Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee, in connection with the
                issuance of 41/4%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures due
                2007 filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Omnicom  Group  Inc.'s Form S-3
                Registration Statement No. 333-22589, is incorporated herein
                by reference.

      4.6       Form of Debentures  (included in Exhibit 4.5 above) filed as
                Exhibit 4.3 to Omnicom  Group  Inc.'s Form S-3  Registration
                Statement  No.   333-22589,   is   incorporated   herein  by
                reference.

      4.7       Registration  Rights  Agreement  dated as of January 3, 1997
                between the Registrant and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
                related to the Registrant's  41/4% Convertible  Subordinated
                Debentures  due 2007 filed as Exhibit  4.4 to Omnicom  Group
                Inc.'s Form S-3  Registration  Statement No.  333-22589,  is
                incorporated herein by reference.

       (10)     Material Contracts.

                Management  Contracts,   Compensatory  Plans,  Contracts  or
                Arrangements.

      10.1      Copy of Registrant's 1987 Stock Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.26
                to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                year ended  December 31,  1987,  is  incorporated  herein by
                reference.

      10.2      Amendments to Registrant's 1987 Stock Plan, filed as Exhibit
                10.2 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                the year ended December 31, 1994, is incorporated  herein by
                reference.

      10.3      Copy of  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement Plan dated
                May 16, 1988, filed as Exhibit 10.24 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s
                Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
                1988, is incorporated herein by reference.

      10.4      Amendment to Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement  Plan,
                listed as Exhibit  10.3  above,  adopted  February  4, 1991,
                filed as Exhibit 10.28 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report
                on Form  10-K for the  year  ended  December  31,  1990,  is
                incorporated herein by reference.

      10.5      Amendment to  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement  Plan
                listed as Exhibit  10.3 above,  adopted on December 7, 1992,
                filed as Exhibit 10.13 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report
                on Form  10-K for the  year  ended  December  31,  1992,  is
                incorporated herein by reference.

      10.6      Amendment to  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement  Plan
                listed as Exhibit 10.3 above, adopted on July 1, 1993, filed
                as Exhibit  10.10 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report on
                Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended   December  31,  1993,  is
                incorporated herein by reference.

      10.7      Standard  Form of the  Registrant's  1988  Executive  Salary
                Continuation  Plan  Agreement,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.24 to
                Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                ended   December  31,  1989,  is   incorporated   herein  by
                reference.

      10.8      Standard Form of the Registrant's  Indemnification Agreement
                with members of  Registrant's  Board of Directors,  filed as
                Exhibit  10.25 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form
                10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1989, is  incorporated
                herein by reference.

      10.9      Copy of DDB Needham Worldwide Joint Savings Plan,  effective
                as of May 1, 1989,  filed as Exhibit  10.26 to Omnicom Group
                Inc.'s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                December 31, 1989, is incorporated herein by reference.



      10.10     Copy of  Severance  Agreement  dated July 6,  1993,  between
                Keith Reinhard and The DDB Needham Worldwide  Communications
                Group,  Inc.  (then known as DDB Needham  Worldwide,  Inc.),
                filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report
                on Form  10-K for the  year  ended  December  31,  1993,  is
                incorporated herein by reference.

      10.11     Copy of  Employment  Agreement  dated May 26, 1993,  between
                William G.  Tragos  and TBWA  International  B.V.,  filed as
                Exhibit  10.13 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form
                10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1993, is  incorporated
                herein by reference.

      10.12     Copy of Deferred  Compensation  Agreement  dated October 12,
                1984,  between William G. Tragos and TBWA Advertising  Inc.,
                filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report
                on Form  10-K for the  year  ended  December  31,  1993,  is
                incorporated herein by reference.

      10.13     Standard   Form   of   Severance    Compensation   Agreement
                incorporated by reference to BBDO International  Inc.'s Form
                S-1  Registration  Statement  filed with the  Securities and
                Exchange  Commission on September 28, 1973, is  incorporated
                herein by reference.

                Other Material Contracts.

      10.14     Copy of $360,000,000  Credit Agreement,  dated May 10, 1996,
                between Omnicom Finance Inc.,  Omnicom Finance Limited,  ABN
                AMRO Bank N.V.,  Chase  Securities  Inc.  and the  financial
                institutions  party  thereto,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.15  to
                Omnicom Group Inc.'s  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
                quarter  ended  June 30,  1996,  is  incorporated  herein by
                reference.

      10.15     Copy of  Amendment  No.  1 dated  December 27,  1996, to the
                Omnicom  $360,000,000  Credit  Agreement dated May 10, 1996,
                listed as Exhibit 10.14 above.

      (21)      Subsidiaries of the Registrant............................. S-2

      (23)      Consents of Experts and Counsel.

      23.1      Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP............................. S-15

      (24)      Powers  of  Attorney  from  Bernard   Brochand,   Robert  J.
                Callander, James A. Cannon, Leonard S. Coleman, Jr., John R.
                Murphy,   John  R.  Purcell,   Keith  L.   Reinhard,   Allen
                Rosenshine,  Gary L. Roubos,  Quentin I. Smith, Jr., William
                G. Tragos and Egon P. S. Zehnder.

      (27)      Financial Data Schedule (filed in electronic format only).

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

      No reports on Form 8-K were  filed  during the fourth  quarter of the year
ended December 31, 1996.



                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                           Omnicom Group Inc.
Date: March 24, 1997
                                           By:         /s/ FRED J. MEYER
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                         Fred J. Meyer
                                                   Chief Financial Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



            Signature                         Title                   Date
            ---------                         -----                   ----

       /s/ BRUCE CRAWFORD             Chairman and Director       March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
        (Bruce Crawford)

         /s/ JOHN D. WREN            Chief Executive Officer      March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------    and President and Director
         (John D. Wren)

        /s/ FRED J. MEYER             Chief Financial Officer     March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
         (Fred J. Meyer)

     /s/ JONATHAN E. RAMSDEN           Controller (Principal      March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------        Accounting Officer)
      (Jonathan E. Ramsden)

       /s/ BARRY J. WAGNER                 Secretary and          March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------          General Counsel
        (Barry J. Wagner)       

      /s/ BERNARD BROCHAND*                  Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
       (Bernard Brochand)

    /s/ ROBERT J. CALLANDER*                 Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
      (Robert J. Callander)

      /s/ JAMES A. CANNON*                   Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
        (James A. Cannon)

  /s/ LEONARD S. COLEMAN, JR.*               Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
    (Leonard S. Coleman, Jr.)

       /s/ JOHN R. MURPHY*                   Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
        (John R. Murphy)

       /s/ JOHN R. PURCELL *                 Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
        (John R. Purcell)

     /s/ KEITH L. REINHARD*                  Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
       (Keith L. Reinhard)

      /s/ ALLEN ROSENSHINE*                  Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
       (Allen Rosenshine)

       /s/ GARY L. ROUBOS*                   Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
        (Gary L. Roubos)

   /s/ QUENTIN I. SMITH, JR.*                Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
     (Quentin I. Smith, Jr.)

     /s/ WILLIAM G. TRAGOS*                  Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
       (William G. Tragos)

     /s/ EGON P.S. ZEHNDER*                  Director             March 24, 1997
- --------------------------------
       (Egon P.S. Zehnder)

*By    /s/ BARRY J. WAGNER  
- --------------------------------
         Barry J. Wagner
        Attorney-in-fact




                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

      The management of Omnicom Group Inc. is  responsible  for the integrity of
the financial  data reported by Omnicom Group and its  subsidiaries.  Management
uses its best judgment to ensure that the financial  statements  present fairly,
in all material  respects,  the consolidated  financial  position and results of
operations of Omnicom Group.  These  financial  statements have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

      The system of internal  controls of Omnicom Group,  augmented by a program
of internal audits, is designed to provide reasonable  assurance that assets are
safeguarded  and records are  maintained  to  substantiate  the  preparation  of
accurate financial information.  Underlying this concept of reasonable assurance
is the premise that the cost of control  should not exceed the benefits  derived
therefrom.

       The  financial   statements  have  been  audited  by  independent  public
accountants.  Their report expresses an independent  informed judgment as to the
fairness of management's reported operating results and financial position. This
judgment is based on the procedures  described in the second  paragraph of their
report.

      The Audit Committee meets  periodically with  representatives of financial
management, internal audit and the independent public accountants to assure that
each is properly discharging their responsibilities. In order to ensure complete
independence,  the Audit Committee communicates directly and separately with the
independent  public  accountants,  internal  audit and  financial  management to
discuss  the  results of their  audits,  the  adequacy  of  internal  accounting
controls and the quality of financial reporting.


             /s/ JOHN D. WREN                        /s/ FRED J. MEYER
- --------------------------------------  ----------------------------------------
               John D. Wren                            Fred J. Meyer
  Chief Executive Officer and President          Chief Financial Officer

                                      F-1


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and
  Shareholders of Omnicom Group Inc.:

      We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Omnicom
Group Inc. (a New York corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and
1995, and the related consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders' equity,
and cash flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,
1996.  These  financial  statements  and the schedule  referred to below are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all  material  respects,  the  financial  position of Omnicom  Group Inc. and
subsidiaries  as of  December  31,  1996  and  1995,  and the  results  of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1996 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

      As  discussed  in  Note  13  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements,
effective  January 1, 1994,  the Company  changed its method of  accounting  for
postemployment benefits.

      Our  audits  were made for the  purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule on page S-1 is presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is
not part of the basic financial statements.  This schedule has been subjected to
the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial  statements
and, in our opinion,  fairly states in all material  respects the financial data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic  financial  statements
taken as a whole.


                                                         ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
New York, New York
February 18, 1997

                                      F-2


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                                                  Years Ended December 31,
                                                   (Dollars in Thousands
                                                   Except Per Share Data)
                                          -------------------------------------
                                             1996          1995        1994
                                             ----          ----        ----
COMMISSIONS AND FEES...................   $2,641,667    $2,257,536   $1,907,795

OPERATING EXPENSES:
     Salaries and Related Costs........    1,555,553     1,305,087    1,102,944
     Office and General Expenses.......      759,541       681,544      588,747
                                          ----------    ----------   ----------
                                           2,315,094     1,986,631    1,691,691
                                          ----------    ----------   ----------
OPERATING PROFIT.......................      326,573       270,905      216,104

NET INTEREST EXPENSE:
     Interest and Dividend Income......      (12,725)      (15,019)     (13,295)
     Interest Paid or Accrued..........       34,067        43,271       40,485
                                          ----------    ----------   ----------
                                              21,342        28,252       27,190
                                          ----------    ----------   ----------

INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES
     AND CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING
     PRINCIPLE.........................      305,231       242,653      188,914

INCOME TAXES...........................      123,639        97,386       77,927
                                          ----------    ----------   ----------

INCOME AFTER INCOME TAXES AND BEFORE
   CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE......      181,592       145,267      110,987
EQUITY IN AFFILIATES...................       20,510        20,828       18,322
MINORITY INTERESTS.....................      (25,773)      (26,140)     (17,814)
                                          ----------    ----------   ----------
INCOME BEFORE CHANGE IN
   ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE................      176,329       139,955      111,495
CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN
   ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE................          --            --       (28,009)
                                          ----------    ----------   ----------
NET INCOME.............................   $  176,329    $  139,955   $   83,486
                                          ==========    ==========   ==========
NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE:
   Income Before Change in
        Accounting Principle:
        Primary........................   $     2.29    $     1.89   $     1.58
        Fully Diluted..................   $     2.25    $     1.85   $     1.54
                                                            
   Cumulative Effect of Change                              
     in Accounting Principle:                               
        Primary........................   $      --     $      --    $    (0.40)
        Fully Diluted..................   $      --     $      --    $    (0.40)
                                                            
   Net Income:                                              
        Primary........................   $     2.29    $     1.89   $     1.18
        Fully Diluted..................   $     2.25    $     1.85   $     1.18
                                                           
       The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an
                       integral part of these statements.

                                      F-3



                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                   A S S E T S


       The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an
                     integral part of these balance sheets.

                                      F-4


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

                       Three Years Ended December 31, 1996
                             (Dollars in Thousands)



       The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an
                       integral part of these statements.

                                      F-5


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


       The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an
                       integral part of these statements.

                                      F-6


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

      Business.  Omnicom  Group  Inc.,  through  its wholly and  partially-owned
companies,  operates advertising agencies which plan, create,  produce and place
advertising in various media such as television, radio, newspaper and magazines.
Additional  services such as marketing  consultation,  consumer market research,
design  and  production  of  merchandising  and  sales  promotion  programs  and
materials, direct mail advertising, corporate identification,  public relations,
and interactive marketing are offered to clients.  These services are offered to
clients worldwide on a local, national, pan-regional or global basis. Operations
cover the major  regions  of North  America,  the  United  Kingdom,  Continental
Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, the Far East and Australia.

      Recognition of Commission and Fee Revenue.  Substantially all revenues are
derived from  commissions for placement of  advertisements  in various media and
from  fees  for  manpower  and for  production  of  advertisements.  Revenue  is
generally   recognized  when  billed.   Billings  are  generally  rendered  upon
presentation  date for media, when manpower is used, when costs are incurred for
radio and television production and when print production is completed.

      Principles  of  Consolidation.  The  accompanying  consolidated  financial
statements  include the  accounts of Omnicom  Group Inc.  and its  domestic  and
international   subsidiaries  (the  "Company").   All  significant  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated.

      Restatements  and  Reclassifications.  During 1995, the Company  completed
certain  acquisitions  which were  accounted for under the  pooling-of-interests
method  of  accounting,  as  discussed  in Note 2.  Accordingly,  the  Company's
consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements
include the operating results of these companies for all periods  presented.  On
December 15, 1995, the Company  completed a two-for-one  stock split in the form
of a 100% stock dividend;  as such all prior year balances have been adjusted to
give  retroactive  effect to the split. In addition,  certain prior year amounts
have been reclassified to conform with the 1996 presentation.

      Billable  Production.   Billable  production  orders  in  process  consist
principally  of  costs  incurred  in  producing   advertisements  and  marketing
communications  for clients.  Such amounts are generally  billed to clients when
costs are incurred for radio and television production and when print production
is completed.

      Treasury Stock. The Company accounts for treasury share purchases at cost.
The reissuance of treasury shares is accounted for at the average cost. Gains or
losses on the  reissuance  of treasury  shares are  generally  accounted  for as
additional paid-in capital.

      Foreign  Currency  Translation.  The Company's  financial  statements were
prepared  in  accordance  with  the   requirements  of  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting Standards No. 52, "Foreign Currency  Translation." Under this method,
net  transaction  gains of $1.5  million,  $0.4  million  and $4.0  million  are
included in 1996, 1995 and 1994 net income, respectively.

      Earnings Per Common  Share.  Primary  earnings per share is based upon the
weighted   average  number  of  common  shares  and  common  share   equivalents
outstanding  during each year.  Fully diluted earnings per share is based on the
above and, if dilutive,  adjusted for the assumed  conversion  of the  Company's
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures and the assumed increase in net income for
the after tax interest cost of these debentures. For the year ended December 31,
1996, the 4.5%/6.25% Step-Up Convertible Subordinated Debentures were assumed to
be converted  through  September 5, 1996,  when they were  converted into common
stock. For the year ended December 31, 1995 the 4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up  Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures were assumed to be converted for the full year. For the
year ended December 31, 1994 the  4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up  Convertible  Subordinated
Debentures  were  assumed  to be  converted  for the  full  year;  and the  6.5%
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures were assumed to be converted  through July
27, 1994, when they were converted into common stock.  The number of shares used
in the computations were as follows:

                                         1996           1995            1994
                                         ----           ----            ----
    Primary EPS computation .........  77,071,300     74,375,300     70,764,800
    Fully diluted EPS computation ...  80,747,400     79,913,100     79,925,700

                                      F-7


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

       For purposes of computing fully diluted  earnings per share on net income
and the cumulative  effect of the change in accounting  principle,  for the year
ended December 31, 1994, the Company's Convertible  Subordinated Debentures were
not  reflected  in  the   computations   as  their  inclusion  would  have  been
anti-dilutive.

      Severance  Agreements.   Arrangements  with  certain  present  and  former
employees  provide  for  continuing  payments  for  periods up to 10 years after
cessation of their full-time  employment in consideration  for agreements by the
employees  not to  compete  and  to  render  consulting  services  in  the  post
employment  period.  Such  payments,  which are  determined,  subject to certain
conditions and limitations,  by earnings in subsequent periods,  are expensed in
such periods.

      Depreciation  of Furniture  and Equipment  and  Amortization  of Leasehold
Improvements.  Depreciation  charges are  computed on a  straight-line  basis or
declining  balance  method over the  estimated  useful  lives of  furniture  and
equipment,   up  to  10  years.   Leasehold  improvements  are  amortized  on  a
straight-line  basis  over the lesser of the terms of the  related  lease or the
useful lives of these assets.

      Intangibles. Intangibles represent acquisition costs in excess of the fair
value of tangible net assets of purchased  subsidiaries.  The intangible  values
associated with the Company's  business consist  predominantly of two types: the
value  of the  worldwide  agency  networks  and  the  value  of  ongoing  client
relationships.  The Company's  worldwide agency networks have been operating for
an average of over sixty years and intangibles associated with enhancing network
value are  intended  to  enhance  the long term  value of the  networks.  Client
relationships in the advertising  industry are typically long term in nature and
the  Company's  largest  clients have on average been clients for  approximately
thirty  years.  As such,  intangibles  are  amortized on a  straight-line  basis
principally over a period of forty years. Each year, the intangibles are written
down if, and to the extent, they are determined to be impaired.  Intangibles are
considered  to be impaired  if the future  anticipated  undiscounted  cash flows
arising from the use of the intangibles is less than the net unamortized cost of
the intangibles.

      Deferred  Taxes.  Deferred tax  liabilities and tax benefits relate to the
recognition  of certain  revenues and expenses in different  years for financial
statement and tax purposes and to differences  between the tax and book basis of
assets and liabilities recorded in connection with acquisitions.

      Cash Flows.  The Company's  cash  equivalents  are primarily  comprised of
investments in overnight interest-bearing  deposits,  commercial paper and money
market instruments with original maturity dates of three months or less.

      The following  supplemental schedule summarizes the fair value of non-cash
assets acquired,  cash paid, common shares issued and the liabilities assumed in
conjunction  with the  acquisition  of  equity  interests  in  subsidiaries  and
affiliates, for each of the three years ended December 31:

                                                   (Dollars in thousands)
                                                 1996        1995        1994
                                                 ----        ----        ----
     Fair value of non-cash assets acquired    $401,655    $129,425    $265,865
     Cash paid, net of cash acquired           (178,861)   (118,784)   (150,660)
     Common shares issued                       (33,915)     (3,668)    (13,035)
                                               --------    --------    --------
     Liabilities assumed                       $188,879    $  6,973    $102,170
                                               ========    ========    ========

      During  1996,  the Company  issued  5,238,678  shares of common stock upon
conversion of $143,750,000 of its 4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up  Convertible  Subordinated
Debentures.  During 1994,  the Company issued  7,142,466  shares of common stock
upon conversion of $100 million of its 6.5% Convertible Subordinated Debentures.

      Concentration  of  Credit  Risk.  The  Company  provides  advertising  and
marketing  services  to a wide range of  clients  who  operate in many  industry
sectors around the world.  The Company  grants credit to all qualified  clients,
but does not believe it is exposed to any undue  concentration of credit risk to
any significant degree.

      Derivative Financial Instruments. Derivative financial instruments consist
principally of forward  foreign  exchange  contracts and interest rate swaps. In
order for derivative  financial  instruments to qualify for hedge accounting the
following criteria must be met: (a) the hedging instrument must be designated as
a hedge;  (b) the hedged exposure must be specifically  identifiable  and expose
the Company to risk;  and (c) it must be highly  probable  that a change in fair

                                      F-8


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

value of the derivative  financial instrument and an opposite change in the fair
value of the  hedged  exposure  will  have a high  degree  of  correlation.  The
majority  of the  Company's  derivative  activity  relates  to  forward  foreign
exchange contracts. The Company executes these contracts in the same currency as
the hedged exposure,  whereby 100% correlation is achieved.  Gains and losses on
derivative  financial  instruments  which  are  hedges  of  existing  assets  or
liabilities  are included in the carrying  amount of those assets or liabilities
and are  ultimately  recognized  in  income as part of those  carrying  amounts.
Interest  received  and/or paid arising from swap  agreements  which  qualify as
hedges are  recognized  in income when the  interest is  receivable  or payable.
Derivative financial  instruments which do not qualify as hedges are revalued to
the current  market  rate and any gains or losses are  recorded in income in the
current period.

      Use of Estimates.  The  preparation of financial  statements in conformity
with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and
liabilities and disclosures of contingent  assets and liabilities at the date of
the  financial  statements  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2. Acquisitions

      In  May  1996,   the  Company   completed  the   acquisition   of  Ketchum
Communications Holdings, Inc. ("Ketchum").  The acquisition was accounted for as
a  pooling-of-interests  and  accordingly,  the results of operations of Ketchum
have been included in the  consolidated  financial  statements  since January 1,
1996.  Prior year  consolidated  financial  statements  were not restated as the
impact on such years was not material.  A total of 1,206,853  shares were issued
in connection with this acquisition.

      In  August  1995,  the  Company  completed  the  acquisitions  of Ross Roy
Communications  and Chiat/Day  Holdings.  Both  transactions  were accounted for
under  the  pooling-of-interests  method  of  accounting.  Due to the  aggregate
materiality  of these  acquisitions,  the Company's  financial  statements  were
restated  to  include  the  operating  results  of Ross Roy  Communications  and
Chiat/Day  Holdings for all periods  prior to the  acquisition  date. A total of
2,556,646 shares were issued in connection with these acquisitions.

      During  1996,  the Company  made  several  other  acquisitions  within the
advertising  industry  whose  aggregate  cost,  in  cash or by  issuance  of the
Company's  common stock,  totaled $237.6 million for net assets,  which included
intangible  assets  of $208.2  million.  Due to the  nature  of the  advertising
industry,  companies  acquired  generally have minimal tangible net assets.  The
majority of the purchase price is paid for ongoing client  relationships  and to
enhance the Company's worldwide agency networks and marketing service companies.
Included  in  both  figures  are  contingent  payments  related  to  prior  year
acquisitions totaling $78.7 million. Pro forma combined results of operations of
the  Company as if these  acquisitions  had  occurred  on January 1, 1995 do not
materially  differ from the reported amounts in the  consolidated  statements of
income for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 1996.

      Certain acquisitions entered into in 1996 and prior years require payments
in future years if certain results are achieved.  Formulas for these  contingent
future  payments  differ from  acquisition  to  acquisition.  Contingent  future
payments are not expected to be material to the Company's  results of operations
or financial position.

3. BANK LOANS AND LINES OF CREDIT

      Bank  loans   primarily   comprised  bank   overdrafts  of   international
subsidiaries  which  are  treated  as loans  pursuant  to bank  agreements.  The
weighted average interest rate on the borrowings  outstanding as of December 31,
1996 and 1995 was 6.6% and 6.5%,  respectively.  At December  31, 1996 and 1995,
the Company had unsecured committed lines of credit aggregating $475 million and
$374 million,  respectively. The unused portion of credit lines was $470 million
and $356  million at  December  31,  1996 and 1995,  respectively.  The lines of
credit are generally  extended at the banks'  lending rates to their most credit
worthy  borrowers.  Material  compensating  balances are not required within the
terms of these credit agreements.

      At December 31, 1995, the committed  lines of credit included $250 million
under a three year revolving credit agreement  expiring June 30, 1997. As of May
10, 1996,  the $250 million  revolving  credit  agreement was replaced by a $360
million revolving credit agreement  expiring June 30, 2001. Due to the long term

                                      F-9



                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

nature  of this  credit  agreement,  borrowings  under  the  agreement  would be
classified  as long term debt.  There were no borrowings  under these  revolving
credit agreements at December 31, 1996 and 1995.

      The revolving credit agreements  include a facility for issuing commercial
paper  backed by a bank letter of credit.  During the years ended  December  31,
1996,  1995 and 1994,  the  Company  issued  commercial  paper  with an  average
original  maturity  of 26,  31 and 33 days,  respectively.  The  Company  had no
commercial paper borrowings  outstanding as of December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994.
The maximum outstanding during the year was $230 million,  $210 million and $230
million, in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The gross amount of issuance and
redemption during the year was $1,710 million, $1,211 million and $1,587 million
in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

4. EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS

      Under the terms of the  Company's  1987 Stock Plan,  as amended (the "1987
Plan"),  13,100,000 shares of common stock of the Company have been reserved for
restricted stock awards and non-qualified  stock options to key employees of the
Company.  The remaining number of such reserved shares was 2,629,000 at December
31, 1996.

      Stock Options.  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards ("SFAS") No.
123,  "Accounting for Stock Based  Compensation," is effective for the Company's
fiscal year ended  December 31, 1996.  As permitted by SFAS No. 123, the Company
intends to continue to apply the  accounting  provisions  of APB Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting  for  Stock  Issued  to  Employees,"  and to make  annual  pro forma
disclosures  of the effect of adopting the fair value method of  accounting  for
employee stock options and similar  instruments.  During the initial  periods of
disclosure,  the effects on net income may not be  representative of the effects
in future years due to the transitional provisions included in SFAS No. 123.

      Under the terms of the 1987 Plan,  the  option  price may not be less than
100% of the market value of the stock at the date of the grant.  Options  become
exercisable  30% on each of the first two  anniversary  dates of the grant  date
with the final 40% becoming exercisable three years from the grant date.

      A summary of the status of the  Company's  stock option plan for the three
years ended December 31, 1996 is as follows:

                                                      

      The weighted  average fair value of options  granted  during 1996 and 1995
was $9.30 and $6.79 per  option,  respectively.  The fair  value of each  option
grant has been  estimated  on the date of grant using the  Black-Scholes  option
pricing model with the following assumptions:

                                                      1996             1995
                                                      ----             ----   
      Expected option lives....................      5 years          5 years
      Risk free interest rate..................   5.64% - 5.99%    5.95% - 7.14%
      Expected volatility......................   18.8% - 19.5%    20.9% - 25.7%
      Dividend yield...........................       1.7%             2.2%

                                      F-10


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      Using  compensation  cost for the Company's stock option plan,  determined
based on the estimated fair value at the grant date for options  granted in 1996
and 1995  consistent  with the  provisions  of SFAS No.  123,  the effect on the
Company's net income and income per share would have been as follows:

                                                           Dollars in Thousands
                                                           Except Per Share Data
                                                          ----------------------
                                                            1996         1995
                                                            ----         ----
    Net income, as reported...........................    $176,329      $139,955
    Net income, pro forma.............................     172,849       138,570
    Primary income per share, as reported.............      2.29          1.89
    Primary income per share, pro forma...............      2.25          1.87
    Fully diluted income per share, as reported.......      2.25          1.85
    Fully diluted income per share, pro forma.........      2.21          1.83

      The following table summarizes  information about options  outstanding and
options exercisable at December 31, 1996:



      Restricted   Shares.  A  summary  of  changes  in  outstanding  shares  of
restricted stock for the three years ended December 31, 1996 is as follows:

                                              Years Ended December 31,
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                       1996             1995             1994
                                       ----             ----             ----
     Beginning balance ...........  1,647,000        1,564,164        1,480,872
       Amount granted ............    568,308          612,168          629,160
       Amount vested .............   (515,112)        (490,422)        (461,206)
       Amount forfeited ..........    (42,438)         (38,910)         (84,662)
                                    ---------        ---------        ---------
     Ending balance ..............  1,657,758        1,647,000        1,564,164
                                    =========        =========        =========

      All restricted shares granted under the 1987 Plan were sold at a price per
share  equal to their par value.  The  difference  between  par value and market
value  on the date of the  sale is  charged  to  shareholders'  equity  and then
amortized to expense over the period of  restriction.  Under the 1987 Plan,  the
restricted  shares become  transferable to the employee in 20% annual increments
provided the employee remains in the employ of the Company.

      Restricted  shares  may not be sold,  transferred,  pledged  or  otherwise
encumbered until the restrictions lapse. Under most circumstances,  the employee
must  resell  the  shares to the  Company  at par value if the  employee  ceases
employment prior to the end of the period of restriction.

      The charge to operations in connection with these  restricted stock awards
for the years ended December 31, 1996,  1995 and 1994 amounted to $13.9 million,
$10.7 million and $9.5 million, respectively.

                                      F-11


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

5. Segment Reporting

      The  Company  operates   advertising   agencies  and  offers  its  clients
additional marketing services and specialty advertising through its wholly-owned
and  partially-owned  businesses.  A  summary  of the  Company's  operations  by
geographic  area as of December 31, 1996,  1995 and 1994, and for the years then
ended is presented below:


6. Investments in Affiliates

      The Company has in excess of 65  unconsolidated  affiliates  accounted for
under the equity  method.  The  equity  method is used when the  Company  has an
ownership  of less  than  50%  and  exercises  significant  influence  over  the
operating  and  financial  policies  of  the  affiliate.   The  following  table
summarizes   the  balance   sheets  and  income   statements  of  the  Company's
unconsolidated  affiliates,  primarily  in  Europe,  Australia  and Asia,  as of
December 31, 1996, 1995, 1994, and for the years then ended:


      The decrease in the summarized balance sheets and income statements of the
Company's unconsolidated  affiliates in 1996 is due to the sale of the Company's
minority  interest  in Aegis  Group plc,  partially  offset by the growth of the
Company's existing equity affiliates.  The Company's equity in the net income of
these affiliates amounted to $20.5 million,  $20.8 million and $18.3 million for
1996,  1995 and 1994,  respectively.  The  Company's  equity in the net tangible
assets of these  affiliated  companies was  approximately  $97.5 million,  $76.7

                                      F-12


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

million and $65.8  million at December  31, 1996,  1995 and 1994,  respectively.
Included in the Company's investments in affiliates is the excess of acquisition
costs  over the  fair  value of  tangible  net  assets  acquired.  These  excess
acquisition  costs are amortized on a  straight-line  basis  principally  over a
period of forty years.


7. Long-Term Debt

      Long-term  debt  outstanding as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 consisted of
the following:


      On July 12,  1996,  the  Company  issued a Notice  of  Redemption  for its
4.5%/6.25% Step-Up Convertible Subordinated Debentures with a scheduled maturity
in 2000. Prior to the September 5, 1996 redemption  date, the debenture  holders
elected to convert all of their outstanding  debentures into common stock of the
Company at a conversion price of $27.44 per common share.

      On March 1, 1996,  the Company issued  Deutsche Mark 100 million  Floating
Rate Bonds. The bonds are unsecured,  unsubordinated  obligations of the Company
and bear  interest at a per annum rate equal to Deutsche  Mark three month LIBOR
plus 0.375%. The bonds will mature on March 1, 1999 and will be repaid at par.

      On January 4, 1995,  an indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company
issued Deutsche Mark 200 million  Floating Rate Bonds.  The bonds are unsecured,
unsubordinated obligations of the issuer and are unconditionally and irrevocably
guaranteed  by the Company.  The bonds bear interest at a rate equal to Deutsche
Mark  three  month  LIBOR plus  0.65% and may be  redeemed  at the option of the
issuer on January  5, 1997 or any  interest  payment  date  thereafter  at their
principal amount plus any accrued but unpaid interest.  Unless redeemed earlier,
the bonds will mature on January 5, 2000 and will be repaid at par.

      On June 1, 1994,  the Company  issued a Notice of Redemption  for its $100
million 6.5% Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures with a scheduled  maturity in
2004. Prior to the July 27, 1994 redemption date, the debenture  holders elected
to convert all of their outstanding  debentures into common stock of the Company
at a conversion price of $14.00 per common share.

      On May 10, 1996, the $250 million  revolving credit agreement was replaced
by a $360 million revolving credit agreement. This $360 million revolving credit
agreement  is with a  consortium  of banks and  expires on June 30,  2001.  This
credit  agreement  includes a facility for issuing  commercial paper backed by a
bank  letter of credit.  The  agreement  contains  certain  financial  covenants
regarding the ratio of total  consolidated  indebtedness  to total  consolidated
capitalization,  the ratio of debt to cash flow, and a limitation on investments
in and loans to affiliates and unconsolidated subsidiaries. At December 31, 1996
the Company was in compliance with these covenants.

                                      F-13


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      Aggregate  maturities  of  long-term  debt in the next  five  years are as
follows:
                                                          (Dollars in Thousands)

           1997.............................................    $  4,160
           1998.............................................       5,363
           1999.............................................      67,468
           2000.............................................     130,595
           2001.............................................         415

8. Income Taxes

      Income before income taxes and the provision for taxes on income consisted
of the amounts shown below:



      The Company's  effective income tax rate varied from the statutory federal
income tax rate as a result of the following factors:


      Deferred  income taxes are provided for the temporary  difference  between
the  financial  reporting  basis  and tax  basis  of the  Company's  assets  and
liabilities.  Deferred tax benefits result  principally  from recording  certain
expenses in the financial  statements which are not currently deductible for tax
purposes  and from  differences  between  the tax and book  basis of assets  and
liabilites  recorded in connection with  acquisitions.  Deferred tax liabilities
result  principally  from  expenses  which  are  currently  deductible  for  tax
purposes, but have not yet been expensed in the financial statements.

                                      F-14


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      The Company has recorded deferred tax benefits as of December 31, 1996 and
1995 of $139.0 million and $125.1 million, respectively,  related principally to
tax  deductible  intangibles,  restricted  stock  amortization,   severance  and
compensation, leases and accrued expenses.

      The Company has recorded  deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 1996
and 1995 of $38.5 million and $33.2 million,  respectively,  related principally
to furniture and equipment depreciation and tax lease recognition.

      Deferred  tax  benefits  (liabilities)  as of  December  31, 1996 and 1995
consisted of the amounts shown below (dollars in millions):

                                                           1996         1995
                                                           ----         ----
      Deductible intangibles.........................     $ 46.5        $37.9
      Acquisition liabilities........................       15.9         16.1
      Lease reserves.................................        8.4          8.3
      Severance and compensation reserves............       26.9         28.8
      Tax loss carryforwards.........................        3.8          6.0
      Amortization and depreciation..................       (2.9)        (2.3)
      Other, net.....................................        1.9         (2.9)
                                                           -----        -----
                                                          $100.5        $91.9
                                                          ======        =====

      Net current  deferred  tax  benefits as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 were
$20.7  million and $21.7  million,  respectively,  and were  included in prepaid
expenses and other current assets.  Net non-current  deferred tax benefits as of
December 31, 1996 and 1995 were $79.8 million and $70.2  million,  respectively.
The Company has  concluded  that it is probable  that it will be able to realize
these net deferred tax benefits in future periods.

      A provision has been made for additional  income and withholding  taxes on
the  earnings  of  international   subsidiaries  and  affiliates  that  will  be
distributed.

9. Employee Retirement Plans

      The Company's  international and domestic  subsidiaries provide retirement
benefits for their  employees  primarily  through  defined  contribution  plans.
Company  contributions  to the  plans,  which are  determined  by the  boards of
directors  of the  subsidiaries,  have been in  amounts  up to 15% (the  maximum
amount   deductible   for  federal   income  tax  purposes)  of  total  eligible
compensation of participating  employees.  Expenses  associated with these plans
amounted to $49.8  million,  $41.7 million and $36.6  million in 1996,  1995 and
1994, respectively.

      The Company's pension plans are primarily  international.  These plans are
not  required  to report  to  governmental  agencies  pursuant  to the  Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Substantially all of these plans
are funded by fixed  premium  payments to insurance  companies  which  undertake
legal  obligations  to provide  specific  benefits to the  individuals  covered.
Pension expense amounted to $4.6 million, $4.4 million and $0.8 million in 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively.

      Certain  subsidiaries  of the Company have executive  retirement  programs
under which benefits will be paid to participants or their beneficiaries over 15
years  beginning  at age 65 or  death.  In  addition,  other  subsidiaries  have
individual  deferred  compensation  arrangements  with certain  executives which
provide for payments over varying terms upon retirement, cessation of employment
or death.

      Some of the Company's  domestic  subsidiaries  provide life  insurance and
medical  benefits  for  retired  employees.  Eligibility  requirements  vary  by
subsidiary,  but generally include  attainment of a specified  combined age plus
years of service factor.  The expense related to these benefits was not material
to the 1996, 1995 and 1994 consolidated results of operations.

                                      F-15


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)


10. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities

      At December 31, 1996, the Company was committed  under  operating  leases,
principally  for office  space.  Certain  leases are subject to rent reviews and
require payment of expenses under  escalation  clauses.  Rent expense was $201.1
million  in 1996,  $169.1  million  in 1995 and  $152.6  million  in 1994  after
reduction by rents received from  subleases of $11.9 million,  $11.1 million and
$10.2  million,   respectively.   Future  minimum  base  rents  under  terms  of
noncancellable  operating leases,  reduced by rents to be received from existing
noncancellable subleases, are as follows:


      The  present   value  of  the  gross  future   minimum  base  rents  under
noncancellable operating leases is $792.3 million.
      Where appropriate,  management has established reserves for the difference
between the cost of leased premises that were vacated and  anticipated  sublease
income.
      The Company is involved in various routine legal proceedings incidental to
the ordinary  course of its business.  The Company  believes that the outcome of
all pending legal  proceedings  and unasserted  claims in the aggregate will not
have a  material  adverse  effect on its  results  of  operations,  consolidated
financial position or liquidity.

11. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

      The  following  table  presents the carrying  amounts and  estimated  fair
values of the  Company's  financial  instruments  at December 31, 1996 and 1995.
Amounts in parentheses represent liabilities.



      The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial  instruments  for which it is practicable to estimate
that value:

Cash equivalents and investments available-for-sale:

      Cash equivalents and investments available-for-sale consist principally of
investments in short-term,  interest bearing instruments and are carried at fair
market value, which approximates cost.

Long-term investments:

      Included in deferred  charges and other assets are  long-term  investments
carried at cost, which approximates estimated fair value.

                                      F-16


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Long-term debt:

      The majority of the Company's  long-term  debt is primarily  floating rate
debt and consequently the carrying amount approximates fair value.

      In  1995,  the  fair  value  of  the  Company's  long-term  debt  included
convertible subordinated debentures.  The fair value was determined by reference
to quotations available in markets where that issue was traded. These quotations
primarily  reflected the conversion  value of the debentures  into the Company's
common  stock.  These  debentures  were  redeemed by the Company  during 1996 as
described in Note 7.

Financial Commitments:

      The estimated fair value of derivative positions are based upon quotations
received  from  independent,  third  party  banks and  represent  the net amount
required to terminate the position,  taking into consideration  market rates and
counterparty  credit risk. The fair value of guarantees,  principally related to
affiliated  companies,  and  letters of credit were based upon the face value of
the underlying instruments.

12.  Financial Instruments and Market Risk

      The Company utilizes  derivative  financial  instruments  predominantly to
reduce certain market risks to which the Company is exposed.  These market risks
primarily  consist of the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on assets
and  liabilities  of non-U.S.  operations  and the impact of changes in interest
rates on debt.  The Company's  derivative  activities  are limited in volume and
confined  to  risk  management  activities.  Senior  management  at the  Company
actively  participate  in the  quantification,  monitoring  and  control  of all
significant  risks. A reporting system is in place which evaluates the impact on
the  Company's  earnings  resulting  from  changes in interest  rates,  currency
exchange  rates and other  relevant  market risks.  This system is structured to
enable senior  management to initiate  prompt remedial  action,  if appropriate.
Adequate  segregation of duties exists with regard to the  execution,  recording
and monitoring of derivative activities. Additionally, senior management reports
periodically  to the  Audit  Committee  of the  Board  of  Directors  concerning
derivative   activities.   Since  1993,  the  Audit  Committee  has  established
limitations  on  derivative  activities.  These  limitations  have been reviewed
annually,  most recently on March 20, 1997. The Audit Committee has reconfirmed,
for the year 1997,  the overall  dollar  limitations  originally  established in
1993.

      There were no swap agreements outstanding at December 31, 1996.

      At December 31, 1995 the following swap agreements were outstanding:


      The $75 million  swap related to a portion of the  Company's  intercompany
interest  cash flows.  The DM 76.6 million  (approximately  $53.3 million at the
December 31, 1995 exchange rate) and the $10 million swap agreements converted a
portion of the Company's  floating  rate debt to a fixed rate.  These swaps were
terminated during 1996 at a $23 thousand charge to income.

      The Company enters into forward foreign exchange  contracts  predominantly
to hedge intercompany  receivables and payables which are recorded in a currency
different  from  that in which  they  will  settle.  Gains  and  losses on these
positions  are  deferred  and  included  in the  basis of the  transaction  upon
settlement.  The terms of these contracts are generally three months or less. At
December 31, 1996 and 1995, the aggregate amount of intercompany receivables and
payables  subject to this  hedge  program  was $287  million  and $306  million,
respectively.  The  table  below  summarizes  by  major  currency  the  notional
principal   amounts  of  the  Company's   forward  foreign  exchange   contracts
outstanding at December 31, 1996 and 1995. The "buy" amounts  represent the U.S.
dollar  equivalent of commitments to purchase the respective  currency,  and the
"sell" amounts  represent the U.S. dollar  equivalent of commitments to sell the
respective currency.

                                      F-17


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



      The derivative financial instruments existing during December 31, 1996 and
1995 were entered into for the purpose of hedging certain specific  currency and
interest rate risks.  As a result of these  financial  instruments,  the Company
reduced  financial  risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) which might
have  occurred if the markets moved  favorably.  In using  derivative  financial
instruments,  management  exchanged  the  risks  of the  financial  markets  for
counterparty  risk.  In order to minimize  counterparty  risk the  Company  only
enters into contracts with major well-known banks that have credit ratings equal
to  or  better  than  the  Company's.   Additionally,  these  contracts  contain
provisions for net settlement. As such, the contracts settle based on the spread
between the currency rates and interest rates contained in the contracts and the
current market rates. This minimizes the risk of an insolvent counterparty being
unable to pay the Company the notional principal amount owed to the Company and,
at the same  time,  having  the  creditors  of the  counterparty  demanding  the
notional principal amount from the Company.


13.  Adoption of New Accounting Principles

      Effective  January 1, 1994, the Company adopted SFAS No. 112,  "Employers'
Accounting for Postemployment  Benefits".  This statement establishes accounting
standards  for employers  who provide  benefits to former or inactive  employees
after  employment  but  before  retirement  (referred  to in this  statement  as
"postemployment  benefits").  Those  benefits  include,  but are not limited to,
salary continuation,  supplemental  unemployment  benefits,  severance benefits,
disability-related  benefits,  job training and counseling,  and continuation of
benefits  such  as  health  care  benefits  and  life  insurance  coverage.  The
cumulative  after tax  effect of the  adoption  of SFAS No.  112  resulted  in a
reduction to net income of $28 million.

      Effective  January  1,  1994,  the  Company  also  adopted  SFAS No.  115,
"Accounting  for  Certain  Investments  in Debt  and  Equity  Securities".  This
Statement  addresses the  accounting  and reporting  for  investments  in equity
securities that have readily determinable fair values and for all investments in
debt securities.  In compliance with SFAS No. 115, the Company  classifies these
investments  as  investments  available-for-sale.  At  December  31,  1996,  the
Company's  investments  consisted  principally  of time deposits with  financial
institutions.  These  investments,  with  scheduled  maturities of less than one
year,  are valued at  estimated  fair  value,  which  approximates  cost.  These
investments  are  generally  redeemed at face value upon  maturity and, as such,
gains or losses on disposition are immaterial.  There are no material unrealized
holding gains or losses as of December 31, 1996.

                                      F-18


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)


      In February  1997,  the FASB issued  SFAS No. 128,  "Earnings  per Share".
Under SFAS No. 128, the  presentation of Primary and Fully Diluted  Earnings Per
Share will be replaced by Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share. Adoption of SFAS
No. 128 is required for periods  ending after  December 15, 1997,  at which time
restatement for prior periods will be necessary.  Had the provisions of SFAS No.
128 been in effect as of December 31, 1996,  the Company would have reported the
following earnings per share information:


14. Subsequent Event

       On January 3, 1997, the Company issued  $218,500,000 of 41/4% Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures  with a scheduled  maturity in 2007. The debentures are
convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion price of $63.00 per
share subject to adjustment in certain events.  Debenture holders have the right
to require the Company to redeem the debentures on January 3, 2003 at a price of
112.418%,  or upon the  occurrence  of a Fundamental  Change,  as defined in the
indenture agreement,  at the prevailing redemption price. The Company may redeem
the  debentures,  as a whole or in part, on or after December 29, 2000 initially
at 108.324% and at increasing  prices  thereafter  to 112.418%  until January 2,
2003  and 100%  thereafter.  Unless  the  debentures  are  redeemed,  repaid  or
converted prior thereto,  the debentures will mature on January 3, 2007 at their
principal  amount.  The  proceeds  of this  issuance  are being used for general
corporate purposes including working capital.

                                      F-19


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

      The  following  table  sets  forth a summary  of the  unaudited  quarterly
results of  operations  for the two years ended  December 31, 1996 and 1995,  in
thousands of dollars except for per share amounts.  As discussed in the notes to
consolidated financial statements, information for the first quarter of 1996 has
been  restated  from  the  amounts  originally  reported  as  a  result  of  the
acquisition  of Ketchum  Communications  Holdings,  Inc.  during  1996 which was
accounted  for under the  pooling  of  interests  method  of  accounting.  Also,
information for the first and second quarters of 1995 has been restated from the
amounts  originally  reported  as a result of certain  acquisitions  during 1995
which were accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting. In
addition,  the first,  second and third  quarters of 1995 have been  restated to
give retroactive  effect to a two-for-one  stock split completed on December 15,
1995.



                                      F-20

                                                                     Schedule II

                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                   For the Three Years Ended December 31, 1996


- ----------
(1)  Net of  acquisition  date  balances in allowance  for doubtful  accounts of
     companies  acquired  of $985,  $463 and  $1,330  in 1996,  1995,  and 1994,
     respectively.

(2)  Information for 1994 has been restated from the amounts originally reported
     for certain  acquisitions  during 1995 which were  accounted  for under the
     pooling of interests method of accounting.

                                      S-1

