
10-K
ANNUAL REPORT



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                              --------------------
                                   FORM 10-K

                                 ANNUAL REPORT

                     Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                        Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended: December 31, 1993    Commission File Number: 1-10551

                              --------------------

                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                New York                                13-1514814
   (State or other jurisdiction of         (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    incorporation or organization)

   437 Madison Avenue, New York, NY                         10022
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 415-3600

          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange
        Title of each class                            on which registered
        -------------------                            -------------------
   Common Stock, $.50 Par Value                      New York Stock Exchange

        Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X   No
                                              ---     ---

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  registrant's   knowledge,  in  the  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. (X)

     At  March  15,  1994,   there  were  33,196,570   shares  of  Common  Stock
outstanding;   the   aggregate   market  value  of  the  voting  stock  held  by
nonaffiliates at March 15, 1994 was approximately $1,576,200,000.

     Indicate  the  number of  shares  outstanding  of each of the  registrant's
classes of stock, as of the latest practicable date.

                Class                           Outstanding at March 15, 1994
   Common Stock, $.50 Par Value                          33,196,570
 Preferred Stock, $1.00 Par Value                           NONE

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain portions of the Registrant's  definitive proxy statement relating to its
annual  meeting  of  shareholders  scheduled  to be  held on May  24,  1994  are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.
                               ------------------
                      Index to Annual Report on Form 10-K
                          Year Ended December 31, 1993


      The  information  called for by Items 10, 11, 12 and 13, to the extent not
included  in  this  document,  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  such
information  to  be  included  under  the  captions   "Election  of  Directors,"
"Executive  Compensation,"  "Directors'  Compensation" and "Certain Transactions
with  Management" in the Company's  definitive proxy statement which is expected
to be filed by April 8, 1994.

PART IV





                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

     Omnicom  Group  Inc.,  through  its  wholly and  partially-owned  companies
(hereinafter  collectively  referred to as the "Agency" or "Company"),  operates
advertising  agencies  which  plan,  create,  produce and place  advertising  in
various media such as television,  radio,  newspaper and  magazines.  The Agency
offers its clients such additional services as marketing consultation,  consumer
market  research,  design and production of  merchandising  and sales  promotion
programs and materials, direct mail advertising,  corporate identification,  and
public  relations.  The Agency offers these  services to clients  worldwide on a
local,  national,  pan-regional  or  global  basis.  Operations  cover the major
regions of North America,  the United Kingdom,  Continental  Europe,  the Middle
East, Africa, Latin America, the Far East and Australia.  In both 1993 and 1992,
52% of the Agency's billings came from its non-U.S.  operations. (See "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data")

      According to the unaudited  industry-wide  figures  published in the trade
journal,  Advertising  Age, in 1993  Omnicom  Group Inc. was ranked as the third
largest advertising agency group worldwide.

      The Agency operates three separate,  independent agency networks: The BBDO
Worldwide Network,  the DDB Needham Worldwide Network and the TBWA International
Network. The Agency also operates independent agencies,  Altschiller  Reitzfeld,
and Goodby, Berlin and Silverstein,  and certain marketing service and specialty
advertising companies through Diversified Agency Services ("DAS").

The BBDO Worldwide, DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International Networks

General

      BBDO  Worldwide,   DDB  Needham  Worldwide  and  TBWA  International,   by
themselves   and  through  their   respective   subsidiaries   and   affiliates,
independently  operate  advertising  agency  networks  worldwide.  Their primary
business is to create  marketing  communications  for their  clients'  goods and
services across the total spectrum of advertising and promotion  media.  Each of
the agency networks has its own clients and competes with each other in the same
markets.

      The BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International agencies
typically  assign to each client a group of  advertising  specialists  which may
include account  managers,  copywriters,  art directors and research,  media and
production personnel.  The account manager works with the client to establish an
overall advertising strategy for the client based on an analysis of the client's
products or services and its market. The group then creates and arranges for the
production of the  advertising  and/or  promotion and purchases  time,  space or
access in the relevant media in accordance with the client's budget.

BBDO Worldwide Network

      The BBDO  Worldwide  Network  operates in the United  States  through BBDO
Worldwide which is headquartered in New York and has full-service offices in Los
Angeles and San Francisco,  California;  Atlanta,  Georgia;  Chicago,  Illinois;
Detroit, Michigan; and Minneapolis, Minnesota.

      The BBDO Worldwide Network operates  internationally  through subsidiaries
in Austria,  Belgium,  Brazil, Canada, Finland,  France,  Germany,  Greece, Hong
Kong, Italy, Malaysia,  Mexico, the Netherlands,  Peru, Poland, Portugal, Puerto
Rico,  Russia,  Singapore,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Taiwan and the United
Kingdom; and through affiliates located in Argentina, Australia, Chile, Croatia,
the Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, El Salvador,  Guatemala,  Honduras, Hungary,
India, Lebanon, Kuwait, New Zealand,  Norway, Panama, the Philippines,  Romania,
Saudi Arabia, the Slovak Republic,  Sweden,  Turkey, the United Kingdom,  United
Arab Emirates,  Uruguay, and Venezuela;  and through joint ventures in China and
Japan.  The BBDO  Worldwide  Network uses the services of associate  agencies in
Colombia, Ecuador, Indonesia, Korea, Pakistan and Thailand.

DDB Needham Worldwide Network

      The DDB Needham  Worldwide  Network  operates in the United States through
DDB Needham  Worldwide which is  headquartered  in New York and has full-service
offices in Los Angeles,  California;  Dallas, Texas; Honolulu,  Hawaii; Chicago,
Illinois; and Seattle, Washington.





      The  DDB  Needham  Worldwide  Network  operates   internationally  through
subsidiaries in Australia,  Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic,
Denmark,  France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Poland,  Portugal,  Singapore,  the Slovak
Republic, Spain, Sweden, Thailand and the United Kingdom; and through affiliates
located in Brazil,  Estonia,  Finland,  Germany,  India,  Korea,  Malaysia,  the
Philippines, Switzerland, Taiwan and Thailand. The DDB Needham Worldwide Network
uses the services of associate  agencies in Argentina,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa
Rica,  Egypt,  Indonesia,  Ireland,  Peru,  Saudi  Arabia,  Turkey,  United Arab
Emirates, Venezuela and in Denver, Colorado.

TBWA International Network

      The TBWA International  Network operates in the United States through TBWA
Advertising  which is  headquartered  in New York and through TBWA Switzer Wolfe
Advertising in St. Louis, Missouri.

      The  TBWA   International   Network   operates   internationally   through
subsidiaries  in  Belgium,  France,  Germany,  Italy,  the  Netherlands,  Spain,
Switzerland,  and the United Kingdom; and through affiliates located in Denmark,
South  Africa and Sweden.  The TBWA  International  Network uses the services of
associate agencies in Austria,  Canada,  Finland,  Greece, Japan, Korea, Mexico,
Norway, Portugal and Turkey.

Diversified Agency Services

      DAS is the Company's Marketing Services and Specialty Advertising division
whose agencies'  mission is to provide customer driven marketing  communications
coordinated to the client's  benefit.  The division  offers  marketing  services
including sales  promotion,  public  relations,  direct and database  marketing,
corporate and brand identity, graphic arts, merchandising/point-of-purchase; and
specialty   advertising   including   financial,   healthcare  and   recruitment
advertising.

      DAS agencies headquartered in the United States include:  Harrison,  Star,
Wiener & Beitler, Inc., The Schechter Group, Inc., Kallir,  Philips, Ross, Inc.,
RC Communications, Inc., Merkley Newman Harty Inc. and Lavey/Wolff/Swift,  Inc.,
in New York; Doremus & Company, Gavin Anderson & Company Worldwide, Inc., Porter
Novelli, Inc., Bernard Hodes Advertising, Inc., and Rapp Collins Worldwide Inc.,
all in various cities and  headquartered in New York;  Baxter,  Gurian & Mazzei,
Inc.,  in  Beverly  Hills,  California;  Frank J.  Corbett,  Inc.,  in  Chicago,
Illinois;  Thomas A.  Schutz  Co.,  Inc. in Morton  Grove,  Illinois;  Rainoldi,
Kerzner & Radcliffe, Inc. in San Francisco,  California and Alcone Sims O'Brien,
Inc., in Irvine, California and Mahwah, New Jersey.

      DAS operates in the United  Kingdom  through  subsidiaries  which  include
Countrywide   Communications  Group  Ltd.,  CPM  Field  Marketing  Ltd.,  Granby
Marketing Services Ltd., Headway, Home and Law Publishing Group Ltd., Interbrand
Ltd.,  Product Plus London Ltd.,  Specialist  Publications  (UK) Ltd., The Anvil
Consultancy Ltd. and Colour Solutions Ltd.

      In addition, DAS operates internationally with subsidiaries and affiliates
in Australia,  Belgium,  Canada,  France,  Germany,  Hong Kong, Ireland,  Italy,
Japan, Mexico, Scotland, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.

Omnicom Group Inc.

      As the parent  company of BBDO  Worldwide,  DDB  Needham  Worldwide,  TBWA
International,  the  DAS  Group,  Goodby,  Berlin  and  Silverstein,  Inc.,  and
Altschiller Reitzfeld,  Inc., the Company,  through its wholly-owned  subsidiary
Omnicom Management Inc., provides a common financial and administrative base for
the operating groups.  The Company oversees the operations of each group through
regular meetings with their respective  top-level  management.  The Company sets
operational goals for each of the groups and evaluates  performance  through the
review of monthly  operational and financial  reports.  The Company provides its
groups with centralized  services designed to coordinate financial reporting and
controls,  real estate planning and to focus corporate  development  objectives.
The Company develops  consolidated  services for its agencies and their clients.
For example,  the Company  participated in forming The Media Partnership,  which
consolidates  certain media buying  activities in Europe in order to obtain cost
savings for clients.






Clients

     The clients of the Agency include major  industrial,  financial and service
industry  companies  as well as smaller,  local  clients.  Among its clients are
Anheuser-Busch,  Apple Computer,  Chrysler Corporation,  Delta Airlines, General
Mills,  Gillette,  GTE,  Henkel,  McDonald's,  PepsiCo.,  Volkswagen and The Wm.
Wrigley Jr. Company.

      The Agency's ten largest clients  accounted for  approximately 18% of 1993
billings.  The majority of these have been clients for more than ten years.  The
Agency's largest client accounted for less than 5% of 1993 billings.

Revenues

      Commissions  charged on media  billings are the primary source of revenues
for the Agency.  Commission  rates are not uniform and are  negotiated  with the
client. In accordance with industry  practice,  the media source typically bills
the Agency for the time or space  purchased  and the Agency bills its client for
this amount plus the commission.  The Agency typically requires that payment for
media charges be received  from the client  before the Agency makes  payments to
the  media.  In some  instances  a  member  of the  Omnicom  Group,  like  other
advertising  agencies,  is at risk in the event that its client is unable to pay
the media.

     The Agency's  advertising  networks also generate revenues in arranging for
the production of advertisements and commercials. Although, as a general matter,
the Agency  does not itself  produce the  advertisements  and  commercials,  the
Agency's  creative and  production  staff directs and  supervises the production
company. The Agency bills the client for production costs plus a commission.  In
some circumstances, certain production work is done by the Agency's personnel.

      In  some  cases,  fees  are  generated  in lieu  of  commissions.  Several
different fee  arrangements  are used depending on client and individual  agency
needs. In general,  fee charges relate to the cost of providing  services plus a
markup. The DAS Group primarily charges fees for its various specialty services,
which  vary in type and  scale,  depending  upon the  service  rendered  and the
client's requirements.

      Advertising agency revenues are dependent upon the marketing  requirements
of clients  and tend to be highest  in the  second  and fourth  quarters  of the
fiscal year.

Other Information

      For additional  information  concerning the  contribution of international
operations  to  commissions  and fees and net  income see Note 5 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

      The  Agency is  continuously  developing  new  methods  of  improving  its
research capabilities, to analyze specific client requirements and to assess the
impact of  advertising.  In the United States,  approximately  136 people on the
Agency's  staff were  employed  in  research  during  the year and the  Agency's
domestic  research  expenses  approximated  $13,137,000.  Substantially all such
expenses were incurred in connection with contemporaneous servicing of clients.

      The  advertising  business is highly  competitive  and  accounts may shift
agencies with  comparative  ease,  usually on 90 days' notice.  Clients may also
reduce  advertising  budgets at any time for any reason.  An agency's ability to
compete for new clients is affected in some instances by the policy,  which many
advertisers  follow,  of not permitting their agencies to represent  competitive
accounts in the same market. As a result,  increasing size may limit an agency's
potential  for  securing  certain new  clients.  In the vast  majority of cases,
however,  the separate,  independent  identities of BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham
Worldwide and TBWA  International  and the  independent  agencies within the DAS
Group have enabled the Agency to represent competing clients.

      BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham  Worldwide,  TBWA  International  and the DAS
Group have sought, and as part of the Agency's operating segments will seek, new
business by showing potential clients examples of advertising campaigns produced
and by explaining the variety of related services  offered.  The Agency competes
in the United  States and abroad  with a multitude  of full  service and special
service  agencies.  In  addition to the usual  risks of the  advertising  agency
business,  international operations are subject to the risk of currency exchange
fluctuations,  exchange  control  restrictions  and to actions  of  governmental
authorities.






Employees

      The  business  success of the Agency is, and will  continue to be,  highly
dependent  upon the skills and creativity of its creative,  research,  media and
account personnel and their relationships with clients.  The Agency believes its
operating  groups have  established  reputations  for  creativity  and marketing
expertise  which  attract,  retain and stimulate  talented  personnel.  There is
substantial  competition among advertising  agencies for talented  personnel and
all  agencies  are  vulnerable  to  adverse  consequences  from  the loss of key
individuals. Employees are generally not under employment contracts and are free
to move to competitors of the Agency. The Company believes that its compensation
arrangements  for its key  employees,  which include stock  options,  restricted
stock  and  retirement  plans,  are  highly  competitive  with  those  of  other
advertising   agencies.   As  of  December  31,  1993,  the  Agency,   excluding
unconsolidated  companies,  employed  approximately  14,400  persons,  of  which
approximately  6,100 were employed in the United States and approximately  8,300
were employed in its international offices.

Government Regulation

      The advertising business is subject to government regulation,  both within
and outside the United States.  In the United States,  federal,  state and local
governments  and their  agencies and various  consumer  groups have  directly or
indirectly  affected  or  attempted  to affect the scope,  content and manner of
presentation  of  advertising.  The  continued  activity  by  government  and by
consumer  groups  regarding  advertising  may cause  further  change in domestic
advertising  practices  in the  coming  years.  While the  Company  is unable to
estimate  the  effect of these  developments  on its U.S.  business,  management
believes the total volume of  advertising  in general media in the United States
will not be materially  reduced due to future  legislation or  regulation,  even
though the form,  content,  and manner of  presentation  of  advertising  may be
modified.  In addition,  the Company will continue to assure that its management
and  operating  personnel  are  aware  of and  are  responsive  to the  possible
implications of such developments.

Item 2.  Properties

      Substantially all of the Company's offices are located in leased premises.
The Company has continued a program to consolidate  leased premises.  Management
has obtained  subleases  for most of the premises  vacated.  Where  appropriate,
management has established  reserves for the difference  between the cost of the
leased premises that were vacated and anticipated sublease income.

Domestic

     The Company's  corporate  office occupies  approximately  25,000 sq. ft. of
space at 437 Madison  Avenue,  New York,  New York under a lease expiring in the
year 2010.

      BBDO  Worldwide  occupies  approximately  265,000 sq. ft. of space at 1285
Avenue of the Americas,  New York,  New York under a lease  expiring in the year
2012, which includes options for additional growth of the agency.

      DDB Needham Worldwide occupies  approximately  211,000 sq. ft. of space at
437 Madison  Avenue,  New York, New York under leases expiring in the year 2010,
which include options for additional growth of the agency.

      TBWA International  occupies  approximately 51,000 sq. ft. of space at 292
Madison  Avenue,  New York,  New York under a lease  expiring  in the year 2004,
which includes options for additional growth of the agency.

      The  Agency's  other  full-service  offices  in  Atlanta,  Beverly  Hills,
Chicago, Dallas, Detroit,  Honolulu,  Irvine, Los Angeles, Mahwah,  Minneapolis,
Morton Grove, New York, San Francisco, Seattle and St. Louis and service offices
at various other locations occupy approximately 1,780,000 sq. ft. of space under
leases with varying expiration dates.

International

      The Company's international  subsidiaries in Australia,  Austria, Belgium,
Brazil, Canada, China, the Czech Republic,  Denmark,  Finland,  France, Germany,
Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New
Zealand,  Norway, Poland, Portugal,  Puerto Rico, Russia,  Singapore, the Slovak
Republic,  Spain, Sweden,  Switzerland,  Taiwan, Thailand and the United Kingdom
occupy premises under leases with various expiration dates.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

      The Agency has no material pending legal proceedings,  other than ordinary
routine litigation incidental to its business.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      No matters were  submitted to a vote of security  holders  during the last
quarter of 1993.






Executive Officers of the Company

      The individuals named below are Executive Officers of the Company:


     John L.  Bernbach,  Martin  Boase and Peter I. Jones ceased to be Executive
Officers of the Company in 1993 by reason of a change in their responsibilities.

     Effective  January  1, 1994,  Keith L.  Bremer  resigned  his  position  as
Treasurer  of the  Company to become  Chief  Financial  Officer  of DDB  Needham
Worldwide Inc.

     Effective  January 1, 1994,  Dennis E. Hewitt was  promoted to Treasurer of
the Company. Mr. Hewitt joined the Company in May 1988 as Assistant Treasurer.

     William G.  Tragos  became an  Executive  Officer of the  Company  upon the
Company's  acquisition of TBWA International B.V. in May 1993. Mr. Tragos is one
of the  founding  partners  of TBWA  International  B.V.  and has  served as the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since its formation.

      John  D.  Wren  became  an  Executive  Officer  of the  Company  upon  his
appointment as Chief  Executive  Officer of Diversified  Agency  Services in May
1993.  Mr. Wren had served as President of  Diversified  Agency  Services  since
February  1992,  having  previously  served as its Executive  Vice President and
General Manager from January 1991 through  February 1992, and as its Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer from September 1986 through December 1990.

      Dale A. Adams was promoted to Controller of the Company in July 1992.  Mr.
Adams  joined the  Company in July 1991 after ten years with  Coopers & Lybrand,
where he served as a general  practice  manager  from  1987  until  joining  the
Company.

      Raymond E.  McGovern  has served as Secretary  and General  Counsel of the
Company since September 1986,  having previously served as Secretary and General
Counsel of BBDO Worldwide Inc.  (then named BBDO  International,  Inc.) for more
than 10 years.

      Similar  information with respect to the remaining  Executive  Officers of
the Company will be found in the Company's  definitive proxy statement  expected
to be filed April 8, 1994.

      The Executive  Officers of the Company are elected annually  following the
Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of their respective employers.





                                    PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

     Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend History

      The Company's  Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol  "OMC".  The table below shows the range of reported last sale prices
on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape for the Company's common stock for
the periods  indicated and the dividends  paid per share on the common stock for
such periods.

                                                                 Dividends Paid
                                                                  Per Share of
                                         High            Low      Common Stock
                                         ----            ---      ------------
   First Quarter ..............        $36 3/4         $31 1/4         $.275
   Second Quarter .............         36 5/8          32              .310
   Third Quarter ..............         35 7/8          32              .310
   Fourth Quarter .............         41 7/8          34 3/4          .310
   First Quarter ..............         47 1/2          38 3/8          .310
   Second Quarter .............         47 1/4          38 1/4          .310
   Third Quarter ..............         46 1/4          37              .310
   Fourth Quarter .............         46 1/2          41 1/2          .310

      The  Company  is not aware of any  restrictions  on its  present or future
ability  to  pay  dividends.  However,  in  connection  with  certain  borrowing
facilities  entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries  (see Note 7 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial  Statements),  the Company is subject to certain
restrictions on its current ratio, tangible net worth, and the ratio of net cash
flow to consolidated indebtedness.

      On January 24, 1994 the Board of  Directors  declared a regular  quarterly
dividend of $.31 per share of common stock,  payable April 1, 1994 to holders of
record on March 18, 1994.

      Approximate Number of Equity Security Holders

                                                    Approximate Number of
                                                       Record Holders
                Title of Class                        on March 15, 1994
                --------------                      ---------------------
         Common Stock, $.50 par value .............         2,672
         Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value .........         None






 Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

      The following table sets forth selected  financial data of the Company and
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated  financial  statements which
begin on page F-1.



Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Results of Operations

      In 1993,  domestic revenues from commissions and fees increased 9 percent.
The  effect of  acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for a 4 percent
increase. The remaining 5 percent increase was due to net new business gains and
higher spending from existing clients.

     Domestic revenues increased 2 percent in both 1992 and 1991, primarily as a
result of net new business gains and higher spending from existing clients.

      In 1993,  international  revenues increased 10 percent.  The effect of the
acquisition of TBWA  International B.V. and several marketing services companies
in the United Kingdom, net of divestitures, accounted for an 18 percent increase
in international  revenues. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against several
major  international  currencies  relevant to the Company's non-U.S.  operations
decreased  revenues by 12 percent.  The  increase  in  revenues,  due to net new
business gains and higher spending from existing clients, was 4 percent.

      In 1992,  international revenues increased 25 percent, of which the effect
of the  acquisition  of McKim Baker  Lovick  BBDO in Canada and the  purchase of
additional shares in several  companies which were previously  affiliates of the
Company  accounted  for 14 percent.  The  remaining  increase was due to net new
business  gains and higher  spending from existing  clients.  The fourth quarter
strengthening of the U.S. dollar did not  significantly  impact the revenues for
the year.

      In 1991,  international  revenues increased 9 percent, of which the effect
of the  acquisition  of Valin  Pollen in the United  Kingdom,  the  purchase  of
additional shares in several  companies which were previously  affiliates of the
Company, offset by the merger of BBDO's agency in the United Kingdom into Abbott
Mead Vickers.  BBDO Ltd., accounted for 4 percent. The strengthening of the U.S.
dollar  decreased  international  revenues by 3 percent in 1991.  The  remaining
increase was due to net new business  gains and higher  spending  from  existing
clients.

      In 1993,  worldwide operating expenses increased 9 percent.  Acquisitions,
net of  divestitures  during the year,  accounted  for a 12 percent  increase in
worldwide  operating  expenses.  The  strengthening  of the U.S.  dollar against
several  international  currencies  decreased  worldwide operating expenses by 6
percent. The remaining increase was caused by normal salary increases and growth





in out-of-pocket expenditures to service the increased revenue base. Net foreign
exchange gains did not significantly impact operating expenses for the year.

      In  1992,  worldwide  operating  expenses,   before  the  special  charge,
increased  12  percent.  Acquisitions,  net of  divestitures  during  the  year,
accounted  for 5 percent of the increase.  The remaining  increase was caused by
normal salary increases and growth in out-of-pocket  expenditures to service the
increased  revenue base.  Foreign  exchange gains did not  significantly  impact
total  operating  expenses  for the  year.  The  ratio  of  worldwide  operating
expenses,  before  the  special  charge,  as a percent of  commissions  and fees
improved slightly over 1991.

      In 1991,  worldwide  operating  expenses,  increased  5 percent  over 1990
levels.  The ratio of  worldwide  operating  expenses,  excluding  non-recurring
items,  as a percent of  commissions  and fees did not change  significantly  in
1991.  Foreign exchange gains were comparable to those reported in 1990.  Gains,
net of losses, from the sales of equity interests in certain companies, together
with other  non-recurring  items did not have a  significant  effect on the 1991
results.

      Interest  expense in 1993 is  comparable  to 1992.  Interest  and dividend
income  decreased in 1993 by $2.2  million.  This  decrease was primarily due to
lower average amounts of cash and marketable securities invested during the year
and lower average interest rates on amounts invested.

      Interest  expense in 1992 is  comparable  to 1991.  Interest  and dividend
income  decreased by $1.4 million in 1992.  This  decrease was  primarily due to
lower  average  funds  available  for  investment  during the year and declining
interest rates in certain countries.

      Interest expense increased in 1991 by $1.3 million.  Interest and dividend
income  increased by $2.8 million in 1991. This increase was primarily due to an
increase of funds  available for  investment  overseas in markets where interest
rates were generally above those in the United States.

      In 1993,  the  effective  tax  rate  decreased  to  42.0%.  This  decrease
primarily  reflects a lower  international  effective  tax rate  caused by fewer
international operating losses with no associated tax benefit,  partially offset
by an increased domestic federal tax rate.

      In  1992,  the  effective  tax rate of 43.6%  was  comparable  to the 1991
effective tax rate of 44%.

      In 1993,  consolidated net income  increased 23 percent.  This increase is
the result of revenue growth,  margin improvement,  an increase in equity income
and a decrease in minority interest expense.  Operating margin increased to 11.2
percent  in 1993 from 11.1  percent  in 1992.  This  increase  was the result of
greater  growth in  commission  and fee  revenue  than the  growth in  operating
expenses.  The increase in equity income is the result of improved net income at
companies  which  are less than 50  percent  owned.  The  decrease  in  minority
interest  expense  is  primarily  due to the  acquisition  of  certain  minority
interests in 1993 and lower  earnings by companies in which  minority  interests
exist. In 1993, the incremental  impact of  acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,
accounted for 1 percent of the increase in  consolidated  net income,  while the
strengthening  of the  U.S.  dollar  against  several  international  currencies
decreased consolidated net income by 6 percent.

      Consolidated  net income  increased 21 percent in 1992. This increase is a
result of revenue growth and margin  improvement.  Operating margin,  before the
first quarter special charge discussed below,  increased to 11.1 percent in 1992
from 10.9 percent in 1991.  This  increase  was the result of greater  growth in
commissions  and fees  than the  growth  in  operating  expenses.  In 1992,  the
incremental impact of acquisitions, net of divestitures, accounted for 6 percent
of the increase in consolidated net income.

      Consolidated  net income  increased 10 percent in 1991. This increase is a
result of revenue  growth,  margin  improvement,  lower net interest costs and a
reduction  in the  effective  tax rate.  Operating  margin,  which  excludes net
interest  expense,  increased to 10.9 percent in 1991 from 10.8 percent in 1990,
reflecting the greater  growth of commissions  and fees as compared to operating
expenses.  The reduction in net interest expense also contributed to an increase
in the Net Income Before Tax margin from 8.7 percent to 9.1 percent.  The impact
of net non-recurring items in 1991 did not contribute towards net income growth.
In 1991, the  incremental  effect of  acquisitions  net of  dispositions  had an
adverse effect of 5 percent on net income.





      At December 31, 1993,  accounts  payable  increased by $131.3 million from
December 31, 1992.  This increase was  primarily  due to an increased  volume of
activity  resulting from business  growth and  acquisitions  during the year and
differences in the dates on which payments to media and other  suppliers  became
due in 1993 compared to 1992.

      In 1992, the Company adopted two new accounting principles which had a net
favorable  cumulative  after tax effect of $3.8 million.  At the same time,  the
Company  recorded a special  charge to  provide  for  future  losses  related to
certain leased property. The combination of the favorable impact of the adoption
of the new accounting  principles and the after tax impact of the special charge
had no effect on 1992 consolidated net income.

      Effective  January 1, 1994, the Company will adopt  Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 112 "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits"
("SFAS No. 112").  The Company  estimates that the adoption of SFAS No. 112 will
result in an  unfavorable  after tax effect on net income of  approximately  $27
million.

      The current  economic  conditions  in the  Company's  major  markets would
indicate  varying growth rates in advertising  expenditures in 1994. The Company
anticipates slow growth rates in certain European  economies and improved growth
rates in the United  States,  the United  Kingdom and  Australia.  However,  the
Company believes that it is properly positioned should the anticipated  improved
growth rates not occur.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

      Cash  and cash  equivalents  increased  $62  million  during  1993 to $175
million at December 31, 1993.  The Company's  positive net cash flow provided by
operating  activities was enhanced by an improvement in the relationship between
the  collection of accounts  receivable  and the payment of obligations to media
and  other   suppliers.   After  annual  cash  outlays  for  dividends  paid  to
shareholders  and minority  interests and the repurchase of the Company's common
stock  for  employee  programs,  the  balance  of the cash flow was used to fund
acquisitions,  make capital  expenditures,  repay debt obligations and invest in
marketable securities. Cash was also raised from the issuance of $144 million of
4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  due  2000,  the  net
proceeds of which were used for general corporate purposes, including, to reduce
borrowings under the Company's commercial paper program.

      On August 9,  1993,  the  Company  issued a Notice of  Redemption  for the
outstanding $85 million of its 7% Convertible  Subordinated Debentures due 2013.
Prior to the  October 8, 1993  redemption  date,  debenture  holders  elected to
convert all of their outstanding  debentures into common stock of the Company at
a conversion price of $25.75 per common share.

      The  Company  maintains  relationships  with a number of banks  worldwide,
which have extended unsecured committed lines of credit in amounts sufficient to
meet the  Company's  cash needs.  At  December  31,  1993,  the Company had $359
million in  committed  lines of credit,  comprised  of a $200  million,  two and
one-half year revolving  credit  agreement and $159 million in unsecured  credit
lines,  principally  outside  of the  United  States.  Of the  $359  million  in
committed lines, $27 million were used at December 31, 1993. Management believes
the aggregate  lines of credit  available to the Company are adequate to support
its  short-term  cash  requirements  for  dividends,  capital  expenditures  and
maintenance of working capital.

      The Company anticipates that the year end cash position, together with the
future cash flows from  operations and funds  available  under  existing  credit
facilities will be adequate to meet its long-term cash requirements as presently
contemplated.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

      The  financial  statements  and  supplementary  data required by this item
appear beginning on page F-1.

Item  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

      None.





                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

      Information  with respect to the directors of the Company is  incorporated
by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement expected to be filed by
April 8, 1994.  Information  regarding the Company's  executive  officers is set
forth in Part I of this Form 10-K.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

      Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 8, 1994.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

      Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 8, 1994.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 8, 1994.





                                    PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on  Form 8-K

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
(a) 1.Financial Statements:

      Report of Management ............................................     F-1

      Report of Independent Public Accountants ........................     F-2

      Consolidated Statements of Income for the three years
         ended December 31, 1993 ......................................     F-3

      Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1993 and 1992 .......     F-4

      Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the
         three years ended December 31, 1993 ..........................     F-5

      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years
         ended December 31, 1993 ......................................     F-6

      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ......................     F-7

      Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) .....................     F-16

    2.Financial Statement Schedules:

      For the three years ended December 31, 1993:

       Schedule II--Amounts Receivable from Related Parties,
          Underwriters, Promoters, and Employees
          Other Than Related Parties ..................................     S-1

       Schedule VIII--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts ...............     S-3

       Schedule IX--Short-Term Borrowings .............................     S-4

       Schedule X--Supplementary Income Statement Information .........     S-5

     All other  schedules  are omitted  because they are not  applicable  or the
     required  information is shown in the consolidated  financial statements or
     notes thereto.

    3. Exhibits:

     (3)(i)         Articles of Incorporation.
                    Incorporated  by reference to the 1986 Annual Report on
                    Form  10-K  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
                    Commission on March 31, 1987.

       (ii)         By-laws.
                    Incorporated  by reference to the 1987 Annual Report on
                    Form  10-K  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
                    Commission on March 31, 1988.

     (4)            Instruments  Defining  the Rights of Security  Holders,
                    Including Indentures.

       4.1          Copy of  Registrant's 6 1/2%  Convertible  Subordinated
                    Debentures due 2004, including the indenture,  filed as
                    Exhibit 4.2 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual  Report on
                    Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31, 1989,
                    is incorporated herein by reference.





        4.2         Copy of  Registrant's  4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up  Convertible
                    Subordinated  Debentures due 2000, filed as Exhibit 4.3
                    to Omnicom Group Inc.'s  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
                    for  the  quarter   ended   September   30,  1993,   is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

     (10)           Material Contracts.
      
                    Management Contracts,  Compensatory Plans, Contracts or
                    Arrangements.

       10.1         Standard  Form  of  Severance   Compensation  Agreement
                    incorporated by reference to BBDO International  Inc.'s
                    Form  S-1   Registration   Statement   filed  with  the
                    Securities  and Exchange  Commission  on September  28,
                    1973, is incorporated herein by reference.

       10.2         Copy of Registrant's  1987 Stock Plan, filed as Exhibit
                    10.26 to Omnicom  Group  Inc.'s  Annual  Report on Form
                    10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1987,  is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

       10.3         Copy of  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement  Plan
                    dated May 16, 1988,  filed as Exhibit  10.24 to Omnicom
                    Group Inc.'s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                    year ended December 31, 1988, is incorporated herein by
                    reference.

       10.4         Copy of  Employment  Agreement  dated  March 20,  1989,
                    between Peter I. Jones and Boase  Massimi  Pollitt plc,
                    filed as Exhibit  10.22 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s Annual
                    Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December
                    31, 1989, is incorporated herein by reference.

       10.5         Standard Form of the Registrant's 1988 Executive Salary
                    Continuation Plan Agreement,  filed as Exhibit 10.24 to
                    Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                    fiscal year ended  December 31, 1989,  is  incorporated
                    herein by reference.

       10.6         Standard  Form  of  the  Registrant's   Indemnification
                    Agreement  with  members  of   Registrant's   Board  of
                    Directors,  filed as  Exhibit  10.25 to  Omnicom  Group
                    Inc.'s  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                    ended  December 31,  1989,  is  incorporated  herein by
                    reference.

       10.7         Copy  of DDB  Needham  Worldwide  Joint  Savings  Plan,
                    effective as of May 1, 1989,  filed as Exhibit 10.26 to
                    Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                    fiscal year ended  December 31, 1989,  is  incorporated
                    herein by reference.

       10.8         Amendment  to  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement
                    Plan, listed as Exhibit 10.3 above, adopted February 4,
                    1991,  filed as Exhibit  10.28 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s
                    Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
                    December 31, 1990, is incorporated herein by reference.

       10.9         Amendment  to  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement
                    Plan listed as Exhibit 10.3 above,  adopted on December
                    7, 1992, filed as Exhibit 10.13 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s
                    Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
                    December 31, 1992, is incorporated herein by reference.

       10.10        Amendment  to  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement
                    Plan listed as Exhibit  10.3 above,  adopted on July 1,
                    1993.

       10.11        Copy of Severance Agreement dated July 6, 1993, between
                    Keith Reinhard and DDB Needham Worldwide Inc.

       10.12        Copy of Severance Agreement dated July 6, 1993, between
                    John L. Bernbach and DDB Needham Worldwide Inc.

       10.13        Copy  of  Employment  Agreement  dated  May  26,  1993,
                    between William G. Tragos and TBWA International B.V.

       10.14        Copy of Deferred  Compensation  Agreement dated October
                    12,   1984,   between   William  G.   Tragos  and  TBWA
                    Advertising Inc.






                    Other Material Contracts.

       10.15        Copy  of  $200,000,000   Amended  and  Restated  Credit
                    Agreement,  dated  January  1,  1993,  between  Omnicom
                    Finance Inc.,  Swiss Bank Corporation and the financial
                    institutions  party thereto,  filed as Exhibit 10.12 to
                    Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                    fiscal year ended  December 31, 1992,  is  incorporated
                    herein by reference.

    (21)            Subsidiaries of the Registrant.......................   S-6

    (23)            Consents of Experts and Counsel.

       23.1         Consent of Independent Public Accountants............   S-16

    (24)            Powers of Attorney  from  Bernard  Brochand,  Robert J.
                    Callander,  Leonard S.  Coleman,  Jr., John R. Purcell,
                    Gary L. Roubos,  Quentin I. Smith, Jr., Robin B. Smith,
                    William G. Tragos, and Egon P. S. Zehnder.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

     No  reports on Form 8-K were  filed  during the fourth  quarter of the year
ended December 31, 1993.






                                SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                           Omnicom Group Inc.
Date: March 28, 1994

                                           By:         /s/ Fred J. Meyer
                                              -------------------------------
                                                           Fred J. Meyer
                                                      Chief Financial Officer

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.






                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

     The  management of Omnicom Group Inc. is  responsible  for the integrity of
the financial  data reported by Omnicom Group and its  subsidiaries.  Management
uses its best judgment to ensure that the financial  statements  present fairly,
in all material  respects,  the consolidated  financial  position and results of
operations of Omnicom Group.  These  financial  statements have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

     The system of internal controls of Omnicom Group, augmented by a program of
internal  audits,  is designed to provide  reasonable  assurance that assets are
safeguarded  and records are  maintained  to  substantiate  the  preparation  of
accurate financial information.  Underlying this concept of reasonable assurance
is the premise that the cost of control  should not exceed the benefits  derived
therefrom.

     The  financial   statements   have  been  audited  by  independent   public
accountants.  Their report expresses an independent  informed judgment as to the
fairness of management's reported operating results and financial position. This
judgment is based on the procedures  described in the second  paragraph of their
report.

     The Audit Committee meets  periodically with  representatives  of financial
management, internal audit and the independent public accountants to assure that
each is properly discharging their responsibilities. In order to ensure complete
independence,  the Audit  Committee  communicates  directly with the independent
public  accountants,  internal  audit and  financial  management  to discuss the
results of their audits,  the adequacy of internal  accounting  controls and the
quality of financial reporting.

    /s/  Bruce Crawford                              /s/ Fred J. Meyer
- -----------------------------------          ----------------------------------
         Bruce Crawford                                  Fred J. Meyer
President and Chief Executive Officer               Chief Financial Officer



                                      F-1



                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and
  Shareholders of Omnicom Group Inc.:

     We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of Omnicom
Group Inc. (a New York corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and
1992, and the related consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders' equity,
and cash flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,
1993.  These  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted  our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all  material  respects,  the  financial  position of Omnicom  Group Inc. and
subsidiaries  as of  December  31,  1993  and  1992,  and the  results  of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1993 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

     As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 1992, the Company  changed its methods of accounting for income taxes
and postretirement benefits other than pensions.

     Our  audits  were made for the  purpose  of forming an opinion on the basic
financial  statements  taken as a whole.  The schedules on pages S-1 through S-5
are  presented  for  purposes of  complying  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission's  rules and are not part of the basic  financial  statements.  These
schedules have been subjected to the auditing  procedures  applied in the audits
of the basic  financial  statements  and, in our  opinion,  fairly  state in all
material  respects  the  financial  data  required  to be set forth  therein  in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.



                                                    Arthur Andersen & Co.      

New York, New York
February 22, 1994



                                      F-2



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



       The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are
                   an integral part of these statements.



                                      F-3


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                  A S S E T S



        The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are
                    an integral part of these balance sheets.

                                      F-4



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

                      Three Years Ended December 31, 1993
                             (Dollars in Thousands)




        The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are
                      an integral part of these statements.



                                      F-5


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



     The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral
part of these statements.



                                      F-6



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Recognition of Commission and Fee Revenue.  Substantially  all revenues are
derived from  commissions for placement of  advertisements  in various media and
from  fees  for  manpower  and for  production  of  advertisements.  Revenue  is
generally   recognized  when  billed.   Billings  are  generally  rendered  upon
presentation  date for media, when manpower is used, when costs are incurred for
radio and television production and when print production is completed.

     Principles  of  Consolidation.   The  accompanying  consolidated  financial
statements  include the  accounts of Omnicom  Group Inc.  and its  domestic  and
international   subsidiaries  (the  "Company").   All  significant  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated.

     Reclassifications.  Certain  prior year amounts have been  reclassified  to
conform with the 1993 presentation.

     Billable   Production.   Billable  production  orders  in  process  consist
principally  of  costs  incurred  in  producing   advertisements  and  marketing
communications  for clients.  Such amounts are generally  billed to clients when
costs are incurred for radio and television production and when print production
is completed.

     Treasury Stock.  The Company accounts for treasury share purchases at cost.
The reissuance of treasury shares is accounted for at the average cost. Gains or
losses on the  reissuance  of treasury  shares are  generally  accounted  for as
additional paid-in capital.

     Foreign  Currency  Translation.  The Company's  financial  statements  were
prepared  in  accordance  with  the   requirements  of  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting Standards No. 52, "Foreign Currency  Translation." Under this method,
net  transaction  gains of $5.0  million,  $8.1  million  and $5.3  million  are
included in 1993, 1992 and 1991 net income, respectively.

     Net Income Per Common Share.  Primary  earnings per share is based upon the
weighted   average  number  of  common  shares  and  common  share   equivalents
outstanding  during each year.  Fully diluted earnings per share is based on the
above  adjusted  for  the  assumed  conversion  of  the  Company's   Convertible
Subordinated Debentures and the assumed increase in net income for the after tax
interest cost of these  debentures.  For the year ended  December 31, 1993,  the
6.5%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures were assumed to be converted for the
full  year;  the 7%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  were  assumed  to be
converted  through  October 8, 1993 when they were  converted into common stock;
and the 4.5%/6.25% Step-Up Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures were assumed to
be converted  from their  September 1, 1993 issuance  date.  For the years ended
December 31, 1992 and 1991, the 6.5% and 7% Convertible  Subordinated Debentures
were assumed to be converted for the full year. The number of shares used in the
computations were as follows:

                                          1993        1992         1991
                                          ----        ----         ----
     Primary EPS computation .......   30,607,900   28,320,400   27,415,000
     Fully diluted EPS computation .   37,563,500   35,332,400   34,384,400

     Severance   Agreements.   Arrangements  with  certain  present  and  former
employees  provide  for  continuing  payments  for  periods up to 10 years after
cessation of their full-time  employment in consideration  for agreements by the
employees  not to  compete  and  to  render  consulting  services  in  the  post
employment  period.  Such  payments,  which are  determined,  subject to certain
conditions and limitations,  by earnings in subsequent periods,  are expensed in
such periods.

     Depreciation  of Furniture  and  Equipment  and  Amortization  of Leasehold
Improvements.  Depreciation  charges are  computed on a  straight-line  basis or
declining  balance  method over the  estimated  useful  lives of  furniture  and
equipment,   up  to  10  years.   Leasehold  improvements  are  amortized  on  a
straight-line  basis  over the lesser of the terms of the  related  lease or the
useful life of these assets.

     Intangibles.  Intangibles represent acquisition costs in excess of the fair
value of tangible net assets of purchased subsidiaries which are being amortized
on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding forty years.

     Deferred  Taxes.  Deferred tax  liabilities  and tax benefits relate to the
recognition  of certain  revenues and expenses in different  years for financial
statement and tax purposes.



                                      F-7



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

     Cash Flows.  The Company's  cash  equivalents  are  primarily  comprised of
investments in overnight interest-bearing deposits and money market instruments
with maturity dates of three months or less.

     The following  supplemental  schedule  summarizes  the fair value of assets
acquired,  cash  paid,  common  shares  issued  and the  liabilities  assumed in
conjunction  with the  acquisition  of  equity  interests  in  subsidiaries  and
affiliates, for each of the three years ended December 31:

                                                  (Dollars in thousands)
                                               1993        1992         1991
Fair value of non-cash assets acquired ..   $ 287,177   $ 173,974   $  89,384
Cash paid, net of cash acquired .........     (80,577)    (59,651)    (77,129)
Common shares issued ....................     (21,906)      5,596     (10,610)
                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
Liabilities assumed .....................   $ 184,694   $ 119,919   $   1,645
                                            =========   =========   =========

     During  1993,  the Company  issued  3,334,079  shares of common  stock upon
conversion of $85.9 million of its 7% Convertible Subordinated Debentures.

     Concentration  of  Credit  Risk.  The  Company  provides   advertising  and
marketing  services  to a wide range of  clients  who  operate in many  industry
sectors around the world.  The Company  grants credit to all qualified  clients,
but does not believe it is exposed to any undue  concentration of credit risk to
any significant degree.

2. Acquisitions

     During 1993 the Company made several  acquisitions whose aggregate cost, in
cash or by issuance of the Company's  common stock,  totaled  $132.8 million for
net assets, which included intangible assets of $149.7 million. Included in both
figures are  contingent  payments  related to prior year  acquisitions  totaling
$16.2 million.

     Pro  forma  combined  results  of  operations  of  the  Company  as if  the
acquisitions  had occurred on January 1, 1992 do not materially  differ from the
reported  amounts in the  consolidated  statements of income for each of the two
years in the period ended December 31, 1993.

      Certain acquisitions entered into in 1993 require payments in future years
if certain results are achieved.  Formulas for these contingent  future payments
differ from acquisition to acquisition.

     In May 1993,  the  Company  completed  its  acquisition  of a third  agency
network,  TBWA International B.V. The acquisition was accounted for as a pooling
of interests and, accordingly,  the results of operations for TBWA International
B.V. have been included in these consolidated financial statements since January
1, 1993. Prior year consolidated  financial  statements were not restated as the
impact on such years was not material.

3.  Bank Loans and Lines of Credit

     Bank  loans  generally  resulted  from  bank  overdrafts  of  international
subsidiaries which are treated as loans pursuant to bank agreements. At December
31,  1993 and  1992,  the  Company  had  unsecured  committed  lines  of  credit
aggregating $359 million and $266 million,  respectively.  The unused portion of
credit  lines was $332  million and $237  million at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  The lines of credit are generally  extended at the banks' lending
rates to their most credit worthy borrowers.  Material compensating balances are
not required within the terms of these credit agreements.

     At December 31, 1992, the committed  lines of credit  included $125 million
under a two year revolving credit agreement. Due to the long term nature of this
credit  agreement,  borrowings  under the agreement were classified as long-term
debt. As of January 1, 1993, the $125 million credit agreement was replaced by a
$200 million, two and one-half year revolving credit agreement. Borrowings under
this credit  agreement  are also  classified  as long-term  debt.  There were no
borrowings under these credit agreements at December 31, 1993 and 1992.

4.  Employee Stock Plans

       Under the terms of the  Company's  1987 Stock Plan, as amended (the "1987
Plan"),  4,750,000  shares of  common  stock of the  Company  are  reserved  for
restricted stock awards and non-qualified stock  options to key employees of the
Company.



                                      F-8


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

     Under the terms of the 1987  Plan,  the  option  price may not be less than
100% of the market value of the stock at the date of the grant.  Options  become
exercisable  30% on each of the first two  anniversary  dates of the grant  date
with the final 40% becoming exercisable three years from the grant date.

      Under the 1987 Plan, 285,000,  242,500 and 175,000  non-qualified  options
were granted in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

      A summary of changes in  outstanding  options  for the three  years  ended
December 31, 1993 is as follows:

                                                   Years Ended December 31,
                                               ---------------------------------
                                                1993         1992        1991
                                                ----         ----        ----
Shares under option (at prices ranging
  from $16.50 to $35.0625) --
  Beginning of year .....................     998,000    1,043,900    1,076,416
Options granted (at prices ranging from
  $23.50 to $40.0625) ...................     285,000      242,500      175,000
Options exercised (at prices ranging
  from $16.50 to $35.0625) ..............    (197,800)    (274,200)    (203,600)
Options forfeited .......................     (12,800)     (14,200)      (3,916)
                                            ---------      -------    ---------
Shares under option (at prices ranging
  from $16.875 to $40.0625)-- End of year   1,072,400      998,000    1,043,900
                                            =========      =======    =========
Shares exercisable ......................     562,650      443,400      371,749
Shares reserved .........................   1,502,882      589,422    1,099,902

     Under the 1987 Plan,  337,200 shares,  314,775 shares and 278,250 shares of
restricted   stock  of  the  Company  were  awarded  in  1993,  1992  and  1991,
respectively.

     All restricted  shares granted under the 1987 Plan were sold at a price per
share  equal to their par value.  The  difference  between  par value and market
value  on the date of the  sale is  charged  to  shareholders'  equity  and then
amortized to expense over the period of  restriction.  Under the 1987 Plan,  the
restricted  shares become  transferable to the employee in 20% annual increments
provided the employee remains in the employ of the Company.

     Restricted  shares  may not be  sold,  transferred,  pledged  or  otherwise
encumbered until the restrictions lapse. Under most circumstances,  the employee
must  resell  the  shares to the  Company  at par value if the  employee  ceases
employment  prior to the end of the period of restriction.  A summary of changes
in outstanding shares of restricted stock for the three years ended December 31,
1993 is as follows:

                                             Years Ended December 31,
                                       -----------------------------------
                                         1993          1992          1991
                                         ----          ----          ----
   Beginning balance ...........       629,752       619,024       765,763
     Amount granted ............       337,200       314,775       278,250
     Amount vested .............      (201,712)     (278,942)     (394,085)
     Amount forfeited ..........       (24,804)      (25,105)      (30,904)
                                       -------       -------       -------
   Ending balance ..............       740,436       629,752       619,024
                                       =======       =======       =======


     The charge to operations in connection with these  restricted  stock awards
for the years ended  December 31, 1993,  1992 and 1991 amounted to $7.1 million,
$6.0 million and $6.2 million, respectively.

                                      F-9



                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

5.  Segment Reporting

     The Company operates advertising agencies and offers its clients additional
marketing  services  and  specialty  advertising  through its  wholly-owned  and
partially-owned  businesses. A summary of the Company's operations by geographic
area as of December  31,  1993,  1992 and 1991,  and for the years then ended is
presented below:

                                             (Dollars in Thousands)
                                       United
                                       States     International   Consolidated
                                     ----------   -------------   ------------
   Commissions and Fees ........     $  770,611     $  745,864     $1,516,475
   Operating Profit ............         92,095         77,104        169,199
   Net Income ..................         40,814         44,531         85,345
   Identifiable Assets .........        827,032      1,462,831      2,289,863

   Commissions and Fees ........        706,902        678,259      1,385,161
   Operating Profit ............         70,558         75,816        146,374
   Net Income ..................         33,223         36,075         69,298
   Identifiable Assets .........        675,508      1,276,442      1,951,950

   Commissions and Fees ........        692,642        543,516      1,236,158
   Operating Profit ............         65,981         69,136        135,117
   Net Income ..................         25,078         31,974         57,052
   Identifiable Assets .........        659,583      1,226,311      1,885,894

6.  Investments in Affiliates

     The Company has  approximately  45  unconsolidated  affiliates  with equity
ownership  ranging from 20% to 50%. The following  table  summarizes the balance
sheets  and  income  statements  of  the  Company's  unconsolidated  affiliates,
primarily in Europe,  Australia, Asia and Canada, as of December 31, 1993, 1992,
1991, and for the years then ended:

                                                 (Dollars in Thousands)
                                           1993          1992          1991
                                           ----          ----          ----
   Current assets .................      $308,741      $312,423      $408,376
   Non-current assets .............        73,772        64,901        54,474
   Current liabilities ............       235,389       259,508       321,777
   Non-current liabilities ........        29,596         8,302        11,456
   Minority interests .............         1,149         1,110           275
   Gross revenues .................       290,814       288,416       374,760
   Costs and expenses .............       238,039       243,661       326,076
   Net income .....................        33,574        27,752        28,933

     The  Company's  equity in the net income of these  affiliates  amounted  to
$13.2  million,  $9.6  million  and  $9.3  million  for  1993,  1992  and  1991,
respectively.  The  Company's  equity  in  the  net  tangible  assets  of  these
affiliated  companies was approximately  $58.1 million,  $56.2 million and $54.5
million at  December  31,  1993,  1992 and 1991,  respectively.  Included in the
Company's  investments in affiliates is the excess of acquisition costs over the
fair value of tangible net assets acquired.  These  acquisitions costs are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding forty years.



                                      F-10


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

7.  Long-Term Debt and Financial Instruments

     Long-term  debt  outstanding  as of December 31, 1993 and 1992 consisted of
the following:


     During the third  quarter  of 1993,  the  Company  issued  $143,750,000  of
4.5%/6.25% Step-Up Convertible Subordinated Debentures with a scheduled maturity
in 2000.  The average annual  interest rate through the year 2000 is 5.42%.  The
debentures  are  convertible  into common  stock of the Company at a  conversion
price of  $54.88  per  share  subject  to  adjustment  in  certain  events.  The
debentures  are not  redeemable  prior to  September  1, 1996.  Thereafter,  the
Company may redeem the debentures initially at 102.984% and at decreasing prices
thereafter to 100% at maturity, in each case together with accrued interest. The
debentures  also may be repaid at the option of the  holder at anytime  prior to
September 1, 2000 if there is a Fundamental  Change, as defined in the debenture
agreement, at the repayment prices set forth in the debenture agreement, subject
to adjustment, together with accrued interest.

     On August 9, 1993,  the Company  issued a Notice of  Redemption  for its 7%
Convertible  Subordinated Debentures with a scheduled maturity in 2013. Prior to
the October 1993 redemption  date,  debenture  holders elected to convert all of
their  outstanding  debentures  into common stock of the Company at a conversion
price of $25.75 per common share.

     During the third quarter of 1989, the Company issued  $100,000,000  of 6.5%
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  with a scheduled  maturity  in 2004.  The
debentures  are  convertible  into common  stock of the Company at a  conversion
price of $28.00 per share  subject to adjustment  in certain  events.  Debenture
holders have the right to require the Company to redeem the  debentures  on July
26, 1996 at a price of 123.001%, or upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change,
as defined in the debenture agreement,  at the prevailing  redemption price. The
Company  may  redeem the  debentures  on or after July 27,  1994,  initially  at
118.808%,  from July 27, 1995 to and  including  July 26, 1996 at 123.001%,  and
thereafter at 100%, together in each case with accrued interest.  The debentures
may  also be  redeemed  in whole  at any  time,  at par  together  with  accrued
interest,  if any, in the event of certain developments  regarding United States
tax  laws  or  the  imposition  of  certain   certification  or   identification
requirements.

     Also in the third quarter of 1989, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
issued  interest  bearing Loan Notes in connection with the acquisition of Boase
Massimi Pollitt plc. The Loan Notes are unsecured obligations  guaranteed by the
Company and bear  interest at a yearly rate of 1/8 percent  below the average of
the six  month  London  Inter-Bank  Offered  Rate for the  three  business  days
preceding the commencement of the relevant  interest period.  The Loan Notes are
redeemable,  at the  option of the  holder in whole or in part at their  nominal
amount,  together  with  interest  accrued  to the  date of  redemption,  on any
interest payment date. Under certain  conditions the Company may redeem the Loan



                                      F-11


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Notes, at their nominal amount plus accrued  interest,  on any interest  payment
date on or after  December 31, 1992.  Unless  earlier  redeemed or purchased and
cancelled,  the Loan Notes will be repaid on December 31, 1994 at their  nominal
amount together with accrued interest.

     In January  1993,  the Company  amended and restated the  revolving  credit
agreement  originally  entered into in 1988. This $200,000,000  revolving credit
agreement  is with a  consortium  of banks  having  an  initial  term of two and
one-half years. This credit agreement includes a facility for issuing commercial
paper backed by bank letters of credit. The agreement contains certain financial
covenants regarding minimum tangible net worth, current ratio, ratio of net cash
flow  to  consolidated   indebtedness,   limitation  on  foreign   indebtedness,
limitation on employee  loans,  and  limitation on  investments  in and loans to
affiliates and unconsolidated subsidiaries. At December 31, 1993 the Company was
in compliance with all of these covenants.

     Aggregate  maturities  of  long-term  debt in the next  five  years  are as
follows:
                                          (Dollars in Thousands)
                                          ----------------------
               1994 ........................     $21,892
               1995 ........................      18,906
               1996 ........................       9,622
               1997 ........................       4,373
               1998 ........................       1,526

     Periodically,  the Company enters into swap agreements and other derivative
financial  instruments  primarily  to reduce  the  impact of  changes in foreign
exchange rates on net assets and liabilities  denominated in foreign  currencies
and to reduce the impact of changes in interest  rates on floating rate debt. At
December 31,  1993,  the Company had foreign  currency  and  interest  rate swap
agreements  outstanding with commercial banks having a notional principal amount
of $70.6 million. These agreements effectively change a portion of the Company's
foreign currency  denominated debt to U.S. dollar  denominated  debt. The change
from foreign currency  denominated debt reduces the exposure to foreign currency
fluctuations.

     The Company also has entered into U.S. dollar interest rate swap agreements
which  convert its floating  rate debt to a fixed rate.  These  agreements  have
varying  notional  principal  amounts,  starting dates and maturity  dates.  The
aggregate maximum notional principal amount outstanding  through October 2003 is
$50 million.

8.  Income Taxes

     Income before income taxes and the provision for taxes on income  consisted
of the amounts shown below:

                                                 Years Ended December 31,
                                                  (Dollars in Thousands)
                                          -----------------------------------
                                             1993         1992         1991
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Income before income taxes:
    Domestic .........................    $  65,571    $  47,535    $  44,937
    International ....................       77,053       74,761       66,987
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
      Totals .........................    $ 142,624    $ 122,296    $ 111,924
Provision for taxes on income:
    Current:
      Federal ........................    $  16,428    $  17,143    $  15,140
      State and local ................        6,531        6,215        2,765
      International ..................       35,071       29,067       29,980
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
                                             58,030       52,425       47,885
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
    Deferred:
      Federal ........................        2,979       (3,702)       1,170
      State and local ................          139       (1,375)         239
      International ..................       (1,277)       5,920          (46)
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
                                              1,841          843        1,363
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
      Totals .........................    $  59,871    $  53,268    $  49,248
                                          =========    =========    =========


                                      F-12


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

     The Company's  effective income tax rate varied from the statutory  federal
income tax rate as a result of the following factors:

                                               1993   1992   1991
                                               ----   ----   ---- 
     Statutory federal income tax rate .....   35.0%  34.0%  34.0%
     State and local taxes on income, net of
       federal income tax benefit ..........    3.0    2.6    1.8
     International subsidiaries' tax rate in
       excess of federal statutory rate ....    0.1    1.3    2.7
     Losses of international subsidiaries
       without tax benefit .................    0.2    1.0    0.3
     Non-deductible amortization of goodwill    3.9    3.7    3.3
     Other .................................   (0.2)   1.0    1.9
                                               ----   ----   ---- 
     Effective rate ........................   42.0%  43.6%  44.0%
                                               ====   ====   ==== 

     The Company  accounts for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of
Statement of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 109  "Accounting  for Income
Taxes," which was adopted effective  January 1, 1992.  Deferred income taxes are
provided for the temporary  difference between the financial reporting basis and
tax basis of the Company's assets and liabilities.  Deferred tax benefits result
principally from recording  certain  expenses in the financial  statements which
are not currently  deductible for tax purposes.  Deferred tax liabilities result
principally from expenses which are currently  deductible for tax purposes,  but
have not yet been expensed in the financial statements.

     The Company has recorded  deferred tax benefits as of December 31, 1993 and
1992 of $56.7 million and $21.9  million,  respectively, related  principally to
leasehold   amortization,   restricted  stock  amortization,   foreign  exchange
transactions, and accrued expenses.

     The Company has recorded  deferred tax  liabilities as of December 31, 1993
and 1992 of $29.3 million and $21.9 million,  respectively,  related principally
to furniture and equipment depreciation and tax lease recognition.

     In 1993,  legislation  was enacted which  increased the U.S.  statutory tax
rate from 34% to 35%.  The effect of this rate change and other  statutory  rate
changes in various state, local and international jurisdictions was not material
to net income.

     A provision has been made for additional  income and  withholding  taxes on
the  earnings  of  international   subsidiaries  and  affiliates  that  will  be
distributed.

9.  Employee Retirement Plans

     The Company's  international and domestic  subsidiaries  provide retirement
benefits for their  employees  primarily  through profit sharing plans.  Company
contributions  to the plans,  which are determined by the boards of directors of
the subsidiaries,  have been in amounts up to 15% (the maximum amount deductible
for federal income tax purposes) of total eligible compensation of participating
employees.  Profit  sharing  expense  amounted to $25.8  million in 1993,  $20.8
million in 1992 and $24.4 million in 1991.

     Some of the Company's international  subsidiaries have pension plans. These
plans are not  required  to  report to  governmental  agencies  pursuant  to the
Employee  Retirement  Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).  Substantially all of
these plans are funded by fixed  premium  payments to  insurance  companies  who
undertake  legal  obligations to provide  specific  benefits to the  individuals
covered.  Pension expense amounted to $2.4 million in 1993, $2.7 million in 1992
and $2.5 million in 1991.

     Certain  subsidiaries of the Company have an executive  retirement  program
under which benefits will be paid to participants or their beneficiaries over 15
years from age 65 or death.  In addition,  other  subsidiaries  have  individual
deferred  compensation  arrangements  with certain  executives which provide for
payments over varying terms upon retirement, cessation of employment or death.



                                      F-13


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

     Some of the  Company's  domestic  subsidiaries  provide life  insurance and
medical  benefits  for  retired  employees.  Eligibility  requirements  vary  by
subsidiary,  but generally include  attainment of a specified  combined age plus
years of service factor. In 1991 the cost of these benefits was expensed as paid
and was not  material  to the  consolidated  results  of  operations.  Effective
January 1, 1992,  the Company  adopted the  provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards  No.  106  "Employers'  Accounting  For  Post-  retirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions"  ("SFAS No. 106").  SFAS No. 106 requires that the
expected cost of post retirement benefits be charged to expense during the years
that the eligible  employees render service.  The after tax cumulative effect of
the  adoption  of SFAS No. 106 was not  material to the net worth of the Company
and the expense for the year was not material to the 1993 and 1992  consolidated
results of operations.

10.  Commitments

     At December 31, 1993,  the Company was committed  under  operating  leases,
principally  for office  space.  Certain  leases are subject to rent reviews and
require payment of expenses under  escalation  clauses.  Rent expense was $128.8
million  in 1993,  $117.3  million  in 1992 and  $101.7  million  in 1991  after
reduction by rents received from  subleases of $10.0 million,  $14.1 million and
$17.9  million,   respectively.   Future  minimum  base  rents  under  terms  of
noncancellable  operating leases,  reduced by rents to be received from existing
noncancellable subleases, are as follows:

                                             (Dollars in Thousands)
                                    Gross Rent    Sublease Rent    Net Rent 
                                    ----------    -------------    --------
     1994 ....................       $103,531       $  9,297       $ 94,234
     1995 ....................         94,594          7,698         86,896
     1996 ....................         85,395          6,459         78,936
     1997 ....................         77,229          4,305         72,924
     1998 ....................         66,330          2,927         63,403
     Thereafter ..............        414,201         10,944        403,257

     Where appropriate,  management has established  reserves for the difference
between the cost of leased premises that were vacated and  anticipated  sublease
income.

11.  Fair Value of Financial Instruments

     SFAS No. 107 "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments," which
was adopted by the Company in 1992,  requires  all entities to disclose the fair
value of financial  instruments  for which it is  practicable  to estimate  fair
value.

     The following  methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial  instruments  for which it is practicable to estimate
that value:

Cash and marketable securities:

     Marketable  securities  consist  principally  of investments in short-term,
interest bearing instruments. The carrying amount approximates fair value.

Long-term investments:

     Included in deferred  charges and other  assets are  long-term  investments
which  consist  principally  of an  investment  in Aegis Group plc.,  a publicly
traded company,  carried at fair market value and related stock warrants carried
at cost. The fair value of the warrants was  determined  using an option pricing
model. The remaining amounts, carried at cost, approximate estimated fair value.

Long-term debt:

     The fair value of the Company's convertible  subordinated  debenture issues
was  determined  by reference  to  quotations  available in markets  where those
issues are traded.  These quotations  primarily  reflect the conversion value of
the debentures into the Company's common stock.  These debentures are redeemable



                                      F-14


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

by the Company, at prices explained in Note 7, which are significantly less than
the quoted market prices used in determining  the fair value.  The fair value of
the Company's  remaining long-term debt was estimated based on the current rates
offered to the Company for debt with the same remaining maturities.

Swap agreements and forward contracts:

     The fair  value  of  interest  rate  swaps  and  forward  contracts  is the
estimated  amount  that  the  Company  would  receive  or pay to  terminate  the
agreements at December 31, 1993.

     The estimated fair value of the Company's financial instruments at December
31, 1993 is as follows:

                                                   (Dollars in Thousands)
                                                   Carrying        Fair
                                                    Amount        Value
                                                  ---------     ---------
     Cash and marketable securities .........     $ 212,836     $ 212,836
     Long-term investments ..................        26,015        27,672
     Long-term debt .........................       300,204       370,941

     Other financial instruments:
        Interest rate swaps .................          --          (2,457)
        Forward contracts ...................          (288)         (288)

12.  Special Charge and Adoption of New Accounting Principles

     Effective  January 1, 1992,  the Company  adopted SFAS No. 106 and SFAS No.
109.  The  cumulative  after tax  effect  of the  adoption  of these  Statements
increased net income by $3.8 million, substantially all of which related to SFAS
No. 109. Due to the continued  weakening of the commercial real estate market in
certain domestic and international  locations and the  reorganization of certain
operations,  the Company  provided a special  charge of $6.7 million  pretax for
losses related to future lease costs.

       Effective  January  1,  1994,  the  Company  will  adopt  SFAS  No.  112,
"Employers'  Accounting  for  Postemployment  Benefits"  ("SFAS No.  112").  The
Company  estimates  that  the  adoption  of  SFAS  No.  112  will  result  in an
unfavorable after tax effect on net income of approximately $27 million.



                                      F-15


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)

     The following table sets forth a summary of the unaudited quarterly results
of operations  for the two years ended  December 31, 1993 and 1992, in thousands
of dollars except for per share amounts.

                                     First       Second      Third       Fourth 
                                   ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------
Commissions & Fees
    1993 .......................   $ 339,139   $ 381,758   $ 339,531   $ 456,047
    1992 .......................     308,888     347,561     327,750     400,962

Income Before Special Charge
  and Income Taxes
    1993 .......................      24,738      49,274      19,581      49,031
    1992 .......................      24,093      39,441      23,042      42,434

Special Charge
    1993 .......................        --          --          --          -- 
    1992 .......................       6,714        --          --          -- 

Income Before Income Taxes
    1993 .......................      24,738      49,274      19,581      49,031
    1992 .......................      17,379      39,441      23,042      42,434

Income Taxes
    1993 .......................      10,390      20,678       8,228      20,575
    1992 .......................       7,678      16,993      10,633      17,964

Income After Income Taxes
    1993 .......................      14,348      28,596      11,353      28,456
    1992 .......................       9,701      22,448      12,409      24,470

Equity in Affiliates
    1993 .......................       1,692       2,674       1,769       7,045
    1992 .......................       2,103       4,081         125       3,289

Minority Interests
    1993 .......................      (1,584)     (4,008)       (276)    (4,720)
    1992 .......................      (2,876)     (4,172)     (2,157)    (3,923)

Cumulative Effect of Change
  in Accounting Principles
    1993 .......................        --          --          --          -- 
    1992 .......................       3,800        --          --          -- 

Net Income
    1993 .......................      14,456      27,262      12,846      30,781
    1992 .......................      12,728      22,357      10,377      23,836

Primary Earnings Per Share
    1993 .......................        0.50        0.90        0.43        0.95
    1992 .......................        0.45        0.78        0.37        0.84

Fully Diluted Earnings Per Share
    1993 .......................        0.49        0.82        0.43        0.87
    1992 .......................        0.45        0.72        0.37        0.76



                                      F-16


                                                                    Schedule II

                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

      SCHEDULE II--AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES, UNDERWRITERS,
              PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES

                  For the Three Years Ended December 31, 1993


- -----------
(1) See footnote on Page S-2



                                      S-1



                                                                   Schedule II

                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

      SCHEDULE II--AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES, UNDERWRITERS,
        PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES (Continued)

                  For the Three Years Ended December 31, 1993



                                      S-2



                                                                   Schedule VIII

                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                SCHEDULE VIII--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                  For the Three Years Ended December 31, 1993







                                      S-3



                                                                     Schedule IX


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       SCHEDULE IX--SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

                  For the Three Years Ended December 31, 1993







                                      S-4

                                                                      Schedule X

                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             SCHEDULE X--SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

                  For the Three Years Ended December 31, 1993






                                      S-5



