
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                              --------------------

                                    FORM 10-K

                                  ANNUAL REPORT

                     Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended: December 31, 1997     Commission File Number: 1-10551

                              --------------------

                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               New York                                      13-1514814
    (State or other jurisdiction of                       (I.R.S. Employer 
     incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)

    437 Madison Avenue, New York, NY                           10022
(Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 415-3600

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                      Name of each exchange
         Title of each class                           on which registered
         -------------------                           -------------------
     Common Stock, $.50 Par Value                    New York Stock Exchange

      Securities  Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE Indicate
by check mark whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports  required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes _X_    No ___

      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  registrant's   knowledge,  in  the  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

      At  March  16,  1998,  there  were  169,335,907  shares  of  Common  Stock
outstanding;   the   aggregate   market  value  of  the  voting  stock  held  by
nonaffiliates at March 16, 1998 was approximately $7,541,593,000.

      Indicate  the  number of shares  outstanding  of each of the  registrant's
classes of stock, as of the latest practicable date.

           Class                                 Outstanding at March 16, 1998
 Common Stock, $.50 Par Value                             169,335,907
 Preferred Stock, $1.00 Par Value                             NONE

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain portions of the Registrant's  definitive proxy statement relating to its
annual  meeting  of  shareholders  scheduled  to be  held on May  18,  1998  are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.

================================================================================



                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.

                         ------------------------------

                       Index to Annual Report on Form 10-K
                          Year Ended December 31, 1997

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----

PART I

Item 1.    Business..........................................................  1
Item 2.    Properties........................................................  4
Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.................................................  5
Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders...............  5
Executive Officers of the Company............................................  6

PART II

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related 
               Stockholder Matters...........................................  7
Item 6.    Selected Financial Data...........................................  8
Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
               Results of Operations.........................................  8
Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data....................... 12
Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
               Financial Disclosure.......................................... 12

PART III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant................ 12
Item 11.   Executive Compensation............................................ 12
Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.... 12
Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.................... 12

      The  information  called for by Items 10, 11, 12 and 13, to the extent not
included  in  this  document,  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  such
information to be included under the captions  "Election of Directors,"  "Common
Stock  Ownership  of  Management,"  "Directors'   Compensation"  and  "Executive
Compensation," in the Company's  definitive proxy statement which is expected to
be filed by April 6, 1998.

PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and 
                Reports on Form 8-K ......................................... 13



                                     PART I

Item 1. Business

      Omnicom  Group  Inc.,  through  its wholly and  partially-owned  companies
(hereinafter  collectively referred to as the "Company" or the "Omnicom Group"),
operates advertising agencies which plan, create,  produce and place advertising
in various media such as television, radio, newspaper and magazines. The Omnicom
Group offers its clients  such  additional  services as marketing  consultation,
consumer  market  research,  design and  production of  merchandising  and sales
promotion   programs  and   materials,   direct  mail   advertising,   corporate
identification,  public relations,  and interactive marketing. The Omnicom Group
offers these services to clients worldwide on a local, national, pan-regional or
global basis.  Operations  cover the major regions of North America,  the United
Kingdom,  Continental  Europe, the Middle East, Africa,  Latin America,  the Far
East and Australia. In 1997 and 1996, 50% and 51%, respectively,  of the Omnicom
Group's billings came from its non-U.S. operations.

      According to the unaudited  industry-wide figures published in 1997 by the
trade  journal  Advertising  Age,  Omnicom  Group Inc.  was ranked as the second
largest advertising agency group worldwide.

      The Omnicom Group operates as three separate, independent agency networks:
the BBDO  Worldwide  Network,  the DDB  Needham  Worldwide  Network and the TBWA
International  Network.  The Omnicom  Group also  operates  several  independent
agencies,  including  Cline  Davis & Mann and  Goodby,  Silverstein  & Partners,
certain  marketing  service  and  specialty  advertising  companies  through its
Diversified Agency Services division ("DAS"), and certain interactive  marketing
companies through Communicade.

      In March 1998, the Company completed its acquisition of The GGT Group plc,
a UK  headquartered  advertising and marketing  services group.  The GGT Group's
principal  subsidiaries  operate in France,  the United  Kingdom  and the United
States.

The BBDO Worldwide, DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International Networks

General

      BBDO  Worldwide,   DDB  Needham  Worldwide  and  TBWA  International,   by
themselves   and  through  their   respective   subsidiaries   and   affiliates,
independently  operate  advertising  agency  networks  worldwide.  Their primary
business is to create  marketing  communications  for their  clients'  goods and
services across the total spectrum of advertising and promotion  media.  Each of
the agency networks has its own clients and competes with each other in the same
markets.

      The BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA International agencies
typically  assign to each client a group of  advertising  specialists  which may
include account  managers,  copywriters,  art directors and research,  media and
production personnel.  The account manager works with the client to establish an
overall advertising strategy for the client based on an analysis of the client's
products or services and its market. The group then creates and arranges for the
production of the  advertising  and/or  promotion and purchases  time,  space or
access in the relevant media in accordance with the client's budget.

BBDO Worldwide Network

      The BBDO  Worldwide  Network  operates in the United  States  through BBDO
Worldwide which is headquartered in New York and has full-service offices in New
York, New York;  Los Angeles,  California;  Miami,  Florida;  Atlanta,  Georgia;
Chicago,  Illinois;  Detroit,  Michigan;  and Minneapolis,  Minnesota.  The BBDO
Worldwide  Network  operates  internationally  through  subsidiaries in Austria,
Belgium,  Brazil,  Canada,  Chile, China,  Denmark,  Finland,  France,  Germany,
Greece,  Hong Kong, Hungary,  Italy,  Malaysia,  Mexico, the Netherlands,  Peru,
Poland,  Portugal,  Puerto Rico, Russia,  Singapore,  Spain, Sweden,  Taiwan and
Thailand;  through affiliates located in Argentina,  Australia,  Colombia, Costa
Rica,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  the Czech  Republic,  Egypt,  El Salvador,  Guatemala,
Honduras,  India,  Israel,  Kuwait,  Lebanon,  New Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Norway,
Panama, the Philippines, Romania, Saudi Arabia, the Slovak Republic, Turkey, the
United  Kingdom,  the United Arab  Emirates and  Venezuela;  and through a joint
venture in Japan.  The BBDO  Worldwide  Network  uses the  services of associate
agencies  in  Albania,  Bulgaria,  the  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Estonia,
Indonesia,  Korea,  Lithuania,   Pakistan,  Paraguay,  Slovenia,  South  Africa,
Switzerland, Uruguay and Yugoslavia.




DDB Needham Worldwide Network

      The DDB Needham  Worldwide  Network  operates in the United States through
The DDB Needham Worldwide  Communications  Group,  which is headquartered in New
York and has  full-service  offices in New York,  New York;  Los Angeles and San
Francisco,   California;   Dallas,  Texas;  Chicago,   Illinois;   and  Seattle,
Washington; and through Griffin Bacal Inc., which is headquartered in New York.

      The  DDB  Needham  Worldwide  Network  operates   internationally  through
subsidiaries in Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria,  Canada, China,
Colombia,  Croatia,  the Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Finland,  France,
Germany,   Greece,  Hong  Kong,  Hungary,  Italy,  Japan,  Latvia,  Mexico,  the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, the Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Singapore,
the Slovak Republic, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, Thailand and the United Kingdom; and
through affiliates located in Miami,  Florida and in Argentina,  Brazil,  Chile,
Costa Rica, El Salvador, Germany,  Guatemala,  Honduras, India, Korea, Malaysia,
Panama,  Poland,  Switzerland,  Turkey,  Uruguay and Venezuela.  The DDB Needham
Worldwide Network uses the services of associate  agencies in Honolulu,  Hawaii;
Austria,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Belarus, Belize, Bolivia, Cyprus, the Dominican
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, Georgia, Guam, Indonesia,  Ireland,  Israel, Jordan,
Kuwait,  Lebanon,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Monaco,  Morocco,  Nicaragua,  Oman,
Pakistan,  Paraguay,  Peru, Puerto Rico, Russia, Saudi Arabia,  Slovenia,  South
Africa, Trinidad,  Tunisia, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Vietnam,
the Former  Yugoslav  Republic of Macedonia and  Yugoslavia.  Griffin Bacal Inc.
operates  internationally  through subsidiaries in Canada and the United Kingdom
and through a branch in Mexico.

TBWA International Network

      The TBWA  International  Network  operates in North  America  through TBWA
Chiat/Day which is headquartered in New York and has full-service offices in New
York, New York; and Los Angeles and San Francisco,  California,  through Ketchum
Advertising in Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania;  and through TBWA Chiat/Day  Canada in
Toronto,  Canada. The TBWA International  Network also operates in North America
through its affiliate, TBWA Chiat/Day Mexico.

      The  TBWA   International   Network   operates   internationally   through
subsidiaries in Austria,  Australia,  Belgium,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Croatia, the
Czech Republic,  Denmark,  France,  Germany,  Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, India,
Italy,  the  Netherlands,  Poland,  Portugal,  Romania,  Singapore,  the  Slovak
Republic, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand and the United Kingdom; and
through  affiliates  located  in  Argentina,  Canada,  Chile,  China,  the Czech
Republic, Finland, Hungary, Israel, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. The TBWA
International  Network  uses the  services  of  associate  agencies  in Austria,
Australia,  Cyprus,  Egypt,  Ireland,  Indonesia,  Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lebanon,  Namibia,  New Zealand,  Russia, Saudi Arabia,  Slovenia,  South Korea,
Syria, Taiwan, the United Arab Emirates and Zimbabwe.

Diversified Agency Services

      DAS is the Omnicom Group's Marketing Services and Specialty Communications
Division.  The DAS mission is to create  breakthrough  customer driven marketing
communications and services that build clients'  businesses.  Marketing services
include:  branding  consultancy   (Interbrand),   contract  publishing  (Premier
Magazines,  Specialist  Publications),  corporate and financial public relations
(Gavin Anderson & Company),  direct/database  marketing (Rapp Collins Worldwide,
Russ   Reid),   field   marketing   (CPM   International),   graphic   arts  (RC
Communications),  integrated  communications (The FOCUS Agency,  Integer Group),
organizational  communications  (Smythe Dorward Lambert),  promotional marketing
(Alcone Marketing Group, The Anvil Consultancy,  CaseoDunlap, Pathways Marketing
Consultants,  Product  Plus  International,  TLP,  Inc.),  public  affairs  (GPC
International),  public  relations  (Copithorne  &  Bellows,  Fleishman-Hillard,
Ketchum Public Relations Worldwide,  Porter Novelli  International),  reputation
management  (Clark &  Weinstock),  sports and event  marketing  (GMR  Marketing,
Millsport)   and   telemarketing   (Optima   Direct,    InTelMark).    Specialty
communications  include:  corporate/financial  advertising  (Doremus & Company),
directory advertising (Ketchum Directory Advertising), healthcare communications
(Diversified  Healthcare  Communications Group, Health & Medical  Communications
Group,  TARGIS Healthcare  Communications  Worldwide),  managed care consultancy
(GMR Group) and recruitment communications (Bernard Hodes Advertising, Macmillan
Davies  Hodes).  DAS also operates  independent  consumer  advertising  (Merkley
Newman Harty) and media buying (Creative Media) agencies.




      DAS has  headquarter  offices  in New  York,  London  and Hong  Kong,  and
operates globally through its 62 companies in 22 strategic  business units, with
subsidiaries,  affiliates  and  associates  in  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria,
Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic,
Denmark, the Dominican Republic,  Ecuador,  Finland,  France,  Germany,  Greece,
Guatemala,  Hungary,  India,  Indonesia,  Ireland,  Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea,
Malaysia,  Mexico, Myanmar, the Netherlands,  New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Peru,
the Philippines,  Poland, Portugal,  Puerto Rico, Russia,  Singapore, the Slovak
Republic, South Africa, Spain, Sweden,  Switzerland,  Taiwan, Thailand,  Turkey,
the United Arab Emirates,  the United Kingdom, the United States,  Venezuela and
Vietnam.

Communicade

      Communicade has minority  interests in six interactive  marketing agencies
in the United States:  AGENCY.COM,  Razorfish and Think New Ideas, headquartered
in New  York;  Red  Sky  Interactive  and  Organic  Online,  in  San  Francisco,
California;  and Interactive Solutions,  in Boston,  Massachusetts.  Communicade
also  operates  through a wholly  owned  subsidiary,  Eagle  River  Interactive,
headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.

Omnicom Group Inc.

      As the parent  company of BBDO  Worldwide,  DDB  Needham  Worldwide,  TBWA
International,  DAS, Communicade and several independent agencies,  the Company,
through its wholly-owned  subsidiary Omnicom Management Inc.,  provides a common
financial and administrative base for the operating groups. The Company oversees
the  operations of each group  through  regular  meetings with their  respective
top-level management.  The Company sets operational goals for each of the groups
and  evaluates  performance  through  the  review  of  monthly  operational  and
financial  reports.  The Company provides its groups with  centralized  services
designed to coordinate financial reporting and controls,  tax, treasury and real
estate planning, and to focus corporate development objectives. The Company also
develops  consolidated  services  for its  agencies  and their  clients  such as
consolidated media buying arrangements. 

Clients

      The clients of the Omnicom Group include major  industrial,  financial and
service industry companies as well as smaller,  local clients. Among its largest
clients  are  Anheuser-Busch,   Chrysler,   Henkel,  Johnson  &  Johnson,  Mars,
McDonald's, Nissan, PepsiCo, Pfizer, SBC Communications,  Sony, Tricon, Visa and
Volkswagen.

      The Omnicom Group's ten largest clients accounted for approximately 20% of
1997  commission and fees. The majority of these have been clients for more than
ten years. The Omnicom Group's largest client accounted for less than 6% of 1997
commission and fees.

Revenues

      Commissions  charged on media billings represent a significant  proportion
of revenues  for the  Omnicom  Group.  Commission  rates are not uniform and are
negotiated  with the client.  In accordance  with industry  practice,  the media
source  typically  bills  the  agency  for the time or space  purchased  and the
Omnicom Group bills its client for this amount plus the commission.  The Omnicom
Group  typically  requires  that payment for media  charges be received from the
client before the agency makes payments to the media. In some instances a member
of the Omnicom Group, like other advertising  agencies,  is at risk in the event
that its client is unable to pay the media.

      The  Omnicom  Group's  advertising  networks  also  generate  revenues  by
arranging for the production of advertisements and commercials.  Although,  as a
general matter, the Omnicom Group does not itself produce the advertisements and
commercials,  the Omnicom  Group's  creative and  production  staff  directs and
supervises the production company. Agencies bill the client for production costs
plus a commission. In some circumstances, certain production work is done by the
Omnicom Group's personnel.

      In  many  cases,  fees  are  generated  in lieu  of  commissions.  Several
different fee  arrangements  are used depending on client and individual  agency
needs. In general,  fee charges relate to the cost of providing  services plus a
markup.  The DAS  division  primarily  charges  fees for its  various  specialty
services,  which vary in type and scale, depending upon the service rendered and
the client's requirements.




      Advertising agency revenues are dependent upon the marketing  requirements
of clients  and tend to be highest  in the  second  and fourth  quarters  of the
fiscal year.

Other Information

      For additional  information  concerning the  contribution of international
operations  to  commissions  and fees and net  income see Note 5 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

      The  advertising  business is highly  competitive  and  accounts may shift
agencies with  comparative  ease,  usually on 90 days' notice.  Clients may also
reduce  advertising  budgets at any time for any reason.  An agency's ability to
compete for new clients is affected in some instances by the policy,  which many
advertisers  follow,  of not permitting their agencies to represent  competitive
accounts in the same market. As a result,  increasing size may limit an agency's
potential  for  securing  certain new  clients.  In the vast  majority of cases,
however,  the separate,  independent  identities of BBDO Worldwide,  DDB Needham
Worldwide,   TBWA  International,   the  independent  agencies  within  DAS  and
Communicade,  and the other independent  agencies have enabled the Omnicom Group
to represent competing clients.

      The Omnicom  agencies have sought,  and will seek, new business by showing
potential clients examples of advertising  campaigns  produced and by explaining
the  variety of related  services  offered.  The Omnicom  Group  competes in the
United States and  internationally  with a multitude of full service and special
service  agencies.  In  addition to the usual  risks of the  advertising  agency
business,  international operations are subject to the risk of currency exchange
fluctuations,  exchange  control  restrictions  and to actions  of  governmental
authorities.

Employees

      The  business  success of the Omnicom  Group is, and will  continue to be,
highly dependent upon the skills and creativity of its creative, research, media
and account personnel and their relationships with clients. The Company believes
its operating groups have  established  reputations for creativity and marketing
expertise  which  attract,  retain and stimulate  talented  personnel.  There is
substantial  competition among advertising  agencies for talented  personnel and
all  agencies  are  vulnerable  to  adverse  consequences  from  the loss of key
individuals. Employees are generally not under employment contracts and are free
to move to  competitors  of the Omnicom  Group.  The Company  believes  that its
compensation  arrangements  for its key employees,  which include stock options,
restricted  stock and retirement  plans,  are highly  competitive  with those of
other  advertising  agencies.  As of  December  31,  1997,  the  Omnicom  Group,
excluding  unconsolidated  companies,  employed approximately 27,200 persons, of
which approximately  11,900 were employed in the United States and approximately
15,300 were employed in its international offices.

Government Regulation

      The advertising business is subject to government regulation,  both within
and outside the United States.  In the United States,  federal,  state and local
governments  and their  agencies and various  consumer  groups have  directly or
indirectly  affected  or  attempted  to affect the scope,  content and manner of
presentation  of  advertising.  The  continued  activity  by  government  and by
consumer  groups  regarding  advertising  may cause  further  change in domestic
advertising  practices  in the  coming  years.  While the  Company  is unable to
estimate  the  effect of these  developments  on its U.S.  business,  management
believes the total volume of  advertising  in general media in the United States
will not be materially  reduced due to future  legislation or  regulation,  even
though the form,  content,  and manner of  presentation  of  advertising  may be
modified.  In addition,  the Company will continue to ensure that its management
and  operating  personnel  are  aware  of and  are  responsive  to the  possible
implications of such developments.

Item 2. Properties

      Substantially all of the Company's offices are located in leased premises.
The Company  actively  manages its lease  obligations  and,  where  appropriate,
consolidates its leased premises.  Management has obtained subleases for most of
the  premises  vacated as a result of such  consolidations.  Where  appropriate,
management has established  reserves for the difference  between the cost of the
leased premises that were vacated and anticipated sublease income.




Domestic

      The Company's  corporate office occupies  approximately  32,000 sq. ft. of
space at 437 Madison  Avenue,  New York,  New York under a lease expiring in the
year 2010.

      BBDO  Worldwide  occupies  approximately  285,000 sq. ft. of space at 1285
Avenue of the Americas,  New York,  New York under a lease  expiring in the year
2012, which includes options for additional space to allow for the growth of the
agency.

      DDB Needham Worldwide occupies  approximately  251,000 sq. ft. of space at
437 Madison  Avenue,  New York, New York under leases expiring in the year 2010,
which  include  options  for  additional  space to allow  for the  growth of the
agency.

      TBWA  Chiat/Day  occupies  approximately  58,000  sq.  ft. of space at 180
Maiden Lane, New York,  New York under a lease expiring in the year 2016,  which
includes options for additional space to allow for the growth of the agency.

      Offices in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Detroit, Houston, Irvine, Los
Angeles, Mahwah, Minneapolis, New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, San Francisco,
San Jose,  Seattle and  Washington  D.C. and at various other  locations  occupy
approximately  an  aggregate  of  3,320,000  sq. ft. of space under  leases with
varying expiration dates.

International

      The Company's international  subsidiaries in Australia,  Austria, Belgium,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Croatia, the Czech Republic,  Denmark, Finland,
France,  Germany,  Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary,  Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malaysia,
Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Puerto Rico,  Romania,  Singapore,  the Slovak  Republic,  South Africa,  Spain,
Sweden,  Taiwan,  Thailand and the United Kingdom  occupy  premises under leases
with various expiration dates.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

      The Company has no material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary
routine litigation incidental to its business.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      A Special  Meeting of  Shareholders of the Company was held on December 1,
1997 to  consider  and vote upon a  proposal  to  approve  an  amendment  to the
Company's  Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  increasing  the  number  of
authorized shares of Common Stock, par value $.50 per share, from 150,000,000 to
300,000,000  to allow the Company to issue  additional  shares for a two-for-one
stock  split in the form of a dividend  declared  by the Board of  Directors  in
September 1997  contingent  upon  shareholder  approval,  among other  corporate
purposes.  The proposal was approved  with  70,083,831  affirmative  votes being
cast, 179,029 negative votes being cast and 97,104 abstentions.

      No other matters were  submitted to a vote of security  holders during the
last quarter of 1997.




Executive Officers of the Company

      The  individuals  named below are  Executive  Officers of the Company and,
except as indicated  below,  have held their current  positions  during the last
five years:

         Name                          Position                              Age
        ------                         --------                             ----
Bruce Crawford.......  Chairman of Omnicom Group                             69
John D. Wren.........  Chief Executive Officer & President of 
                         Omnicom Group and Chairman & Chief Executive 
                         Officer of Diversified Agency Services              45
Fred J. Meyer .......  Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group              67
Dennis E. Hewitt.....  Treasurer of Omnicom Group                            53
Barry J. Wagner......  Secretary & General Counsel of Omnicom Group          57
Jonathan E. Ramsden..  Controller of Omnicom Group                           33
Allen Rosenshine.....  Chairman & Chief Executive Officer of 
                         BBDO Worldwide                                      59
James A. Cannon .....  Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer 
                         of BBDO Worldwide                                   59
Keith L. Reinhard....  Chairman & Chief Executive Officer of 
                         DDB Needham Worldwide                               63
William G. Tragos....  Chairman & Chief Executive Officer of  
                         TBWA International                                  63

      John  D.  Wren  was  appointed  Chief  Executive  Officer  of the  Company
effective January 1, 1997,  succeeding Bruce Crawford in the position.  Mr. Wren
was  appointed  President  of the Company and  Chairman  of  Diversified  Agency
Services in September 1995. Mr. Wren was appointed  Chief  Executive  Officer of
Diversified  Agency  Services in May 1993.  Mr. Wren had served as  President of
Diversified Agency Services since February 1992, having previously served as its
Executive Vice President and General Manager.

      Fred J. Meyer joined the Company in April 1988 as Chief Financial Officer.
Mr. Meyer was previously  Senior Vice President and Chief  Financial  Officer of
CBS Inc.

      Dennis E. Hewitt was promoted to Treasurer of the Company in January 1994.
Mr. Hewitt joined the Company in May 1988 as Assistant Treasurer.

      Barry J. Wagner was  promoted  to  Secretary  and  General  Counsel of the
Company  in May 1995.  Mr.  Wagner was  previously  Assistant  Secretary  of the
Company.

      Jonathan E.  Ramsden was  promoted  to  Controller  of the Company in June
1996.  Mr. Ramsden joined the Company in March 1996 after nine years with Arthur
Andersen.

      Similar  information with respect to the remaining  Executive  Officers of
the Company, who are all directors of the Company, can be found in the Company's
definitive proxy statement expected to be filed April 6, 1998.

      The Executive  Officers of the Company are elected annually  following the
annual meeting of the shareholders of their respective employers.




                                     PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

      Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend History

      The Company's  Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol  "OMC".  The table below shows the range of reported last sale prices
on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape for the Company's common stock for
the periods  indicated and the dividends  paid per share on the common stock for
such periods;  the reported last sales price on March 16, 1998 was $453/16.  All
sales prices and per share  amounts give effect to the  two-for-one  stock split
completed in December 1997.

                                                                  Dividends Paid
                                                                   Per Share of
                                          High        Low          Common Stock
                                          -----      -----         -------------
      First Quarter.....................  22 1/2      17 13/16         .0875
      Second Quarter....................  23 1/4      20 1/8           .0875
      Third Quarter.....................  23 7/8      19 9/16          .10
      Fourth Quarter....................  25 3/4      22               .10
      First Quarter.....................  26 7/16     22 5/16          .10
      Second Quarter....................  32 1/8      23 15/16         .10
      Third Quarter.....................  37 1/8      31 1/32          .125
      Fourth Quarter....................  42 3/8      33               .125

      The  Company  is not aware of any  restrictions  on its  present or future
ability  to  pay  dividends.  However,  in  connection  with  certain  borrowing
facilities  entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries  (see Note 7 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial  Statements),  the Company is subject to certain
restrictions on the ratio of debt to cash flow, the ratio of total  consolidated
indebtedness  to  total  consolidated  capitalization  and its  ability  to make
investments in and loans to affiliates and unconsolidated subsidiaries.

      On February 3, 1998 the Board of  Directors  declared a regular  quarterly
dividend of $0.125 per share of common  stock,  payable April 2, 1998 to holders
of record on March 13, 1998.

      Approximate Number of Equity Security Holders

                                                      Approximate Number of
                                                          Record Holders
       Title of Class                                    on March 16, 1998
       --------------                                 ----------------------
Common Stock, $.50 par value.........................         3,365
Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value ....................          None




Item 6. Selected Financial Data

      The following table sets forth selected  financial data of the Company and
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated  financial  statements which
begin on page F-1. All per share  amounts give effect to the  two-for-one  stock
split completed in December 1997.



Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Results of Operations

      In 1997,  domestic  revenues  from  commissions  and fees  increased  16.8
percent.  The effect of acquisitions,  net of divestitures,  accounted for a 2.7
percent  increase.  The remaining 14.1 percent increase was due to the growth of
existing  businesses,  including net new business  gains and higher net spending
from existing clients.

      In 1996,  domestic  revenues  from  commissions  and fees  increased  23.9
percent.  The effect of acquisitions,  net of divestitures,  accounted for a 7.4
percent  increase.  The remaining 16.5 percent increase was due to the growth of
existing  businesses,  including net new business  gains and higher net spending
from existing clients.

      In 1995,  domestic  revenues  from  commissions  and fees  increased  12.8
percent.  The effect of acquisitions,  net of divestitures,  accounted for a 1.5
percent  increase.  The remaining 11.3 percent increase was due to the growth of
existing  businesses,  including net new business  gains and higher net spending
from existing clients.

      In 1997,  international  revenues  increased  19.9 percent.  The effect of
acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for a 16.2 percent  increase in
international revenues. Changes in the foreign exchange value of the U.S. dollar
decreased  international  revenues by 10.3 percent.  The remaining  14.0 percent
increase  was  due to the  growth  of  existing  businesses,  including  net new
business gains and higher net spending from existing clients.

      In 1996,  international  revenues  increased  10.3 percent.  The effect of
acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for a 3.2  percent  increase in
international revenues. Changes in the foreign exchange value of the U.S. dollar
decreased  international  revenues by 3.4 percent.  The  remaining  10.5 percent
increase  was  due to the  growth  of  existing  businesses,  including  net new
business gains and higher net spending from existing clients.




      In 1995,  international  revenues  increased  24.3 percent.  The effect of
acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  accounted  for a 5.9  percent  increase in
international revenues. The weakening of the U.S. dollar increased international
revenues by 6.7 percent.  The  remaining  11.7  percent  increase was due to the
growth of existing  businesses,  including net new business gains and higher net
spending from existing clients.

      In  1997,   worldwide   operating   expenses   increased   17.5   percent.
Acquisitions,  net of divestitures during the year,  accounted for a 7.9 percent
increase in worldwide operating expenses.  Changes in the foreign exchange value
of the U.S. dollar decreased  worldwide  operating expenses by 4.7 percent.  The
remaining 14.3 percent increase was caused by normal salary increases and growth
in out-of-pocket expenditures to service the increased revenue base. Net foreign
exchange gains did not significantly impact operating expenses for the year.

      In  1996,   worldwide   operating   expenses   increased   16.5   percent.
Acquisitions,  net of divestitures during the year,  accounted for a 4.9 percent
increase in worldwide operating expenses.  Changes in the foreign exchange value
of the U.S. dollar decreased  worldwide  operating expenses by 1.6 percent.  The
remaining   13.2   percent   increase   was  caused  by  increases  in  employee
compensation,   including  relatively  higher  levels  of  bonus  and  incentive
compensation and severance payments, and growth in out-of-pocket expenditures to
service  the  increased  revenue  base.  Net  foreign  exchange  gains  did  not
significantly impact operating expenses for the year.

      In  1995,   worldwide   operating   expenses   increased   17.4   percent.
Acquisitions,  net of divestitures during the year,  accounted for a 3.9 percent
increase in worldwide  operating  expenses.  The  weakening  of the U.S.  dollar
increased  worldwide  operating  expenses by 3.2  percent.  The  remaining  10.3
percent   increase  was  caused  by  normal  salary   increases  and  growth  in
out-of-pocket  expenditures  to service the increased  revenue base. Net foreign
exchange gains did not significantly impact operating expenses for the year.

      Net interest expense in 1997 increased $1.0 million.  The effect of higher
average borrowings during the year, resulting in part from the issuance of the 4
1/4%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures,  was offset by the effect of higher
average amounts of cash and marketable securities invested during the year.

      Net interest  expense in 1996  decreased  $6.9  million,  due primarily to
lower average  interest rates on borrowings and the conversion of the 4.5%/6.25%
Step-Up Convertible Subordinated Debentures in September 1996.

      Net interest  expense in 1995 was  comparable  to net interest  expense in
1994. The effect of higher average  borrowings during the year was offset by the
effect of higher  average  amounts of cash and  marketable  securities  invested
during the year.

      In 1997, the effective tax rate  increased to 41.0 percent.  This increase
primarily reflects higher tax rates at the Company's international subsidiaries.

      In 1996, the effective tax rate  increased to 40.5 percent.  This increase
reflects an increase in the effective rate of state and local taxes.

      In 1995,  the effective tax rate  decreased to 40.1 percent.  The decrease
reflects a reduction in the effect of nondeductible  goodwill amortization and a
decrease in the effective rate of state and local taxes.

      In 1997, consolidated net income increased 26.1 percent. This increase was
the result of revenue  growth,  margin  improvement,  and an  increase in equity
income, partially offset by an increase in minority interest expense.  Operating
margin,  which excludes net interest expense,  increased to 12.9 percent in 1997
from 12.4 percent in 1996 as a result of greater  growth in  commission  and fee
revenue than the growth in operating expenses. The increase in equity income was
primarily  due to  greater  profits  earned  by the  Company's  existing  equity
affiliates.  The  increase  in  minority  interest  expense was caused by higher
earnings  from  companies  in which  minority  interests  exist  and  additional
minority  interests  resulting  from  acquisitions.   In  1997,  the  impact  of
acquisitions,  net of  divestitures,  resulted  in a 16.0  percent  increase  in
consolidated net income, while changes in the foreign exchange value of the U.S.
dollar decreased consolidated net income by 5.0 percent.

      In 1996, consolidated net income increased 26.0 percent. This increase was
the result of revenue growth and margin  improvement.  Operating  margin,  which
excludes  net  interest  expense,  increased  to 12.4  percent in 1996 from 12.0
percent in 1995 as a result of greater growth in commission and fee revenue than
the growth in operating  expenses.  In 1996, the impact of acquisitions,  net of
divestitures,  resulted in a 2.7 percent  increase in  consolidated  net income,
while  changes  in the  foreign  exchange  value  of the U.S.  dollar  decreased
consolidated net income by 2.4 percent.




      In 1995,  consolidated  net income increased 25.5 percent compared to 1994
consolidated  net income  before the adoption of SFAS 112. This increase was the
result of revenue growth, margin improvement,  and an increase in equity income,
partially offset by an increase in minority interest expense.  Operating margin,
increased  to 12.0  percent  in 1995  from 11.3  percent  in 1994 as a result of
greater  growth in  commission  and fee  revenue  than the  growth in  operating
expenses.  The increase in equity income was primarily due to increased earnings
of the Company's existing equity  affiliates.  The increase in minority interest
expense was caused by higher earnings from companies in which minority interests
exist. In 1995, the impact of divestitures,  net of acquisitions,  resulted in a
4.4 percent decrease in consolidated net income, while the weakening of the U.S.
dollar against  several  international  currencies  increased  consolidated  net
income by 3.4 percent.

      The Company anticipates  relatively favorable growth rates in its domestic
and international markets.

      At December 31, 1997,  accounts  receivable  less  allowance  for doubtful
accounts,  increased by $353.1  million from  December 31, 1996. At December 31,
1997, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities increased by $525.2 million
and $108.6 million,  respectively,  from December 31, 1996. These increases were
primarily due to an increased volume of activity  resulting from business growth
and  acquisitions  during  the  year  and,  in the  case  of  accounts  payable,
differences  in the timing of payments to media and other  suppliers  in 1997 as
compared to 1996.

      Effective January 1, 1994, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement
of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  112   "Employers'   Accounting  for
Postemployment  Benefits".  The  cumulative  after tax effect of the adoption of
this statement decreased net income by $28.0 million.

      The Company's international operations are subject to the risk of currency
exchange rate fluctuations.  This risk is generally limited to the net income of
the  operations  as the revenues and expenses of the  operations  are  generally
denominated in the same currency.  The Company or its  international  operations
may in some cases  enter  into  hedging  transactions  to  minimize  the risk of
adverse currency  exchange rate fluctuations on the net income of the operation.
The  Company's  major  international  markets are the United  Kingdom,  Germany,
France, the Netherlands,  Canada,  Spain,  Brazil, and Australia.  The Company's
operations are also subject to the risk of interest rate fluctuations.

      As part of managing  the  Company's  exposures  to currency  exchange  and
market interest rates, the Company periodically enters into derivative financial
instruments.   Derivative  financial  instruments  are  subject  to  market  and
counterparty  risk. Market risk is the potential for loss resulting from changes
in market  conditions.  The Company  periodically  determines the potential loss
from market risk by performing a value-at-risk computation. Value-at-risk uses a
statistical  model that utilizes  historic  currency  exchange and interest rate
data to  measure  the  potential  impact on  future  earnings  of the  Company's
existing  portfolio  of  derivative  financial  instruments.  The  value-at-risk
analysis  performed on the Company's  December 31, 1997  portfolio of derivative
financial   instruments   indicated  that  the  risk  of  loss  was  immaterial.
Counterparty  risk  arises  from the  inability  of a  counterparty  to meet its
obligations.  In order to minimize  counterparty  risk,  the Company only enters
into derivative  contracts with major  well-known banks that have credit ratings
equal to or better than the Company's.

      The Company's derivative  activities are limited in volume and confined to
risk management  activities  related to the Company's  worldwide  operations.  A
reporting  system  is in place  which  evaluates  the  impact  on the  Company's
earnings  resulting from changes in interest rates,  currency exchange rates and
other  relevant  market  risks.  This  system is  structured  to  enable  senior
management to initiate prompt remedial action, if appropriate.

      At December 31, 1997 and 1996,  the Company had forward  foreign  exchange
contracts  outstanding  with an  aggregate  notional  principal  amount  of $584
million and $301 million,  respectively,  most of which were  denominated in the
Company's major international market currencies.  These contracts  predominantly
hedge certain of the Company's  intercompany  receivables and payables which are
recorded in a currency  different from that in which they will settle. The terms
of these contracts are generally three months or less.

      At  December  31,  1997 and  1996,  the  Company  had no other  derivative
contracts outstanding.




Year 2000 Issue

      The Year 2000 issue is the result of computer programs being written using
two digits, rather than four, to define the applicable year. Accordingly, any of
the computer programs utilized by the Company, that have date sensitive software
may cause system failures or miscalculations if data entry of "00" is recognized
as a date other than 2000.

      The Company has determined  that it is required to modify  portions of its
software  so that its  computer  systems  will  properly  utilize  dates  beyond
December 31, 1999. The Company is dependent on third-party  computer systems and
applications,  particularly  with respect to such critical  tasks as accounting,
billing  and  buying,  planning  and  paying  for  media,  as well as on its own
computer systems and internally developed  applications.  The Company intends to
modify or replace all affected  systems for  compliance,  and is also monitoring
the adequacy of the  processes  and progress of  third-party  vendors of systems
that may be  affected by the Year 2000 issue.  The  Company  believes  that with
upgrades or modifications  to existing  software and conversion to new software,
the impact of the Year 2000 issue can be overcome.  However,  if such  upgrades,
modifications  and conversions are not made, or are not made in a timely manner,
the Year 2000 issue could have a material impact on the Company's operations.

      The  Company  will  utilize  both  internal  and  external   resources  to
reprogram,  or replace, and test software for Year 2000 compliance.  The Company
has a team of managers  dedicated to  addressing  Year 2000  compliance  for the
Company,  clients  and  vendors.  The  costs  of the  project  have not yet been
determined  but are  not  expected  to have a  material  adverse  effect  on the
Company.  Amounts  incurred are expected to be expensed as incurred,  unless new
software is purchased  which will be  capitalized.  The Company has not incurred
significant costs to date.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

      Cash and cash  equivalents  increased  $46.2 million during 1997 to $556.4
million at December 31, 1997.  The Company's  positive net cash flow provided by
operating  activities  was  maintained,   in  part,  by  a  continued  favorable
relationship  between the  collection of accounts  receivable and the payment of
obligations  to media  and  other  suppliers.  After  annual  cash  outlays  for
dividends paid to shareholders and minority  interests and the repurchase of the
Company's  common  stock for  employee  programs,  the balance of the cash flow,
together with the proceeds from issuance of debt  obligations,  was used to fund
acquisitions, make capital expenditures and repay debt obligations.

      On  January  3,  1997,  the  Company  issued  $218.5  million  of  4  1/4%
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  with a scheduled  maturity  in 2007.  The
debentures  are  convertible  into common  stock of the Company at a  conversion
price of $31.50 per share  subject to adjustment  in certain  events.  Debenture
holders  have the right to  require  the  Company to redeem  the  debentures  on
January 3, 2003 at a price of 112.418%,  or upon the occurrence of a Fundamental
Change,  as defined in the indenture  agreement,  at the  prevailing  redemption
price. The Company may redeem the debentures, as a whole or in part, on or after
December 29, 2000 initially at 108.324% and at increasing  prices  thereafter to
112.418% until January 2, 2003, and 100%  thereafter.  Unless the debentures are
redeemed,  repaid or converted  prior  thereto,  the  debentures  will mature on
January 3, 2007 at their principal amount.

      On July 12,  1996,  the  Company  issued a Notice  of  Redemption  for the
outstanding  4.5%/6.25% Step-Up  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures issued on
September 1, 1993 with a scheduled  maturity in 2000.  Prior to the September 5,
1996  redemption  date,  the debenture  holders  elected to convert all of their
outstanding debentures into common stock of the Company at a conversion price of
$13.72 per common share.

      On March 1, 1996,  the Company issued  Deutsche Mark 100 million  Floating
Rate Bonds  (approximately  $68 million at the March 1, 1996 exchange  rate) due
March 1,  1999.  The  bonds are  unsecured,  unsubordinated  obligations  of the
Company and bear interest at a per annum rate equal to Deutsche Mark three month
LIBOR plus 0.375%.

      On January 4, 1995,  an indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company
issued  Deutsche Mark 200 million  Floating Rate Bonds due January 5, 2000.  The
bonds  are  unsecured,   unsubordinated   obligations  of  the  issuer  and  are
unconditionally  and  irrevocably  guaranteed  by the  Company.  The bonds  bear
interest  at a per annum rate equal to  Deutsche  Mark  three  month  LIBOR plus
0.65%.  On August 18,  1997 and  October 1, 1997,  




Deutsche  Mark 69 million and  Deutsche  Mark 20 million,  respectively,  of the
Deutsche Mark 200 million Floating Rate Bonds were repurchased.

      The  Company  maintains  relationships  with a number of banks  worldwide,
which have extended unsecured committed lines of credit in amounts sufficient to
meet the  Company's  cash needs.  At  December  31,  1997,  the Company had $509
million  in such  unsecured  committed  lines  of  credit,  comprised  of a $360
million,  five year revolving credit agreement  expiring June 30, 2001, and $149
million in lines of credit,  principally  outside of the United  States.  Of the
$509 million in unsecured committed lines, $14 million were used at December 31,
1997.

      On February  20, 1998,  the Company  amended and restated the $360 million
revolving  credit  agreement  originally  entered into in 1996.  The amended and
restated $500 million  revolving  credit agreement is with a consortium of banks
and expires on June 30, 2003.  Management believes the aggregate lines of credit
available  to  the  Company  are  adequate  to  support  its   short-term   cash
requirements  for dividends,  capital  expenditures  and  maintenance of working
capital.

      On  January  6,  1998,  the  Company  issued  $230.0  million  of  2  1/4%
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  with a scheduled  maturity  in 2013.  The
debentures  are  convertible  into common  stock of the Company at a  conversion
price of $49.83 per share  subject to adjustment  in certain  events.  Debenture
holders  have the right to  require  the  Company to redeem  the  debentures  on
January 6, 2004 at a price of 118.968%,  or upon the occurrence of a Fundamental
Change,  as defined in the indenture  agreement,  at the  prevailing  redemption
price. The Company may redeem the debentures, as a whole or in part, on or after
December 31, 2001 initially at 112.841% and at increasing  prices  thereafter to
118.968% until January 6, 2004, and 100%  thereafter.  Unless the debentures are
redeemed,  repaid,  or converted  prior thereto,  the debentures  will mature on
January 6, 2013 at their principal amount. The proceeds of this issuance will be
used for general corporate purposes, including working capital.

      On March 4, 1998, the Company issued 4,000,000 shares of common stock for
aggregate proceeds before expenses of $171.4 million. The proceeds of this
issuance will be used for general corporate purposes, including the funding of
the acquisition of The GGT Group plc.

      The Company  anticipates  that the year end cash  position,  together with
future  cash  flows from  operations,  funds  available  under  existing  credit
facilities  (including the 2 1/4% Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures) and the
proceeds  from the  issuance of  4,000,000  shares of common stock in March 1998
will  be  adequate  to  meet  its  long-term  cash   requirements  as  presently
contemplated.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

      The  financial  statements  and  supplementary  data required by this item
appear beginning on page F-1.

Item  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

      None.

                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

      Information  with respect to the  directors of the Company and  compliance
with Section 16 rules is incorporated  by reference to the Company's  definitive
proxy statement expected to be filed by April 6, 1998. Information regarding the
Company's executive officers is set forth in Part I of this Form 10-K.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

      Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 6, 1998.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

      Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 6, 1998.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement
expected to be filed by April 6, 1998.




                                     PART IV


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----

(a)1. Financial Statements:
      Report of Management................................................   F-1
      Report of Independent Public Accountants............................   F-2
      Consolidated Statements of Income for the three years 
         ended December 31, 1997..........................................   F-3
      Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1997 and 1996...........   F-4
      Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the three years
         ended December 31, 1997..........................................   F-5
      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years
         ended December 31, 1997..........................................   F-6
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..........................   F-7
      Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited).........................  F-20

   2. Financial Statement Schedules:

      Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (for the three years
         ended December 31, 1997).........................................   S-1
      All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable.

   3. Exhibits:

      (3)(i)        Articles  of  Incorporation  (as amended on December 4, 1997
                    and as restated for filing  purposes),  filed as Exhibit 4.1
                    to  Omnicom   Group  Inc.'s   Registration   Statement   No.
                    333-46303, are incorporated herein by reference.

          (ii)      By-laws.
       
                    Incorporated  by  reference to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual
                    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987.

      (4)           Instruments   Defining   the  Rights  of  Security  Holders,
                    Including Indentures.

      4.1           Copy of  Subscription  Agreement  dated December 14, 1994 by
                    and  among the  Registrant,  BBDO  Canada  Inc.  and  Morgan
                    Stanley  GmbH and the  other  Managers  listed  therein,  in
                    connection with the issuance of DM 200,000,000 Floating Rate
                    Bonds of 1995  due  January  5,  2000 of BBDO  Canada  Inc.,
                    including form of Guaranty by  Registrant,  filed as Exhibit
                    4.2 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                    the year ended December 31, 1994, is incorporated  herein by
                    reference.

      4.2           Paying Agency  Agreement  dated January 4, 1995 by and among
                    the Registrant,  BBDO Canada Inc. and Morgan Stanley GmbH in
                    connection with the issuance of DM 200,000,000 Floating Rate
                    Bonds of 1995 due January 5, 2000 of BBDO Canada Inc.  filed
                    as Exhibit 4.3 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form
                    10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1994, is  incorporated
                    herein by reference.

      4.3           Copy of  Subscription  Agreement  dated February 27, 1996 by
                    and among the Registrant,  Morgan Stanley Bank AG and Morgan
                    Stanley & Co.  International in connection with the issuance
                    of DM  100,000,000  Floating Rate Bonds of 1996 due March 1,
                    1999 filed as Exhibit  4.4 to Omnicom  Group  Inc.'s  Annual
                    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

      4.4           Paying Agency Agreement dated March 1, 1996 by and among the
                    Registrant,  Morgan Stanley Bank AG and Morgan Stanley & Co.
                    International   in  connection   with  the  issuance  of  DM
                    100,000,000  Floating  Rate  Bonds of 1996 due March 1, 1999
                    filed as Exhibit 4.5 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report
                    on Form  10-K for the  year  ended  December  31,  1995,  is
                    incorporated herein by reference.




      4.5           Indenture  dated January 3, 1997 between the  Registrant and
                    The Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee, in connection with the
                    issuance of 4 1/4% Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures due
                    2007 filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Omnicom  Group  Inc.'s Form S-3
                    Registration Statement No. 333-22589, is incorporated herein
                    by reference.

      4.6           Form of Debentures  (included in Exhibit 4.5 above) filed as
                    Exhibit 4.3 to Omnicom  Group  Inc.'s Form S-3  Registration
                    Statement  No.   333-22589,   is   incorporated   herein  by
                    reference.

      4.7           Registration  Rights Agreement dated January 3, 1997 between
                    the Registrant and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated related
                    to  the   Registrant's  4  1/4%   Convertible   Subordinated
                    Debentures  due 2007 filed as Exhibit  4.4 to Omnicom  Group
                    Inc.'s Form S-3  Registration  Statement No.  333-22589,  is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

      4.8           Indenture dated January 6, 1998,  between the Registrant and
                    The Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee, in connection with the
                    issuance of 2 1/4% Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures due
                    2013 filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s Report on
                    Form 8-K dated January 20, 1998, is  incorporated  herein by
                    reference.

      4.9           Form of Debentures  (included in Exhibit 4.8 above) filed as
                    Exhibit 4.2 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Report on Form 8-K dated
                    January 20, 1998, is incorporated herein by reference.

      4.10          Registration Rights Agreement dated January 6, 1998, between
                    the Registrant and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated related
                    to the Registrant's 2 1/4% Convertible Subordinated
                    Debentures due 2013 filed as Exhibit 4.3 to Omnicom Group
                    Inc.'s Report on Form 8-K dated January 20, 1998 is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

       (10)         Material Contracts.

                    Management  Contracts,   Compensatory  Plans,  Contracts  or
                    Arrangements.

      10.1          Copy of Registrant's 1987 Stock Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.26
                    to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                    year ended  December 31,  1987,  is  incorporated  herein by
                    reference.

      10.2          Amendments to Registrant's 1987 Stock Plan, filed as Exhibit
                    10.2 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                    the year ended December 31, 1994, is incorporated  herein by
                    reference.

      10.3          Copy of  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement Plan dated
                    May 16, 1988, filed as Exhibit 10.24 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s
                    Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
                    1988, is incorporated herein by reference.

      10.4          Amendment to  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement  Plan
                    listed as Exhibit  10.3  above,  adopted  February  4, 1991,
                    filed as Exhibit 10.28 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report
                    on Form  10-K for the  year  ended  December  31,  1990,  is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

      10.5          Amendment to  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement  Plan
                    listed as Exhibit  10.3 above,  adopted on December 7, 1992,
                    filed as Exhibit 10.13 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report
                    on Form  10-K for the  year  ended  December  31,  1992,  is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

      10.6          Amendment to  Registrant's  Profit-Sharing  Retirement  Plan
                    listed as Exhibit 10.3 above, adopted on July 1, 1993, filed
                    as Exhibit  10.10 to Omnicom  Group Inc.'s  Annual Report on
                    Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended   December  31,  1993,  is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

      10.7          Standard  Form of the  Registrant's  1988  Executive  Salary
                    Continuation  Plan  Agreement,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.24 to
                    Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                    ended   December  31,  1989,  is   incorporated   herein  by
                    reference.




      10.8          Standard Form of the Registrant's  Indemnification Agreement
                    with members of  Registrant's  Board of Directors,  filed as
                    Exhibit  10.25 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form
                    10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1989, is  incorporated
                    herein by reference.

      10.9          Copy of DDB Needham Worldwide Joint Savings Plan,  effective
                    as of May 1, 1989,  filed as Exhibit  10.26 to Omnicom Group
                    Inc.'s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                    December 31, 1989, is incorporated herein by reference.

      10.10         Copy of  Severance  Agreement  dated July 6,  1993,  between
                    Keith Reinhard and The DDB Needham Worldwide  Communications
                    Group,  Inc.  (then known as DDB Needham  Worldwide,  Inc.),
                    filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report
                    on Form  10-K for the  year  ended  December  31,  1993,  is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

      10.11         Copy of  Employment  Agreement  dated May 26, 1993,  between
                    William G.  Tragos  and TBWA  International  B.V.,  filed as
                    Exhibit  10.13 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form
                    10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1993, is  incorporated
                    herein by reference.

      10.12         Copy of Deferred  Compensation  Agreement  dated October 12,
                    1984,  between  William G.  Tragos and TBWA  Chiat/Day  Inc.
                    (then  known as TBWA  Advertising  Inc.),  filed as  Exhibit
                    10.14 to Omnicom Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                    the year ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated  herein by
                    reference.

      10.13         Standard   Form   of   Severance    Compensation   Agreement
                    incorporated by reference to BBDO International  Inc.'s Form
                    S-1  Registration  Statement  filed with the  Securities and
                    Exchange  Commission on September 28, 1973, is  incorporated
                    herein by reference.

                    Other Material Contracts.

      10.14         Copy of $360,000,000  Credit Agreement,  dated May 10, 1996,
                    between Omnicom Finance Inc.,  Omnicom Finance Limited,  ABN
                    AMRO Bank N.V.,  Chase  Securities  Inc.  and the  financial
                    institutions  party  thereto,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.15  to
                    Omnicom Group Inc.'s  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    quarter  ended  June 30,  1996,  is  incorporated  herein by
                    reference.

      10.15         Copy of Amendment  No. 1 dated  December  27,  1996,  to the
                    Omnicom  $360,000,000  Credit  Agreement dated May 10, 1996,
                    listed as Exhibit  10.14  above,  filed as Exhibit  10.15 to
                    Omnicom  Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10K for the year
                    ended   December  31,  1996,  is   incorporated   herein  by
                    reference.

      10.16         Copy of $500,000,000  Amended and Restated Credit Agreement,
                    dated as of May 10, 1996 amended and restated as of February
                    20, 1998,  between  Omnicom  Finance Inc.,  Omnicom  Finance
                    Limited,  ABN AMRO Bank N.V.,  Chase Securities Inc. and the
                    financial institutions party thereto.

      (21)          Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

      (23)          Consents of Experts and Counsel.

      23.1          Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

      (24)          Powers  of  Attorney  from  Bernard   Brochand,   Robert  J.
                    Callander,  James A. Cannon,  Leonard S. Coleman, Jr., Susan
                    S.  Denison,  John R.  Murphy,  John R.  Purcell,  Keith  L.
                    Reinhard,  Allen  Rosenshine,  Gary L.  Roubos,  Quentin  I.
                    Smith, Jr., William G. Tragos and Egon P. S. Zehnder.

      (27)          Financial Data Schedule (filed in electronic format only).

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

      No reports on Form 8-K were  filed  during the fourth  quarter of the year
ended December 31, 1997.




                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.
Date: March 24, 1998
                                               By:    /s/ FRED J. MEYER
                                                  -----------------------------
                                                          Fred J. Meyer
                                                     Chief Financial Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

              Signature                          Title                Date
              ---------                          -----                ----

         /s/ BRUCE CRAWFORD              Chairman and Director    March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
            (Bruce Crawford)

         /s/ JOHN D. WREN               Chief Executive Officer   March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------  and President and Director
            (John D. Wren)             

         /S/ FRED J. MEYER               Chief Financial Officer  March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
            (Fred J. Meyer)

     /S/ JONATHAN E. RAMSDEN             Controller (Principal    March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------     Accounting Officer)
        (Jonathan E. Ramsden)            

        /s/ BARRY J. WAGNER                   Secretary and       March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------        General Counsel
           (Barry J. Wagner)                

        /s/ BERNARD BROCHAND*                    Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
           (Bernard Brochand)

       /s/ ROBERT J. CALLANDER*                  Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
          (Robert J. Callander)

        /s/ JAMES A. CANNON*                     Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
           (James A. Cannon)

    /s/ LEONARD S. COLEMAN, JR.*                 Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
       (Leonard S. Coleman, Jr.)

        /s/ SUSAN S. DENISON*                    Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
           (Susan S. Denison)

         /s/ JOHN R. MURPHY*                     Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
            (John R. Murphy)

        /s/ JOHN R. PURCELL*                     Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
           (John R. Purcell)

       /s/ KEITH L. REINHARD*                    Director         March 24, 1998
- --- ---------------------------------- 
          (Keith L. Reinhard)
   
        /s/ ALLEN ROSENSHINE*                    Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
           (Allen Rosenshine)

        /s/ GARY L. ROUBOS*                      Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
           (Gary L. Roubos)

      /s/ QUENTIN I. SMITH, JR.*                 Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
         (Quentin I. Smith, Jr.)

       /s/ WILLIAM G. TRAGOS*                    Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
          (William G. Tragos)

       /s/ EGON P.S. ZEHNDER*                    Director         March 24, 1998
- -------------------------------------
          (Egon P.S. Zehnder)

*By         BARRY J. WAGNER
- -------------------------------------
            Barry J. Wagner
           Attorney-in-fact




                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

      The management of Omnicom Group Inc. is  responsible  for the integrity of
the financial data reported by the Company and its subsidiaries. Management uses
its best judgment to ensure that the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position and results of operations
of Omnicom Group Inc. and  subsidiaries.  These  financial  statements have been
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

      The system of internal controls of the Company,  augmented by a program of
internal  audits,  is designed to provide  reasonable  assurance that assets are
safeguarded  and records are  maintained  to  substantiate  the  preparation  of
accurate financial information.  Underlying this concept of reasonable assurance
is the premise that the cost of control  should not exceed the benefits  derived
therefrom.

      The  financial   statements  have  been  audited  by  independent   public
accountants.  Their report expresses an independent  informed judgment as to the
fairness of management's reported operating results and financial position. This
judgment is based on the procedures  described in the second  paragraph of their
report.

      The Audit Committee meets  periodically with  representatives of financial
management, internal audit and the independent public accountants to assure that
each is properly discharging their responsibilities. In order to ensure complete
independence,  the Audit Committee communicates directly and separately with the
independent  public  accountants,  internal  audit and  financial  management to
discuss  the  results of their  audits,  the  adequacy  of  internal  accounting
controls and the quality of financial reporting.


             JOHN D. WREN                                FRED J. MEYER          
- ---------------------------------------        ---------------------------------
             John D. Wren                                 Fred J. Meyer
 Chief Executive Officer and President              Chief Financial Officer


                                      F-1


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and
  Shareholders of Omnicom Group Inc.:

      We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Omnicom
Group Inc. (a New York corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and
1996, and the related consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders' equity,
and cash flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,
1997. These consolidated financial statements and the schedule referred to below
are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our  responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and schedule based
on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all  material  respects,  the  financial  position of Omnicom  Group Inc. and
subsidiaries  as of  December  31,  1997  and  1996,  and the  results  of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1997 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

      Our  audits  were made for the  purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule on page S-1 is presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is
not part of the basic financial statements.  This schedule has been subjected to
the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial  statements
and, in our opinion,  fairly states in all material  respects the financial data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic  financial  statements
taken as a whole.

                                                        ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


New York, New York 
February 18, 1998 (except for Note 14 
as to which the date is March 24, 1998)


                                       F-2


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                                              Years Ended December 31,
                                              (Dollars in Thousands
                                             Except Per Share Data)
                                  -----------------------------------------
                                     1997            1996            1995
                                     ----            ----            ----
COMMISSIONS AND FEES ..........   $ 3,124,813    $ 2,641,667    $ 2,257,536

OPERATING EXPENSES:
   Salaries and Related 
      Costs ...................     1,835,118      1,555,553      1,305,087
   Office and General 
      Expenses................        886,149        759,541        681,544
                                  -----------    -----------    -----------
                                    2,721,267      2,315,094      1,986,631
                                  -----------    -----------    -----------

OPERATING PROFIT ..............       403,546        326,573        270,905

NET INTEREST EXPENSE:
   Interest and Dividend 
      Income...................       (20,811)       (12,725)       (15,019)
   Interest Paid or Accrued ...        43,112         34,067         43,271
                                  -----------    -----------    -----------
                                       22,301         21,342         28,252
                                  -----------    -----------    -----------

INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES ....       381,245        305,231        242,653

INCOME TAXES ..................       156,484        123,639         97,386
                                  -----------    -----------    -----------

INCOME AFTER INCOME TAXES .....       224,761        181,592        145,267
EQUITY IN AFFILIATES ..........        30,089         20,510         20,828
MINORITY INTERESTS ............       (32,435)       (25,773)       (26,140)
                                  -----------    -----------    -----------
NET INCOME ....................   $   222,415    $   176,329    $   139,955
                                  ===========    ===========    ===========
NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE:
   Basic ......................   $      1.40    $      1.17    $      0.95
   Diluted ....................   $      1.37    $      1.12    $      0.93

           The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
                    are an integral part of these statements.


                                      F-3


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                   A S S E T S
                                                            December 31,
                                                       (Dollars in Thousands)
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                         1997           1996
                                                         ----           ----
CURRENT ASSETS:
    Cash and cash equivalents .....................  $   556,436    $   510,267
    Investments available-for-sale, at market,
         which approximates cost ..................       87,668         12,841
    Accounts receivable, less allowance for
        doubtful accounts of $32,190 and $25,642
        (Schedule II) .............................    1,908,532      1,555,411
    Billable production orders in process, 
        at cost ..................................       183,145        156,667
    Prepaid expenses and other current assets .....      252,617        189,799
                                                     -----------    -----------
    Total Current Assets ..........................    2,988,398      2,424,985
FURNITURE, EQUIPMENT AND LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS,
   at cost, less accumulated depreciation and
   amortization of $336,926 and $301,102 ..........      239,667        221,655
INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES .........................      281,264        223,918
INTANGIBLES, less accumulated amortization of
   $235,257 and $198,880 ..........................    1,234,539      1,000,312
DEFERRED TAX BENEFITS .............................       68,086         79,828
DEFERRED CHARGES AND OTHER ASSETS .................      153,789        105,245
                                                     -----------    -----------
                                                     $ 4,965,743    $ 4,055,943
                                                     ===========    ===========

      L I A B I L I T I E S   A N D  S H A R E H O L D E R S'  E Q U I T Y
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
    Accounts payable ..............................  $ 2,595,255    $ 2,070,026
    Current portion of long-term debt .............        3,358          4,160
    Bank loans ....................................       14,314          4,612
    Advance billings ..............................      185,591        151,539
    Accrued taxes on income .......................       80,489         66,409
    Other accrued taxes ...........................       93,390         72,424
    Other accrued liabilities .....................      586,342        477,753
    Dividends payable .............................       20,246         16,153
                                                     -----------    -----------
    Total Current Liabilities .....................    3,578,985      2,863,076
                                                     -----------    -----------
LONG-TERM DEBT ....................................      341,665        204,744
DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND OTHER LIABILITIES .......      114,668        124,739
MINORITY INTERESTS ................................       63,686         62,706
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (Note 10)
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY:
    Preferred stock, $1.00 par value, 7,500,000
        shares authorized, none issued ............         --             --
    Common stock, $.50 par value, 300,000,000
        shares authorized, 173,836,221 and
        172,577,014 shares issued in 1997
        and 1996, respectively ....................       86,918         86,289
    Additional paid-in capital ....................      533,412        511,366
    Retained earnings .............................      555,038        419,072
    Unamortized restricted stock ..................      (46,745)       (39,445)
    Cumulative translation adjustment .............      (47,947)         3,490
    Treasury stock, at cost, 11,721,122
        and 11,719,872 shares in 1997 and
        1996, respectively ........................     (213,937)      (180,094)
                                                     -----------    -----------
        Total Shareholders' Equity ................      866,739        800,678
                                                     -----------    -----------
                                                     $ 4,965,743    $ 4,055,943
                                                     ===========    ===========

           The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
                  are an integral part of these balance sheets.


                                      F-4


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

                       Three Years Ended December 31, 1997
                             (Dollars in Thousands)


           The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
                  are an integral part of these balance sheets.


                                      F-5


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



           The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
                  are an integral part of these balance sheets.


                                      F-6


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

      Business.  Omnicom  Group,  Inc.,  through its wholly and  partially-owned
companies,  operates advertising agencies which plan, create,  produce and place
advertising in various media such as television, radio, newspaper and magazines.
Additional  services such as marketing  consultation,  consumer market research,
design  and  production  of  merchandising  and  sales  promotion  programs  and
materials, direct mail advertising, corporate identification,  public relations,
and interactive marketing are offered to clients.  These services are offered to
clients worldwide on a local, national, pan-regional or global basis. Operations
cover the major  regions  of North  America,  the  United  Kingdom,  Continental
Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, the Far East and Australia.
 
      Recognition of Commission and Fee Revenue.  Substantially all revenues are
derived from  commissions for placement of  advertisements  in various media and
from  fees  for  manpower  and for  production  of  advertisements.  Revenue  is
generally   recognized  when  billed.   Billings  are  generally  rendered  upon
presentation  date for media, when manpower is used, when costs are incurred for
radio and television production and when print production is completed.

      Principles  of  Consolidation.  The  accompanying  consolidated  financial
statements  include the  accounts of Omnicom  Group Inc.  and its  domestic  and
international   subsidiaries  (the  "Company").   All  significant  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated.

      Restatements and Reclassifications. All amounts presented give effect to a
two-for-one  stock  split  in the form of a 100%  stock  dividend  completed  in
December 1997 and to a prior two-for-one stock split completed in December 1995.
During 1995, the Company completed certain acquisitions which were accounted for
under the  pooling-of-interests  method of  accounting,  as discussed in Note 2.
Accordingly,  the  Company's  consolidated  financial  statements  and  notes to
consolidated  financial  statements  include  the  operating  results  of  these
companies  for all periods  presented.  In addition,  certain prior year amounts
have been reclassified to conform with the 1997 presentation.

      Investments  Available-For-Sale.  Investments  available-for-sale  consist
principally of time deposits with financial institutions.  These investments are
generally  redeemed at face value upon maturity and, as such, gains or losses on
disposition are immaterial.  There are no material  unrealized  holding gains or
losses as of December 31, 1997.

      Billable  Production.   Billable  production  orders  in  process  consist
principally  of  costs  incurred  in  producing   advertisements  and  marketing
communications  for clients.  Such amounts are generally  billed to clients when
costs are incurred for radio and television production and when print production
is completed.

      Common Stock. During 1997, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company issued
securities  which are  exchangeable  into  common  stock of the  Company  at the
holders'  option.  Common  stock issued at December  31, 1997  includes  170,233
shares of common stock issuable on the exchange of these securities.

      Treasury Stock. The Company accounts for treasury share purchases at cost.
The reissuance of treasury shares is accounted for at the average cost. Gains or
losses on the  reissuance  of treasury  shares are  generally  accounted  for as
additional paid-in capital.

      Foreign  Currency  Translation.  The Company's  financial  statements were
prepared  in  accordance  with  the   requirements  of  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation." Under this
method, net transaction gains of $2.1 million, $1.5 million and $0.4 million are
included in 1997, 1996 and 1995 net income, respectively.

      Earnings Per Common Share.  The Company has adopted the provisions of SFAS
No. 128,  "Earnings per Share",  under which it is required to present basic and
diluted earnings per share  information.  Basic earnings per share is based upon
the  weighted  average  number of common  shares  outstanding  during each year.
Diluted  earnings  per share is based on the  above,  common  share  equivalents
outstanding,  and if  dilutive,  adjusted  for  the  assumed  conversion  of the
Company's  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures and the assumed increase in net
income for the after tax interest cost of these  debentures.  For the year ended
December 31, 1997, the 41/4% Step-Up  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures were
assumed to be


                                      F-7


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

converted  for the  full  year.  For the  year  ended  December  31,  1996,  the
4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  were  assumed  to be
converted through September 5, 1996, when they were converted into common stock.
For the year  ended  December  31,  1995,  the  4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up  Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures  were  assumed to be converted  for the full year.  The
number of shares used in the computations were as follows:

                                            1997          1996          1995
                                            ----          ----          ----
Basic EPS computation................   159,418,700   151,329,300   146,570,900
Diluted EPS computation..............   169,483,500   161,383,400   159,228,000
                                       
      Severance  Agreements.   Arrangements  with  certain  present  and  former
employees  provide  for  continuing  payments  for  periods up to 10 years after
cessation of their full-time  employment in consideration  for agreements by the
employees  not to  compete  and  to  render  consulting  services  in  the  post
employment  period.  Such  payments,  which are  determined,  subject to certain
conditions and limitations,  by earnings in subsequent periods,  are expensed in
such periods.

      Depreciation  of Furniture  and Equipment  and  Amortization  of Leasehold
Improvements.  Depreciation  charges are  computed on a  straight-line  basis or
declining  balance  method over the  estimated  useful  lives of  furniture  and
equipment,   up  to  10  years.   Leasehold  improvements  are  amortized  on  a
straight-line  basis  over the lesser of the terms of the  related  lease or the
useful life of these assets.

      Intangibles. Intangibles represent acquisition costs in excess of the fair
value of tangible net assets of purchased  subsidiaries.  The intangible  values
associated with the Company's  business consist  predominantly of two types: the
value  of the  worldwide  agency  networks  and  the  value  of  ongoing  client
relationships.  The Company's  worldwide agency networks have been operating for
an average of over sixty years and intangibles associated with enhancing network
value are  intended  to  enhance  the long term  value of the  networks.  Client
relationships in the advertising  industry are typically long term in nature and
the  Company's  largest  clients  have on  average  been  clients  for more than
twenty-five years. As such,  intangibles are amortized on a straight-line  basis
principally over a period of forty years. Each year, the intangibles are written
down if, and to the extent, they are determined to be impaired.  Intangibles are
considered  to be impaired  if the future  anticipated  undiscounted  cash flows
arising from the use of the intangibles is less than the net unamortized cost of
the intangibles.

      Deferred  Taxes.  Deferred tax  liabilities and tax benefits relate to the
recognition  of certain  revenues and expenses in different  years for financial
statement and tax purposes and to differences  between the tax and book basis of
assets and liabilities recorded in connection with acquisitions.

      Cash Flows.  The Company's  cash  equivalents  are primarily  comprised of
investments in overnight interest-bearing  deposits,  commercial paper and money
market instruments with original maturity dates of three months or less.

      The following  supplemental schedule summarizes the fair value of non-cash
assets acquired,  cash paid, common shares issued and the liabilities assumed in
connection  with  the  acquisition  of  equity  interests  in  subsidiaries  and
affiliates, for each of the three years ended December 31:

                                                   (Dollars in thousands)
                                               1997        1996         1995
                                               ----        ----         ----
Fair value of non-cash assets acquired.....  $462,928    $277,005     $129,425
Cash paid, net of cash acquired............  (334,941)   (178,861)    (118,784)
Common shares issued.......................    (6,615)    (27,190)      (3,668)
                                             --------    --------     --------
Liabilities assumed........................  $121,372    $ 70,954     $  6,973
                                             ========    ========     ========

      During 1996,  the Company  issued  10,477,356  shares of common stock upon
conversion of $143,750,000 of its 4.5%/6.25%  Step-Up  Convertible  Subordinated
Debentures.

      Concentration  of  Credit  Risk  The  Company  provides   advertising  and
marketing  services  to a wide range of  clients  who  operate in many  industry
sectors around the world.  The Company  grants credit to all qualified  clients,
but does not believe it is exposed to any undue  concentration of credit risk to
any significant degree.


                                      F-8


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      Derivative Financial Instruments. Derivative financial instruments consist
principally of forward  foreign  exchange  contracts and interest rate swaps. In
order for derivative  financial  instruments to qualify for hedge accounting the
following criteria must be met: (a) the hedging instrument must be designated as
a hedge;  (b) the hedged exposure must be specifically  identifiable  and expose
the Company to risk;  and (c) it must be highly  probable  that a change in fair
value of the derivative  financial instrument and an opposite change in the fair
value of the  hedged  exposure  will  have a high  degree  of  correlation.  The
majority  of the  Company's  derivative  activity  relates  to  forward  foreign
exchange contracts. The Company executes these contracts in the same currency as
the hedged exposure,  whereby 100% correlation is achieved.  Gains and losses on
derivative  financial  instruments  which  are  hedges  of  existing  assets  or
liabilities  are included in the carrying  amount of those assets or liabilities
and are  ultimately  recognized  in  income as part of those  carrying  amounts.
Interest  received  and/or paid arising from swap  agreements  which  qualify as
hedges are  recognized  in income when the  interest is  receivable  or payable.
Derivative financial  instruments which do not qualify as hedges are revalued to
the current  market  rate and any gains or losses are  recorded in income in the
current period.

      Use of Estimates.  The  preparation of financial  statements in conformity
with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and
liabilities and disclosures of contingent  assets and liabilities at the date of
the  financial  statements  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2. Acquisitions

      In February 1997, the Company  completed the acquisitions of Cline Davis &
Mann, Inc. and Gavin Anderson & Company (Japan), Inc. Both of these acquisitions
were  accounted for under the  pooling-of-interests  method of  accounting  and,
accordingly,  the results of  operations  of Cline Davis & Mann,  Inc. and Gavin
Anderson  &  Company  (Japan),  Inc.  have  been  included  in the  consolidated
financial  statements since January 1, 1997. Prior year  consolidated  financial
statements  were not  restated as the impact on such years was not  material.  A
total of 1,088,974  shares of common stock were issued in connection  with these
acquisitions.

      In  May  1996,   the  Company   completed  the   acquisition   of  Ketchum
Communications  Holdings,  Inc.  ("Ketchum").  The acquisition was accounted for
under the pooling-of-interests method of accounting and accordingly, the results
of  operations  of Ketchum  have been  included  in the  consolidated  financial
statements since January 1, 1996. Prior year consolidated  financial  statements
were not  restated  as the  impact on such  years was not  material.  A total of
2,413,706 shares were issued in connection with this acquisition.

      In  August  1995,  the  Company  completed  the  acquisitions  of Ross Roy
Communications  and Chiat/Day  Holdings.  Both  transactions  were accounted for
under  the  pooling-of-interests  method  of  accounting.  Due to the  aggregate
materiality  of these  acquisitions,  the Company's  financial  statements  were
restated  to  include  the  operating  results  of Ross Roy  Communications  and
Chiat/Day Holdings for all periods  presented.  A total of 5,113,292 shares were
issued in connection with these acquisitions.

      During  1997,  the Company  made  several  other  acquisitions  within the
advertising  industry  whose  aggregate  cost,  in  cash or by  issuance  of the
Company's  common stock,  totaled $381.9 million for net assets,  which included
intangible  assets  of $351.9  million.  Due to the  nature  of the  advertising
industry,  companies acquired generally have tangible net liabilities or minimal
tangible  net assets.  The  majority of the  purchase  price is paid for ongoing
client  relationships and to enhance the Company's worldwide agency networks and
marketing service  companies.  Included in both figures are contingent  payments
related to prior year  acquisitions  totaling $66.0 million.  Pro forma combined
results of  operations of the Company as if these  acquisitions  had occurred on
January  1, 1996 do not  materially  differ  from the  reported  amounts  in the
consolidated  statements of income for each of the two years in the period ended
December 31, 1997.

      Certain acquisitions entered into in 1997 and prior years require payments
in future years if certain results are achieved.  Formulas for these  contingent
future  payments  differ from  acquisition  to  acquisition.  Contingent  future
payments are not expected to be material to the Company's  results of operations
or financial position.


                                      F-9


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

3. Bank Loans and Lines of Credit

      Bank loans are primarily  comprised of bank  overdrafts  of  international
subsidiaries  which  are  treated  as loans  pursuant  to bank  agreements.  The
weighted average interest rate on the borrowings  outstanding as of December 31,
1997 and 1996 was 9.9% and 6.6%,  respectively.  At December  31, 1997 and 1996,
the Company had unsecured committed lines of credit aggregating $509 million and
$475 million,  respectively. The unused portion of credit lines was $495 million
and $470  million at  December  31,  1997 and 1996,  respectively.  The lines of
credit are generally  extended at the banks'  lending rates to their most credit
worthy  borrowers.  Compensating  balances are not required  within the terms of
these credit agreements.

      At December 31, 1997 and 1996, the committed lines of credit included $360
million under a revolving  credit  agreement  expiring June 30, 2001. Due to the
long term nature of this credit agreement,  borrowings under the agreement would
be classified as long-term debt.  There were no borrowings  under this revolving
credit agreement at December 31, 1997 and 1996.

      The revolving credit agreement  includes a facility for issuing commercial
paper  backed by a bank letter of credit.  During the years ended  December  31,
1997,  1996 and 1995,  the  Company  issued  commercial  paper  with an  average
original  maturity  of 16,  26 and 31 days,  respectively.  The  Company  had no
commercial paper borrowings  outstanding as of December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.
The maximum outstanding during the year was $235 million,  $230 million and $210
million, in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The gross amount of issuance and
redemption during the year was $2,017 million, $1,710 million and $1,211 million
in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

4. Employee Stock Plans

      Under the terms of the  Company's  1987 Stock Plan,  as amended (the "1987
Plan"),  26,200,000 shares of common stock of the Company have been reserved for
restricted stock awards and non-qualified  stock options to key employees of the
Company.  The remaining number of such reserved shares was 2,912,000 at December
31, 1997.

      Stock Options.  As permitted by SFAS No. 123,  "Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation,"   the  Company  intends  to  continue  to  apply  the  accounting
provisions of APB Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to  Employees,"
and to make  annual pro forma  disclosures  of the effect of  adopting  the fair
value method of accounting for employee  stock options and similar  instruments.
During the initial  periods of disclosure,  the effects on net income may not be
representative of the effects in future years due to the transitional provisions
included in SFAS No. 123.

      Under the terms of the 1987 Plan,  the  option  price may not be less than
100% of the market value of the stock at the date of the grant.  Options  become
exercisable  30% on each of the first two  anniversary  dates of the grant  date
with the final 40% becoming exercisable three years from the grant date.

      A summary of the status of the  Company's  stock option plan for the three
years ended December 31, 1997 is as follows:




                                      F-10


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      The weighted  average fair value of options  granted during 1997, 1996 and
1995 was $6.27, $4.65 and $3.40 per option, respectively. The fair value of each
option  grant has been  estimated  on the date of grant using the  Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following assumptions:

                                       1997             1996            1995
                                       ----             ----            ----
Expected option lives............     5 years        5 years          5 years
Risk free interest rate..........      6.15%      5.64% - 5.99%    5.95% - 7.14%
Expected volatility..............      19.7%      18.8% - 19.5%    20.9% - 25.7%
Dividend yield...................      1.5%           1.7%             2.2%
                                    
      Using  compensation  cost for the Company's stock option plan,  determined
based on the estimated fair value at the grant date for options granted in 1997,
1996 and 1995  consistent with the provisions of SFAS No. 123, the effect on the
Company's net income and income per share would have been as follows:

                                                  Dollars in Thousands 
                                                  Except Per Share Data
                                           -------------------------------------
                                              1997           1996         1995
                                              ----           ----         ----
Net income, as reported...................  $222,415       $176,329    $ 139,955
Net income, pro forma.....................   217,260        172,849      138,570

Basic income per share, as reported.......      1.40           1.17         0.95
Basic income per share, pro forma.........      1.36           1.14         0.95

Diluted income per share, as reported.....      1.37           1.12         0.93
Diluted income per share, pro forma.......      1.34           1.10         0.92

      The following table summarizes  information about options  outstanding and
options exercisable at December 31, 1997:



      Restricted   Shares.  A  summary  of  changes  in  outstanding  shares  of
restricted stock for the three years ended December 31, 1997 is as follows:

                                             Years Ended December 31,
                                     -------------------------------------------
                                       1997            1996             1995
                                       ----            ----             ----
Beginning balance.................   3,315,516       3,294,000        3,128,328
  Amount granted..................   1,105,838       1,136,616        1,224,336
  Amount vested...................  (1,123,882)     (1,030,224)        (980,844)
  Amount forfeited................    (160,122)        (84,876)         (77,820)
                                     ---------       ---------        ---------
Ending balance....................   3,137,350       3,315,516        3,294,000
                                     =========       =========        =========


                                      F-11


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      All restricted shares granted under the 1987 Plan were sold at a price per
share  equal to their par value.  The  difference  between  par value and market
value  on the date of the  sale is  charged  to  shareholders'  equity  and then
amortized to expense over the period of  restriction.  Under the 1987 Plan,  the
restricted  shares become  transferable to the employee in 20% annual increments
provided the employee remains in the employ of the Company.

      Restricted  shares  may not be sold,  transferred,  pledged  or  otherwise
encumbered until the restrictions lapse. Under most circumstances,  the employee
must  resell  the  shares to the  Company  at par value if the  employee  ceases
employment prior to the end of the period of restriction.

      The charge to operations in connection with these  restricted stock awards
for the years ended December 31, 1997,  1996 and 1995 amounted to $17.3 million,
$13.9 million and $10.7 million, respectively.

5. Segment Reporting

      The  Company  operates   advertising   agencies  and  offers  its  clients
additional marketing services and specialty advertising through its wholly-owned
and  partially-owned  businesses.  A  summary  of the  Company's  operations  by
geographic  area as of December 31, 1997,  1996 and 1995, and for the years then
ended is presented below:

                                                 (Dollars in Thousands)
                                       -----------------------------------------
                                        United                     
                                        States     International   Consolidated
                                      ----------   -------------   -------------

    Commissions and Fees...........   $1,616,768     $1,508,045       $3,124,813
    Operating Profit ..............      218,647        184,899          403,546
    Net Income ....................      124,732         97,683          222,415
    Identifiable Assets............    2,091,832      2,873,911        4,965,743
    Commissions and Fees...........   $1,384,424     $1,257,243       $2,641,667
    Operating Profit ..............      178,949        147,624          326,573
    Net Income ....................       95,195         81,134          176,329
    Identifiable Assets............    1,661,877      2,394,066        4,055,943
    Commissions and Fees...........   $1,117,226     $1,140,310       $2,257,536
    Operating Profit ..............      139,927        130,978          270,905
    Net Income ....................       69,906         70,049          139,955
    Identifiable Assets............    1,316,521      2,211,156        3,527,677

6. Investments in Affiliates

      The Company has in excess of 65  unconsolidated  affiliates  accounted for
under the equity  method.  The  equity  method is used when the  Company  has an
ownership  of less  than  50%  and  exercises  significant  influence  over  the
operating  and  financial  policies  of  the  affiliate.   The  following  table
summarizes   the  balance   sheets  and  income   statements  of  the  Company's
unconsolidated affiliates, primarily in Europe and Australia, as of December 31,
1997, 1996, 1995, and for the years then ended:

                                                 (Dollars in Thousands)
                                     -------------------------------------------
                                         1997            1996           1995
                                          ---             ---            ---
Current assets......................    $589,664       $528,814      $1,399,700
Non-current assets..................      95,728         91,559         147,093
Current liabilities.................     500,633        422,886       1,400,349
Non-current liabilities.............      35,269         28,796         149,781
Minority interests..................       3,644          2,134           8,015
Gross revenues......................     538,647        525,404         702,639
Costs and expenses..................     446,528        431,031         582,850
Net income..........................      56,226         57,352          79,262


                                      F-12


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      The decrease in the summarized balance sheets and income statements of the
Company's  unconsolidated  affiliates  in 1996 as compared to 1995 is due to the
sale of the Company's  minority interest in Aegis Group plc, partially offset by
the growth of the Company's existing equity affiliates.  The Company's equity in
the net income of these affiliates amounted to $30.1 million,  $20.5 million and
$20.8 million for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. The Company's equity in the
net tangible  assets of these  affiliated  companies  was  approximately  $105.5
million,  $97.5  million,  $76.7  million at December 31,  1997,  1996 and 1995,
respectively.  Included in the Company's investments in affiliates is the excess
of acquisition costs over the fair value of tangible net assets acquired.  These
excess   acquisition  costs  are  being  amortized  on  a  straight-line   basis
principally over a period of forty years.

7. Long-Term Debt

      Long-term  debt  outstanding as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 consisted of
the following:

                                                         (Dollars in Thousands)
                                                          1997          1996
                                                         ------        ------
Deutsche Mark Floating Rate Bonds, with
   a scheduled maturity in 2000, interest 
   at DM three month LIBOR plus 0.65%...............   $ 61,738      $ 129,880
Deutsche Mark Floating Rate Bonds, with a 
   scheduled maturity in 1999, interest at 
   DM three month LIBOR plus 0.375%.................     55,620         64,940
41/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures 
   with a scheduled maturity in 2007................    218,500          --
Sundry notes and loans payable to banks and 
   others at rates from 5.15% to 20.25%, 
   maturing at various dates through 2003...........      9,165         14,084
                                                        -------       --------
                                                        345,023       208,904
Less current portion................................      3,358          4,160
                                                       --------       --------
  Total long-term debt..............................   $341,665       $204,744
                                                       ========       ========

      On January 3, 1997, the Company issued $218.5 million of 41/4% Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures  with a scheduled  maturity in 2007. The debentures are
convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion price of $31.50 per
share subject to adjustment in certain events.  Debenture holders have the right
to require the Company to redeem the debentures on January 3, 2003 at a price of
112.418%,  or upon the  occurrence  of a Fundamental  Change,  as defined in the
indenture agreement,  at the prevailing redemption price. The Company may redeem
the  debentures,  as a whole or in part, on or after December 29, 2000 initially
at 108.324% and at increasing  prices  thereafter  to 112.418%  until January 2,
2003,  and 100%  thereafter.  Unless  the  debentures  are  redeemed,  repaid or
converted prior thereto,  the debentures will mature on January 3, 2007 at their
principal amount.

      On July 12, 1996, the Company issued a Notice of Redemption for its 4.5% /
6.25% Step-Up  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures issued on September 1, 1993
with a scheduled  maturity in 2000.  Prior to the  September 5, 1996  redemption
date,  debenture holders elected to convert all of their outstanding  debentures
into  common  stock of the  Company at a  conversion  price of $13.72 per common
share.

      On March 1, 1996,  the Company issued  Deutsche Mark 100 million  Floating
Rate Bonds. The bonds are unsecured,  unsubordinated  obligations of the Company
and bear  interest at a per annum rate equal to Deutsche  Mark three month LIBOR
plus 0.375%. Unless redeemed earlier, the bonds will mature on March 1, 1999 and
will be repaid at par.

      On January 4, 1995,  an indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company
issued Deutsche Mark 200 million  Floating Rate Bonds.  The bonds are unsecured,
unsubordinated obligations of the issuer and are unconditionally and irrevocably
guaranteed  by the Company.  The bonds bear interest at a rate equal to Deutsche
Mark three  month  LIBOR plus  0.65% and,  subsequent  to January 5, 1997 may be
redeemed  at the  option of the  issuer on any  interest  payment  date at their
principal  amount plus any accrued but unpaid  interest.  On August 18, 1997 and
October  1,  1997,  Deutsche  Mark 69  million  and  Deutsche  Mark 20  million,
respectively,  of the  Deutsche  Mark  200  million  Floating  Rate  Bonds  were
repurchased. Unless redeemed earlier, the remaining bonds will mature on January
5, 2000 and will be repaid at par.


                                      F-13


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      On May 10, 1996, the $250 million  revolving credit agreement was replaced
by a $360 million revolving credit agreement. This $360 million revolving credit
agreement  is with a consortium  of banks  expiring  June 30, 2001.  This credit
agreement  includes a facility  for issuing  commercial  paper  backed by a bank
letter of credit. The agreement contains certain financial  covenants  regarding
the   ratio   of  total   consolidated   indebtedness   to  total   consolidated
capitalization,  the ratio of debt to cash flow, and a limitation on investments
in and loans to affiliates and unconsolidated subsidiaries. At December 31, 1997
the Company was in compliance with these covenants.

      Aggregate  maturities  of  long-term  debt in the next  five  years are as
follows:

                                                         (Dollars in Thousands)
           1998.........................................       $  3,358
           1999.........................................         58,505
           2000.........................................         63,226
           2001.........................................            691
           2002.........................................            351
           Thereafter...................................        218,892
                                                              
8. Income Taxes

      Income before income taxes and the provision for taxes on income consisted
of the amounts shown below:

                                                  Years Ended December 31,
                                                  (Dollars in Thousands)
                                          --------------------------------------
                                            1997          1996            1995
                                            ----          ----            ----
Income before income taxes:               
   Domestic...........................     $182,608      $162,388      $107,536
   International......................      198,637       142,843       135,117
                                           --------      --------      --------
         Total........................     $381,245      $305,231      $242,653
                                           ========      ========      ========
 Provision for taxes on income:           
   Current:                               
         Federal......................     $ 47,145       $49,394     $  29,143
         State and local..............       17,221        13,612         9,837
         International................       78,438        58,339        57,463
                                           --------      --------      --------
                                            142,804       121,345        96,443
                                           --------      --------      --------
   Deferred:                              
         Federal......................        7,712         2,072         2,089
         State and local..............          541          (120)       (1,481)
         International................        5,427           342           335
                                           --------      --------      --------
                                             13,680         2,294           943
                                           --------      --------      --------
         Total........................     $156,484      $123,639      $ 97,386
                                           ========      ========      ========
 
      The Company's  effective income tax rate varied from the statutory federal
income tax rate as a result of the following factors:

                                                     1997        1996      1995
                                                     ----        ----      ----
Statutory federal income tax rate.................   35.0%       35.0%     35.0%
State and local taxes on income, net of
   federal income tax benefit.....................    3.0         2.9       2.2
International subsidiaries' tax rates in excess
   of (less than) federal statutory rate..........    1.2        (0.1)      0.1
Non-deductible amortization of goodwill...........    3.0         3.4       3.4
Other.............................................   (1.2)       (0.7)     (0.6)
                                                     ----        ----      ----
Effective rate....................................   41.0%       40.5%     40.1%
                                                     ====        ====      ====


                                      F-14


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      Deferred  income taxes are provided for the temporary  difference  between
the  financial  reporting  basis  and tax  basis  of the  Company's  assets  and
liabilities.  Deferred tax benefits result  principally  from recording  certain
expenses in the financial  statements which are not currently deductible for tax
purposes  and from  differences  between  the tax and book  basis of assets  and
liabilities  recorded in connection with acquisitions.  Deferred tax liabilities
result  principally  from  expenses  which  are  currently  deductible  for  tax
purposes, but have not yet been expensed in the financial statements.

      The Company has recorded deferred tax benefits as of December 31, 1997 and
1996 of $142.1 million and $139.0 million, respectively,  related principally to
tax  deductible  intangibles,  restricted  stock  amortization,   severance  and
compensation, leases and accrued expenses.

      The Company has recorded deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 1997
and 1996 of $49.7 million and $38.5 million, respectively, related principally
to furniture and equipment depreciation and tax lease recognition.

      Deferred  tax  benefits  (liabilities)  as of  December  31, 1997 and 1996
consisted of the amounts shown below (dollars in millions):

                                                           1997          1996
                                                           ----          ----
Deductible intangibles..................................   $41.4       $ 46.5
Acquisition liabilities.................................    18.9         15.9
Lease reserves..........................................     7.3          8.4
Severance and compensation reserves.....................    29.4         26.9
Tax loss carryforwards..................................     3.0          3.8
Amortization and depreciation...........................    (1.7)        (2.9)
Other, net..............................................    (5.9)         1.9
                                                           -----       ------
                                                           $92.4       $100.5
                                                           =====       ======

      Net current  deferred  tax  benefits as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 were
$24.3  million and $20.7  million,  respectively,  and were  included in prepaid
expenses and other current assets.  Net non-current  deferred tax benefits as of
December 31, 1997 and 1996 were $68.1 million and $79.8  million,  respectively.
The Company has  concluded  that it is probable  that it will be able to realize
these net deferred tax benefits in future periods.

      A provision has been made for additional  income and withholding  taxes on
the  earnings  of  international   subsidiaries  and  affiliates  that  will  be
distributed.

9. Employee Retirement Plans

      The Company's  international and domestic  subsidiaries provide retirement
benefits for their  employees  primarily  through  defined  contribution  plans.
Company  contributions  to the  plans,  which are  determined  by the  boards of
directors  of the  subsidiaries,  have been in  amounts  up to 15% (the  maximum
amount   deductible   for  federal   income  tax  purposes)  of  total  eligible
compensation of participating  employees.  Expenses  associated with these plans
amounted to $54.3  million,  $49.8 million and $41.7  million in 1997,  1996 and
1995, respectively.

      The Company's pension plans are primarily  international.  These plans are
not  required  to report  to  governmental  agencies  pursuant  to the  Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Substantially all of these plans
are funded by fixed  premium  payments to insurance  companies  which  undertake
legal  obligations  to provide  specific  benefits to the  individuals  covered.
Pension expense amounted to $5.3 million, $4.6 million and $4.4 million in 1997,
1996 and 1995, respectively.

      Certain  subsidiaries  of the Company have executive  retirement  programs
under which benefits will be paid to participants or their beneficiaries over 15
years  beginning  at age 65 or  death.  In  addition,  other  subsidiaries  have
individual  deferred  compensation  arrangements  with certain  executives which
provide for payments over varying terms upon retirement, cessation of employment
or death.


                                      F-15


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      Some of the Company's  domestic  subsidiaries  provide life  insurance and
medical  benefits  for  retired  employees.  Eligibility  requirements  vary  by
subsidiary,  but generally include  attainment of a specified  combined age plus
years of service factor.  The expense related to these benefits was not material
to the 1997, 1996 and 1995 consolidated results of operations.

10. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities

      At December 31, 1997, the Company was committed  under  operating  leases,
principally  for office  space.  Certain  leases are subject to rent reviews and
require payment of expenses under  escalation  clauses.  Rent expense was $235.9
million  in 1997,  $201.1  million  in 1996 and  $169.1  million  in 1995  after
reduction by rents received from  subleases of $12.8 million,  $11.9 million and
$11.1  million,   respectively.   Future  minimum  base  rents  under  terms  of
noncancellable  operating leases,  reduced by rents to be received from existing
noncancellable subleases, are as follows:

                                           (Dollars in Thousands)
                              Gross Rent        Sublease Rent        Net Rent
                              ----------     -------------------    ----------

1998.......................     $183,425          $11,308             $172,117
1999.......................      171,566            9,168              162,398
2000.......................      142,254            8,228              134,026
2001.......................      122,569            7,171              115,398
2002.......................      107,762            5,523              102,239
Thereafter.................      651,198           18,654              632,544

      The  present   value  of  the  gross  future   minimum  base  rents  under
noncancellable operating leases is $990.6 million.

      Where appropriate,  management has established reserves for the difference
between the cost of leased premises that were vacated and  anticipated  sublease
income.

      The Company is involved in various routine legal  proceedings  incident to
the ordinary  course of its business.  The Company  believes that the outcome of
all pending legal  proceedings  and unasserted  claims in the aggregate will not
have a  material  adverse  effect on its  results  of  operations,  consolidated
financial position or liquidity.

11. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

      The  following  table  presents the carrying  amounts and  estimated  fair
values of the  Company's  financial  instruments  at December 31, 1997 and 1996.
Amounts in parentheses represent liabilities.




                                      F-16


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial  instruments  for which it is practicable to estimate
that value:

Cash equivalents and investments available-for-sale:

      Cash equivalents and investments available-for-sale consist principally of
investments in short-term,  interest bearing instruments and are carried at fair
market value, which approximates cost.

Long-term investments:

      Included in deferred  charges and other assets are  long-term  investments
carried at cost, which approximates estimated fair value.

Long-term debt:

      In 1997, a portion of the Company's  long-term debt included floating rate
debt,  the  carrying  value of which  approximates  fair  value.  The  Company's
long-term debt also included convertible subordinated debentures. The fair value
was determined by reference to quotations  available in markets where that issue
was traded.  These  quotations  primarily  reflected the conversion value of the
debentures into the Company's common stock.

      In 1996,  the  majority  of the  Company's  long-term  debt was  primarily
floating rate debt and consequently the carrying amount approximates fair value.

Financial Commitments:

      The  estimated  fair  values  of  derivative   positions  are  based  upon
quotations  received from  independent,  third party banks and represent the net
amount  required to terminate the  position,  taking into  consideration  market
rates and counterparty  credit risk. The fair values of guarantees,  principally
related to affiliated companies,  and letters of credit were based upon the face
value of the underlying instruments.

12. Financial Instruments and Market Risk

      The Company utilizes  derivative  financial  instruments  predominantly to
reduce certain market risks to which the Company is exposed.  These market risks
primarily  consist of the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on assets
and  liabilities  of non-U.S.  operations  and the impact of changes in interest
rates on debt.  The Company's  derivative  activities  are limited in volume and
confined  to  risk  management  activities.  Senior  management  at the  Company
actively  participates  in the  quantification,  monitoring  and  control of all
significant  risks. A reporting system is in place which evaluates the impact on
the  Company's  earnings  resulting  from  changes in interest  rates,  currency
exchange  rates and other  relevant  market risks.  This system is structured to
enable senior  management to initiate  prompt remedial  action,  if appropriate.
Adequate  segregation of duties exists with regard to the  execution,  recording
and monitoring of derivative activities. Additionally, senior management reports
periodically  to the  Audit  Committee  of the  Board  of  Directors  concerning
derivative   activities.   Since  1993,  the  Audit  Committee  has  established
limitations  on derivative  activities  which are reviewed  annually.  The Audit
Committee  reconfirmed,  for the  year  1997,  the  overall  dollar  limitations
originally  established  in 1993,  and will be requested  to reconfirm  the same
limitations for 1998.

      There were no swap agreements outstanding at December 31, 1997 and 1996.

      The Company enters into forward foreign exchange  contracts  predominantly
to hedge intercompany  receivables and payables which are recorded in a currency
different  from  that in which  they  will  settle.  Gains  and  losses on these
positions  are  deferred  and  included  in the  basis of the  transaction  upon
settlement.  The terms of these contracts are generally three months or less. At
December 31, 1997 and 1996, the aggregate amount of intercompany receivables and
payables  subject to this  hedge  program  was $532  million  and $287  million,
respectively.  The  table  below  summarizes  by  major  currency  the  notional
principal   amounts  of  the  Company's   forward  foreign  exchange   contracts
outstanding at December 31, 1997 and 1996. The "buy" amounts  represent the U.S.
dollar  equivalent of commitments to purchase the respective  currency,  and the
"sell" amounts  represent the U.S. dollar  equivalent of commitments to sell the
respective currency.


                                      F-17


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



      The  derivative  financial  instruments  existing at December 31, 1997 and
1996 were entered into for the purpose of hedging certain specific  currency and
interest rate risks.  As a result of these  financial  instruments,  the Company
reduced  financial  risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) which might
have  occurred if the markets moved  favorably.  In using  derivative  financial
instruments,  management  exchanged  the  risks  of the  financial  markets  for
counterparty  risk.  In order to minimize  counterparty  risk the  Company  only
enters into derivative  contracts with major  well-known  banks that have credit
ratings equal to or better than the Company's.

13. Adoption of New Accounting Principles

      In June 1997,  the FASB  issued  SFAS No.  130,  "Reporting  Comprehensive
Income".  SFAS No.  130  establishes  standards  for  reporting  and  display of
comprehensive  income and its  components.  Adoption of SFAS No. 130 is required
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997.

      In June  1997,  the FASB also  issued  SFAS No.  131,  "Disclosures  about
Segments  of an  Enterprise  and  Related  Information".  SFAS No. 131  requires
disclosures  regarding  operating  segments,  products and services,  geographic
areas and major customers of an enterprise in both the complete set of financial
statements   and  the  condensed   interim   financial   statements   issued  to
shareholders.  Adoption of SFAS No. 131 is required for fiscal  years  beginning
after December 15, 1997.

      The Company will adopt the provisions of these standards in 1998.

14. Subsequent Events

      On January 6, 1998, the Company issued  $230,000,000 of 21/4%  Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures  with a scheduled  maturity in 2013. The debentures are
convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion price of $49.83 per
share subject to adjustment in certain events.  Debenture holders have the right
to require the Company to redeem the debentures on January 6, 2004 at a price of
118.968%,  or upon the  occurrence  of a Fundamental  Change,  as defined in the
indenture agreement,  at the prevailing redemption price. The Company may redeem
the  debentures,  as a whole or in part, on or after December 31, 2001 initially
at 112.841% and at increasing  prices  thereafter  to 118.968%  until January 6,
2004,  and 100%  thereafter.  Unless  the  debentures  are  redeemed,  repaid or
converted prior thereto,  the debentures will mature on January 6, 2013 at their
principal  amount.  The  proceeds  of this  issuance  are being used for general
corporate purposes, including working capital.


                                      F-18


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      On January 29, 1998, the Company announced that it had reached agreement
on the terms of a recommended cash offer for The GGT Group plc ("GGT"), an
advertising and marketing services group headquartered in the United Kingdom and
operating primarily in France, the United Kingdom and the United States. The
offer price of 200p for each share valued GGT's fully diluted ordinary share
capital at 143 million pounds (approximately $235 million at the January 29,
1998 exchange rate). On March 24, 1998, the Company had received acceptances in
respect of, or was the beneficial owner of, over 90% of GGT's ordinary share
capital.

      On February 20, 1998, the Company amended and restated the $360 million
revolving credit agreement originally entered into in 1996. The amended and
restated $500 million revolving credit agreement is with a consortium of banks
and expires on June 30, 2003.

      On March 4, 1998, the Company issued 4,000,000 shares of common stock for
aggregate proceeds before expenses of $171,400,000. The proceeds of this
issuance will be used for general corporate purposes, including the funding of
the acquisition of The GGT Group plc.


                                      F-19


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)

      The  following  table  sets  forth a summary  of the  unaudited  quarterly
results of  operations  for the two years ended  December 31, 1997 and 1996,  in
thousands of dollars except for per share amounts.  The information set forth in
the following  table gives effect to the  two-for-one  stock split  completed in
December  1997.  In  addition,  as  discussed  in the notes to the  consolidated
financial  statements,  information  for the  first  quarter  of 1996  has  been
restated from the amounts originally  reported as a result of the acquisition of
Ketchum Communications  Holdings, Inc. during 1996 which was accounted for under
the pooling-of-interests method of accounting.

                                    First       Second      Third       Fourth  
                                     -----      ------       -----      -------
 Commissions & Fees              
     1997....................      $696,577    $786,341    $746,839    $895,056
     1996....................       591,601     666,465     631,772     751,829
                                 
 Income Before Income Taxes      
     1997....................        69,641     117,913      73,060     120,631
     1996....................        55,015      95,101      55,160      99,955
                                 
 Income Taxes                    
     1997....................        28,266      48,045      29,879      50,294
     1996....................        22,271      38,426      22,236      40,706
                                 
 Income After Income Taxes       
     1997....................        41,375      69,868      43,181      70,337
     1996....................        32,744      56,675      32,924      59,249
                                 
 Equity in Affiliates            
     1997....................         4,144       7,282       4,601      14,062
     1996....................         3,053       4,023       3,509       9,925
                                 
 Minority Interests              
     1997....................        (5,451)    (10,751)     (6,291)     (9,942)
     1996....................        (4,884)     (7,745)     (4,200)     (8,944)
                                 
 Net Income                      
     1997....................        40,068      66,399      41,491      74,457
     1996....................        30,913      52,953      32,233      60,230
                                 
 Basic Earnings Per Share        
     1997....................          0.25        0.41        0.26        0.47
     1996....................          0.21        0.36        0.21        0.38
                                 
 Diluted Earnings Per Share      
     1997....................          0.25        0.40        0.26        0.45
     1996....................          0.21        0.34        0.21        0.37


                                      F-20


                                                                     Schedule II

                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                  For the Three Years Ended December 31, 1997


- ----------
(1)   Net of  acquisition  date balances in allowance  for doubtful  accounts of
      companies  acquired  of  $2,013,  $985 and $463 in 1997,  1996,  and 1995,
      respectively.


                                      S-1

