10-K


file1.htm

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

FORM 10-K

Annual Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of

the Securities Exchange Act of

For the fiscal year ended December
31, 2006

Commission File Number
1-4858

INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES
INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified
in its
charter)

Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code (212)
765-5500

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION
12(b) OF THE
ACT:

TITLE
OF EACH
CLASS

NAME OF
EACH EXCHANGE ON

WHICH
REGISTERED

Common
Stock, par value 12½¢ per share

New
York Stock Exchange

SECURITIES
REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE
ACT:

None

Indicate by check mark if the
Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act. Yes

No

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and
(2)  has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days. Yes

No

Indicate by check
mark whether the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section  13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendments to this Form 10-K.

Indicate by
check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of
‘‘accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer’’ in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.

Large
accelerated filer

Accelerated filer

Non-accelerated filer

Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12B-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes

No

For the purpose of
reporting the following market value of Registrant’s outstanding
common stock, the term ‘‘affiliate’’ refers
to persons, entities or groups which directly or indirectly control,
are controlled by, or are under common control with the Registrant and
does not include individual executive officers, directors or less than
10% shareholders. The aggregate market value of
Registrant’s common stock not held by affiliates as of
June  30,  2006 was $3,204,758,056.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
Registrant’s classes of common stock, as of February
15,  2007:    89,772,171 shares of common stock, par value 12
½¢ per share.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the
Registrant’s Proxy Statement to be sent to shareholders in
connection with the 2007 Annual Meeting (the ‘‘IFF 2007
Proxy Statement’’) are incorporated by reference in Part
III of this Form 10-K.

INTERNATIONAL
FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES INC.

TABLE OF
CONTENTS


PART
I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS.

International
Flavors & Fragrances Inc., incorporated in New York in 1909 and its
subsidiaries (the ‘‘Registrant’’,
‘‘IFF’’ or the
‘‘Company’’), is a leading creator and
manufacturer of flavor and fragrance products used by other
manufacturers to impart or improve flavor or fragrance in a wide
variety of consumer products. Fragrance products are sold principally
to manufacturers of perfumes, cosmetics, personal care products, hair
care products, deodorants, soaps, detergents and air care products;
flavor products are sold principally to manufacturers of prepared
foods, beverages, dairy foods, pharmaceuticals and confectionery
products as well as the food service industry.

The Company
currently has 30 manufacturing facilities with the major manufacturing
facilities located in the United States, Great Britain, Ireland, the
Netherlands, Spain, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, India, Australia, China,
Indonesia, Japan and Singapore. The remaining manufacturing facilities
are located in 8 other countries. The Company maintains its own sales
and distribution facilities in 30 countries and is represented by sales
agents and distributors in other countries. The Company’s
principal executive offices are located at 521 West 57th Street, New
York, New York 10019 (212-765-5500).

MARKETS

Fragrance
products are used by customers in the manufacture of consumer products
such as soaps, detergents, cosmetic creams, lotions and powders,
lipsticks, after-shave lotions, deodorants, hair preparations, candles,
air fresheners and all-purpose cleaners as well as in other consumer
products designed solely to appeal to the sense of smell, such as
perfumes and colognes. The cosmetics industry, including perfume and
toiletries manufacturers, is one of the Company’s two largest
fragrance customer groups. Most of the major United States companies in
this industry are customers of the Company, and five of the largest
United States cosmetics companies are among its principal customers.
The household products industry, including soaps and detergents, is the
other important fragrance customer group. Four of the largest United
States household product manufacturers are major customers of the
Company. In the three years ended December  31,  2006,
sales of fragrance products accounted for 57%, 57% and
55%, respectively, of the Company’s total sales.

Flavor products are sold principally to the food and beverage
industries for use in consumer products such as soft drinks, candies,
baked goods, desserts, prepared foods, dietary foods, dairy products,
drink powders, pharmaceuticals, snack foods and alcoholic beverages.
Two of the Company’s largest customers for flavor products are
major producers of prepared foods and beverages in the United States.
In the three years ended December  31,  2006, sales of
flavor products accounted for 43%, 43% and 45%,
respectively, of the Company’s total sales.

PRODUCTS

The Company’s principal fragrance and flavor products consist
of compounds of large numbers of ingredients blended in proprietary
formulas created by its perfumers and flavorists. Most of these
compounds contribute the total fragrance or flavor to the consumer
products in which they are used. This fragrance or flavor
characteristic is often a major factor in the consumer selection and
acceptance of the consumer end product. A smaller number of compounds
are sold to manufacturers who further blend them to achieve the
finished fragrance or flavor in their products. The Company produces
thousands of compounds, and new compounds are constantly being created
in order to meet the many and changing characteristics of its
customers’ end products. Most of the fragrance and flavor
compounds are created and produced for the exclusive use of particular
customers. The Company’s products are sold in solid and liquid
forms and in amounts ranging from a few pounds to many tons, depending
upon the nature of the product.

The ingredients used by the
Company in its compounds are both synthetic and natural. The Company
manufactures a substantial portion of the synthetic ingredients. While
the major part of the


Company’s production of synthetic
ingredients is used in its compounds, a substantial portion is also
sold to others. The natural ingredients are derived from flowers,
fruits and other botanical products as well as from animal products.
They contain varying numbers of organic chemicals, which are
responsible for the fragrance or flavor of the natural product. The
natural products are purchased for the larger part in processed or
semi-processed form. Some are used in compounds in the state in which
they are purchased and others after further processing. Natural
products, together with various chemicals, are also used as raw
materials for the manufacture of synthetic ingredients by chemical
processes. The Company’s flavor products also include extracts
and seasonings derived from various fruits, vegetables, nuts, herbs and
spices as well as microbiologically-derived ingredients.

MARKET
DEVELOPMENTS

The demand for consumer products utilizing flavors
and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social
habits resulting from various factors such as increases in personal
income, and dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time,
health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world
population. In the fragrance field, these developments have expanded
the market for hair care, candles and air care products and deodorant
and personal wash products with finer fragrance quality, as well as the
market for colognes, toilet waters, men’s toiletries and other
products beyond traditional luxury items such as perfumes. In the
flavor field, similar market characteristics have stimulated the demand
for products such as convenience foods, soft drinks and low-fat food
products that must conform to expected tastes. New and improved methods
of packaging, application and dispensing have been developed for many
consumer products that utilize some of the Company’s flavor or
fragrance products. These developments have called for the creation of
new compounds and ingredients compatible with the newly introduced
materials and methods of application.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND
RESEARCH

The development of new flavors and fragrances is a
complex technical and artistic process calling upon the combined
knowledge and skill of the Company’s creative perfumers and
flavorists, and its scientists. With extensive experience, the
perfumers and flavorists continuously advance their skills for creating
fragrances or flavors best suited to the market requirements of the
customers’ products.

Scientists from various disciplines
work in project teams with the perfumers and flavorists to develop
fragrance and flavor products with consumer preferred performance
characteristics. Scientific expertise includes: natural products
research, plant science, organic chemistry, analytical chemistry,
biochemistry, microbiology, process engineering, food science, material
science and sensory science. Analytical and sensory science is applied
to understand the complex interactions of the many ingredients in a
consumer product in order to optimize the flavor or fragrance
performance at all points of use. Material science technology is
applied to create controlled release and delivery systems to enhance
flavor and fragrance performance in consumer products. An important
contribution to the creation of new fragrances and flavors is the
discovery and development of new ingredients having improved fragrance
or flavor value. The ingredients research program discovers molecules
found in natural substances and creates new molecules that are
subsequently tested for their fragrance or flavor value. The new
molecules that meet rigorous requirements for commercial development
are subsequently transferred to manufacturing operations for
production.

Creative and technical product development is
conducted in 32 fragrance and flavor laboratories in 23 countries. The
Company maintains a research and development center at Union Beach, New
Jersey. The Company spent $186  million in 2006, $180
million in 2005 and $175  million in 2004 on its research and
development activities. These expenditures are currently expected to
increase in 2007 to approximately $190  million. Of the amount
expended in 2006 on such activities, 64% was for fragrances and
the balance was for flavors. The Company employed 1,065 persons in 2006
and 1,095  persons in 2005 in such activities.

The
business of the Company is not materially dependent upon any patents,
trademarks or licenses.


DISTRIBUTION

Most of the
Company’s sales are through its own sales force, operating from 4
sales offices in the United States and 46 sales offices in 29 foreign
countries. Sales in additional countries are made through agents and
distributors. For the year ended December  31,  2006,
29% of the Company’s sales were to customers in North
America, 36% in Europe, 17% in Asia Pacific, 14%
in Latin America and 4% in the India Region. For additional
information with respect to the Company’s operations by major
geographical region, see Note 13 of the Notes to the Company’s
Consolidated Financial Statements.

During 2006, the
Company’s 30 largest customers accounted for 57% of its
sales; its five largest customers accounted for 9.7%,
8.1%, 6.2%, 4.7% and 2.4%, respectively, of
its sales, and no other single customer accounted for more than
2% of sales.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

Manufacture
and sale of the Company’s products are subject to regulation in
the United States by the Food and Drug Administration, the Agriculture
Department, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the
Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration and state
authorities. Foreign subsidiaries are subject to similar regulation in
a number of countries. In particular, the European Union in
December  2006 adopted legislation requiring extensive chemical
registration and testing over the next 11 years. Compliance with
existing governmental requirements regulating the discharge of
materials into the environment has not materially affected the
Company’s operations, earnings or competitive position. The
Company expects to spend in 2007 approximately $5  million in
capital projects and $16  million in operating expenses and
governmental charges for the purpose of complying with such
requirements.

RAW MATERIAL PURCHASES

More than 5,000
different raw materials are purchased from many sources all over the
world. The principal natural raw material purchases consist of
essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits,
vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products and
raw fruits. The principal synthetic raw material purchases consist of
organic chemicals. The Company believes that alternate sources of
materials are available to enable it to maintain its competitive
position in the event of any interruption in the supply of raw
materials from present sources.

COMPETITION

The Company
has more than 50 competitors in the United States and world markets.
While no single factor is responsible, the Company’s competitive
position is based principally on the creative skills of its perfumers
and flavorists, the technological advances resulting from its research
and development, the quality of its customer service, the support
provided by its marketing and application groups, and its understanding
of consumers. The Company believes that it is one of the largest
companies producing and marketing on an international basis a wide
range of fragrance and flavor products for sale to manufacturers of
consumer products. In particular countries and localities, the Company
faces competition from numerous companies specializing in certain
product lines, among which are some companies larger than the Company
and some more important in a particular product line or lines. Most of
the Company’s customers do not buy all their fragrance or flavor
products from the same supplier, and some customers make their own
fragrance or flavor compounds with ingredients supplied by the Company
or others.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

At December
31,  2006, the Company employed 5,087 persons, of whom 1,382 were
employed in the United States. The Company has never experienced a work
stoppage or strike and considers its employee relations to be
satisfactory.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF
REGISTRANT:

(1)

Employed
by the Company or an affiliated company for the last five years, except
as otherwise indicated.


AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company
makes available free of charge on or through the Investor Relations
link on its website,

www.iff.com

, all materials that it files
electronically with the SEC, including its annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as
reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with,
or furnishing them to, the SEC. During the period covered by this Form
10-K, the Company made all such materials available through its website
as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with the
SEC.

You may also read and copy any materials filed by the
Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, and you may obtain information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC in the
U.S. at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet
website,

www.sec.gov

, that contains reports, proxy and
information statements and other information that the Company files
electronically with the SEC.

A copy of the Company’s
Corporate Governance Guidelines, its Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics, and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation
Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of
Directors are posted on the Investor Relations section of the
Company’s website,

www.iff.com

and are available in print
to any shareholder who requests copies by contacting Dennis M.
Meany,  Senior  Vice  President,
General  Counsel and Secretary, at the Company’s principal
executive office set forth above.

Item
1A.

Risk Factors.

Competitive factors may
negatively impact our sales and marketability.

The market for
flavor and fragrance products is fragmented and highly competitive. IFF
competes with many companies and some of the Company’s
competitors specialize in one or more of our product lines while others
sell many of the same product lines. In addition, some of our
competitors may have greater financial and technical resources.
Increased competition by existing or future competitors, including
aggressive price competition, could result in the need for the Company
to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an impact on
sales and profitability.

The Company is subject to economic and
social changes which may impact sales.

Demand for consumer
products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened
by changing social habits resulting from factors such as increases in
personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure
time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in
world population. Changes in any number of external economic factors,
or changes in social or consumer preferences, could adversely impact
our results of operations.

The Company’s results
may be negatively impacted by the price, quality and availability of
raw materials.

Raw materials are purchased from many sources
from all over the world, including essential oils, extracts and
concentrate derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other
botanicals, animal products, raw fruits and organic chemicals.
Disruptions in the supply or quality of ingredients or rising prices
for ingredients purchased could adversely impact results of operations
and profitability of the Company.

The Company’s
results may be negatively impacted by the inability to implement the
Company’s business strategy, including the achievement of
anticipated cost savings, profitability or growth targets.

The Company is committed to those particular business
strategies which have been identified as likely to drive profitable
future growth and improve operations and customer service. If the
Company is unable to successfully and timely implement these
strategies, it would adversely impact the financial condition and
results of operations of the Company.


The Company’s results may be
negatively impacted by the impact of currency fluctuation or
devaluation in principal foreign markets and the effectiveness of
hedging and risk management strategies.

The Company’s
operations are conducted in many countries, the results of which are
reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at
applicable exchange rates. The exchange rates between these currencies
and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated and may continue to do so in the
future. The Company employs a variety of techniques to reduce the
impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency
hedging activities. However, volatility in currency exchange rates may
adversely impact the Company’s reported results of operations,
financial condition or liquidity.

The Company’s results
may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to
litigation.

The Company is involved in a number of legal
claims. While the Company believes that related insurance coverage is
adequate with respect to such claims, the Company cannot predict the
ultimate outcome of such litigation. In addition, the Company cannot
provide assurance that future events will not require an increase in
the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or
more claims that has not been previously accrued.

The
Company’s results and cash flows may be negatively impacted by
future pension funding and other postretirement obligations.

The Company establishes assumptions concerning discount rates and
actuarial assumptions regarding pension funding and other
postretirement benefit obligations based on current market conditions,
plan participants, asset returns, interest rates and other factors.
Changes in pension and other postretirement benefits, and associated
expenses, may occur in the future due to changes in demographics and
assumptions. These changes may adversely impact the Company’s
financial condition, results of operations or
liquidity.

The Company’s results may be
negatively impacted by the effect of legal and regulatory requirements,
as well as restrictions imposed on operations by foreign and domestic
governmental entities.

Manufacture and sale of the
Company’s products are subject to regulation in the United
States by the Food and Drug Administration, the Agriculture Department,
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Environmental
Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration,
the Drug Enforcement Administration and state authorities. Foreign
operations of the Company are subject to similar governmental
regulation in a number of countries, including the extensive new
European Union requirements. Compliance with existing governmental
requirements and future governmental regulations may adversely impact
the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or
liquidity.

The Company may face risks associated with events
which may affect the world economy.

World events such as
terrorist attacks, the current U.S. military action in the Middle East
and elsewhere, and hostilities in the Middle East, Asia and other
geographical areas, have and may in the future weaken the U.S. and
world economies. Any resulting weaknesses in these economies may
adversely affect the Company’s business or the businesses of our
customers, with a resultant negative impact on the Company’s
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

ITEM
1B.

Unresolved SEC Staff
Comments.

None.


ITEM
2.

PROPERTIES.

The principal properties of
the Company are as follows:


(1)

Leased.

(2)

The
Company has a 93.3% interest in the subsidiary company that owns
this facility.

(3)

Land is leased and building
and machinery and equipment are owned.

(4)

The
Company has a 90% interest in the subsidiary that leases the
land and owns the buildings and machinery.

(5)

Land is leased and building is partially leased and
partially owned.

The principal executive offices of the
Company and its New York laboratory facilities are located at 521 West
57th Street, New York City.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS.

The Company is subject to various claims and legal
actions in the ordinary course of its business. In September
2001, the Company was named as a defendant in a purported class action
brought against it in the Circuit Court of Jasper County, Missouri, on
behalf of employees of a plant owned and operated by Gilster-Mary Lee
Corp. in Jasper, Missouri (‘‘

Benavides

case’’). The plaintiffs alleged that they sustained
respiratory injuries in the workplace due to the use by Gilster-Mary
Lee of a BBA and/or IFF flavor. For purposes of reporting these
actions, BBA and/or IFF are referred to as the
(‘‘Company’’).

In January
2004, the Court ruled that class action status was not warranted. As a
result of this decision, each of the 47 plaintiff cases was to be tried
separately. Subsequently, 8 cases were tried to a verdict, 4 verdicts
resulted for the plaintiffs and 4 verdicts resulted for the Company,
all of which were appealed by the losing party. Subsequently all
plaintiff cases related to the

Benavides

case have been
settled.

Eighteen other actions based on similar claims of
alleged respiratory illness due to workplace exposure to flavor
ingredients are currently pending against the Company and other flavor
suppliers and related companies. Trial has been scheduled in the action
brought against the Company and another flavor supplier by 29 former
and current workers at a Marion, Ohio factory. This case was filed in
March  2003 and is pending in the Court of Common Pleas of
Hamilton County, Ohio. The Plaintiffs in this case have been divided
into trial groups, although no trials have occurred to date. The other
flavor company has settled with all plaintiffs and the Company has
settled with 17 plaintiffs by confidential agreement. Two other
plaintiffs have been dismissed. The first trial is currently scheduled
for February  2007 (‘‘

Arthur

case’’). In May  2004, the Company and another flavor
supplier were named defendants, and subsequently a number of third
party defendants were added, in a


lawsuit by 4 former workers at a Ridgeway,
Illinois factory in an action brought in the Circuit Court for the
Second Judicial Circuit, Gallatin County, Illinois (

Barker

case) and another concerning 8 other workers at this same plant was
filed in July  2004 and is pending in this same Court against the
Company and another flavor supplier (

Batteese

case). In an
action filed in June  2004, the Company, three other flavor
suppliers, a flavor trade association and a consulting agency are
defendants in a lawsuit by 1 worker at a Sioux City, Iowa facility
which is pending in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Iowa. Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed his claim against Bush Boake
Allen, Inc. This case was settled by confidential agreement in
October  2006 (

Remmes

case). Another case concerning 1
other worker at this same plant was filed in January  2006 and is
pending in this same court against the same parties. The trial ready
date is November  2007 (

Kuiper

case). In June
2004, the Company and 3 other flavor suppliers were named defendants in
a lawsuit by 1 plaintiff brought in the Court of Common Pleas, Hamilton
County, Ohio. Trial is set for November  2007 (

Mitchell

case). In June  2004, the Company and 2 other flavor suppliers
were named defendants in a lawsuit by 1 former worker at a Northlake,
Illinois facility in an action brought in the Circuit Court of Cook
County, Illinois. Trial is set for September  2007
(

Lopez

case). In August  2004, the Company and another
flavor supplier were named defendants in a lawsuit by 15 former workers
at a Marion, Ohio factory in an action brought in the Court of Common
Pleas, Marion County, Ohio. The other flavor supplier settled with all
plaintiffs and the Company has settled with 12 plaintiffs by
confidential agreement. The remaining plaintiffs have been divided into
trial groups and the first trial is currently scheduled to be held in
May  2007 (

Williams

case). In March  2005, the
Company and 10 other companies were named defendants in a lawsuit by 1
former employee of Bell Flavors and Fragrances, Inc. in an action
brought in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois. On June
29,  2006, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their claims against
one of the defendants, EMCO Chemical Distributors. There is no trial
date pending (

Robinson

case). In July  2005, the Company
and 9 other flavor and chemical suppliers were named defendants in a
lawsuit by 1 former worker of Brach’s Confections, Inc. in an
action brought in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois. There is
no trial date pending (

Campbell

case). In August  2005,
the Company and 8 other companies, including a flavor trade association
and consulting agency, were named defendants in a lawsuit by 3 former
employees of the Gilster-Mary Lee facility in McBride, Missouri in the
Missouri Circuit Court, 32nd Judicial Circuit (

Fults

case). In
September  2005, the Company and 10 other companies were named
defendants in a lawsuit by 2 former employees of the Gilster-Mary Lee
facility in McBride, Missouri in the Circuit Court of St. Louis County.
Trial is set for September  2007 (

Bowling

case). In
November  2005, the Company, a flavor trade association, and a
consulting agency were named defendants in a lawsuit by 1 former
employee of the Snappy Popcorn Company in Breda, Iowa brought in U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Iowa, Western Division. The
trial ready date is July  2007 (

Weimer

case). In
August  2006, the Company and 3 other flavor and chemical
suppliers were named defendants in a lawsuit by 39 current and former
employees and/or a neighbor of the Gilster-Mary Lee facility in Jasper,
Missouri in the Missouri Circuit Court of Jasper County (

Arles

case) and 5 other current and former employees in the same Court
(

Bowan

case). In November  2006, the Company and 18
other flavor and chemical suppliers were named defendants in a lawsuit
by 1 plaintiff allegedly injured by exposure to butter flavor and other
substances at various facilities in which he worked (

Solis

case). In January  2007, the Company and 2 other flavor suppliers
were named defendants in a lawsuit filed in Hamilton County, Ohio Court
of Common Pleas by 4 former employees of a popcorn packaging plant in
Iowa City, Iowa (

Blood

case). In January  2007, the
Company and another flavor supplier were named defendants in a lawsuit
filed in Hamilton County, Ohio Court of Common Pleas by 108 current and
former employees of a Marion, Ohio factory (

Aldrich

case).

The Company believes that all IFF and BBA flavors at issue
in these matters meet the requirements of the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and are safe for handling and use by workers in food
manufacturing plants when used according to specified safety
procedures. These procedures are detailed in instructions that IFF and
BBA provided to all their customers for the safe handling and use of
their flavors. It is the responsibility of IFF’s customers to
ensure that these instructions, which include the use of appropriate
engineering controls, such as adequate ventilation, proper handling
procedures and respiratory protection for workers, are followed in the
workplace.


At each balance sheet date, or more
frequently as conditions warrant, the Company reviews the status of
each pending claim, as well as its insurance coverage for such claims
with due consideration given to potentially applicable deductibles,
retentions and reservation of rights under its insurance policies, and
the advice of its outside legal counsel and a third party expert in
modeling insurance deductible amounts with respect to all these
matters. While the ultimate outcome of any litigation cannot be
predicted, management believes that adequate provision has been made
with respect to all known claims. Based on information presently
available and in light of the merits of its defenses and the
availability of insurance, the Company does not expect the outcome of
the above cases, singly or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of
operation or liquidity. There can be no assurance that future events
will not require the Company to increase the amount it has accrued for
any matter or accrue for a matter that has not been previously accrued.
See Note 17 for further information.

Over the past 20 years,
various federal and state authorities and private parties have claimed
that the Company is a potentially responsible party as a generator of
waste materials for alleged pollution at a number of waste sites
operated by third parties located principally in New Jersey and seek to
recover costs incurred and to be incurred to clean up the
sites.

The waste site claims and suits usually involve million
dollar amounts, and most of them are asserted against many potentially
responsible parties. Remedial activities typically consist of several
phases carried out over a period of years. Most site remedies begin
with investigation and feasibility studies, followed by physical
removal, destruction, treatment or containment of contaminated soil and
debris, and sometimes by groundwater monitoring and treatment. To date,
the Company’s financial responsibility for some sites has been
settled through agreements granting the Company, in exchange for one or
more cash payments made or to be made, either complete release of
liability or, for certain sites, release from further liability for
early and/or later remediation phases, subject to certain
‘‘re-opener’’ clauses for later-discovered
conditions. Settlements in respect of some sites involve, in part,
payment by the Company and other parties of a percentage of the
site’s future remediation costs over a period of
years.

The Company believes that the amounts it has paid and
anticipates paying in the future for clean-up costs and damages at all
sites are not and will not be material to the Company’s
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, because of the
involvement of other large potentially responsible parties at most
sites, because payment will be made over an extended time period and
because, pursuant to an agreement reached in July  1994 with
three of the Company’s liability insurers, defense costs and
indemnity amounts payable by the Company in respect of the sites will
be shared by the insurers up to an agreed amount.

ITEM
4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
HOLDERS.

None.


PART
II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S
COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES.

(a)    Market Information.

The Company’s common stock is traded principally on the New
York Stock Exchange. The high and low stock prices for each quarter
during the last two years were:

Approximate
Number of Equity Security Holders.

(A)

Title
of Class

(B)

Number of record holders as of

December
31, 2006

Common stock, par value
12½¢ per
share

3,393

Dividends.

Cash
dividends declared per share for each quarter since January  2005
were as follows:


Performance Graph.

Total Return To
Shareholders

(Includes reinvestment of
dividends)


(1)

The
Cumulative Shareholder Return assumes that the value of an investment
in the Company’s Common Stock and each index was $100 on
December  31,  2001, and that all dividends were
reinvested.

(2)

Due to the
international scope and breadth of its business, the Company believes
that a Peer Group comprised of international public companies which are
representative of the customer group to which it sells its products,
with market capitalizations ranging from approximately $589
million to approximately $205  billion, is the most appropriate
group against which to compare shareholder returns.

(c)    Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities.

(1)

An
aggregate of 6,892,000 shares of common stock was repurchased during
2006; 4,904,000 and 1,988,000 shares of common stock were purchased
under repurchase programs announced in May  2005 and
October  2006, respectively.

(2)

In
May  2005, the Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up
to $200  million of the Company’s common stock, which has
now been completed.

(3)

In October  2006,
the Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to $300
million of the Company’s common
stock.


ITEM 6.

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA.

INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES
INC.

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS
EXCEPT PER SHARE
AMOUNTS)

(a)

Net
Income in the 2006 first, second, third and fourth quarter includes the
after-tax effects of certain charges (credits) of $461, ($97), $210 and
$1,408, respectively. Net income in the 2005 fourth quarter includes
the after-tax effects of certain charges of $15,857. See Note 2 for
further discussion. Net income in the 2005 third quarter includes a tax
benefit of $23,290 relating to the repatriation of $242,000 of
dividends from foreign subsidiaries under the provisions of the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004; see Note 10 for further
discussion.

(b)

The sum of the 2006 and 2005
quarters’ net income per share does not equal the earnings per
share for the full year due to changes in average shares
outstanding.


INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES
INC.

FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE
AMOUNTS)

(a)

Restructuring
and other charges ($1,982 after tax) in 2006, ($15,857 after tax) in
2005, ($20,370 after tax) in 2004, ($27,514 after tax) in 2003 and
($7,745 after tax) in 2002 as a result of various reorganization
programs of the Company.

(b)

The 2006 amounts
reflect adoption of FAS 123(R). See Note 12 for further
details.

(c)

The 2006 amount reflect adoption of
FAS 158. See Note 14 for further
details.


ITEM
7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

Organization of
Information

Management’s Discussion and Analysis provides
a narrative on the Company’s operating performance, financial
condition and liquidity and should be read in conjunction with the
accompanying financial statements. It includes the following
sections:

•

Executive Overview

•

Sales Commentary

•

Operating Results

•

Acquisitions and Divestitures

•

Restructuring and Other Charges

•

Equity Compensation
Plans

•

Financial Condition

•

Market Risk

•

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of
Estimates

•

New Accounting Standards

•

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

•

Cautionary Statement Under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

Executive Overview

The Company is a leading creator and manufacturer of flavor and
fragrance compounds used to impart or improve the flavor or fragrance
in a wide variety of consumer products. The precise size of the global
market for flavors and fragrances is difficult to determine because the
industry is highly fragmented, both geographically and along product
lines; there are few publicly traded companies in the industry; certain
customers maintain in-house capabilities fulfilling a portion of their
flavor or fragrance needs; and the quality and depth of market
information in developing regions of the world is limited. Analysts
generally estimate the global market to be $11 – $12
billion of which IFF represents approximately 17% –
18%; the Company’s nearest sized competitor is of similar
size, although it is in the process of acquiring another flavor and
fragrance supplier which will result in it being substantially larger
than IFF. Currently, the five largest companies in the industry
combined represent approximately 65% – 70% of the
global market.

Fragrance compounds are used in perfumes,
cosmetics, toiletries, hair care products, deodorants, soaps,
detergents and softeners as well as air care products. Major fragrance
customers include the cosmetics industry, including perfume and
toiletries manufacturers, and the household products industry,
including manufacturers of soaps, detergents, household cleaners and
air fresheners. Flavor products are sold to the food and beverage
industries for use in consumer products such as prepared foods,
beverages, dairy, food and confectionery products. The Company is also
a leading manufacturer of synthetic ingredients used in making
fragrances. Approximately 55% of the Company’s ingredient
production is consumed internally; the balance is sold to third party
customers.

Changing social habits resulting from such
factors as changes in disposable income, leisure time, health concerns,
urbanization and population growth stimulate demand for consumer
products utilizing flavors and fragrances. These developments expand
the market for products with finer fragrance quality, as well as the
market for colognes and toiletries. Such developments also stimulate
demand for convenience foods, soft drinks and low-fat food products
that must conform to expected tastes. These developments necessitate
the creation and development of flavors and fragrances and ingredients
that are compatible with newly introduced materials and methods of
application used in consumer products.


Flavors and fragrances are generally:

•

created for the exclusive use of a specific
customer;

•

sold in solid or liquid form,
in amounts ranging from a few pounds to several tons depending on the
nature of the end product in which they are used;

•

a small percentage of the volume and cost
of the end product sold to the consumer; and

•

a major factor in consumer selection and
acceptance of the product.

Flavors and fragrances have similar
economic and operational characteristics, including research and
development, the nature of the creative and production processes, the
manner in which products are distributed and the type of customer; many
of the Company’s customers purchase both flavors and
fragrances.

The flavor and fragrance industry is impacted by
macroeconomic factors in all product categories and geographic regions.
Such factors include the impact of currency on the price of raw
materials and operating costs as well as on translation of reported
results. In addition, pricing pressure placed on the Company’s
customers by large and powerful retailers and distributors is
inevitably passed along to the Company, and its competitors. Leadership
in innovation and creativity mitigates the impact of pricing pressure.
Success and growth in the industry is dependent upon creativity and
innovation in meeting the many and varied needs of the customers’
products in a cost-efficient and effective manner, and with a
consistently high level of timely service and delivery.

The
Company produces more than 31,000 unique compounds, of which
approximately 60% are flavors and 40% fragrances. The
Company continually creates new compounds to meet the changing
characteristics and needs of its customers’ end products. No
single compound represents more than 1% of net sales.
Development of fragrances and flavors is a complex technical and
artistic process calling upon the combined knowledge and talents of
creative perfumers and flavorists, and application and research
chemists. An important element of creation is the development of new
ingredients. The Company bears essentially all costs incurred in
connection with the creation and development of new flavors and
fragrances and such formulae are generally protected under trade
secrecy. The Company is not materially dependent on any patents,
trademarks or licenses.

The Company’s strategic direction
is defined by the following:

•

Be a
global leader in fragrances and flavors;
and

•

Provide our customers with
differentiated solutions.

The Company’s plan to achieve
this strategy is to:

•

Implement a
business unit focus that will align management and resources with the
needs of its strategic customers and provide greater accountability;
this will drive improved results.

•

Focus
its research and development efforts on those projects considered most
likely to drive future profitable growth. The Company anticipates much
of this research will be conducted internally, but such efforts may be
augmented by joint research undertakings and through acquisition of
technology.

•

Provide quality products,
safe and suitable for inclusion in its customers’ end products;
an essential element is the consistent quality and safety of raw
materials achieved through a combination of steps including but not
limited to vendor certification and quality assurance
testing.

•

Continuously improving its
operations and customer service supported by the global enterprise
requirements planning software package
(‘‘SAP’’), and related initiatives.

•

Build a culture that attracts, retains and
develops the best talent in the world. Our customers, stakeholders and
employees expect the best.

As implementation of our strategy
progresses, setting strategic initiatives requires regular
establishment and reassessment of priorities and necessitates choices
in order to provide the best opportunity for continuous improvement in
shareholder value.


Sales Commentary

A breakdown of
sales by principal product category is depicted in the graph below.

2006 Sales by Category

The
Company’s five largest customers comprise 31% of
consolidated sales and its top thirty customers 57%; these
percentages have remained fairly constant for several years although
sales to larger customers, as a percentage of total sales, are trending
higher. No customer accounts for 10% or more of sales. A key
factor for commercial success is inclusion on core supplier lists of
strategic customers, opening opportunities to win new business. The
Company is currently on the majority of core supplier lists of its
strategic customers.

Net sales for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as
follows (in millions):

The
Company currently manages its operations by major geographical region
and considers destination sales a key performance measure. Although
reported sales and earnings are affected by the weakening or
strengthening of the U.S. dollar, this has not had a long-term effect
on the underlying strength of the Company’s business.

2006 Sales by
Destination


In 2004, the Company disposed of
its European fruit preparation business; disposal did not materially
impact operating results. The following table summarizes sales on a
geographic basis and reflects adjustments, as appropriate, to exclude
sales attributable to the fruit business (in millions):

Net
sales below are adjusted to exclude all sales associated with the fruit
business (in millions):

in Comparison to 2005

In 2006, net sales increased 5% in
both dollars and local currency compared to 2005. The sales performance
was led by strong growth in fine fragrances driven primarily by new
product introductions and continued success of existing creations.
Flavor sales increased compared to 2005 due to a combination of new
product introductions and volume growth.

Regional and
product category sales performance for 2006 compared to the prior year,
in reported dollars and local currency, was as
follows:

•

North
America fine fragrances and flavors increased primarily from new
product introductions of $25  million and $21  million,
respectively; functional fragrances new product introductions totaled
$14  million, the benefit of which was partially offset by
declines in volume. Ingredient sales growth was due to a combination of
both volume and price.


•

European growth
was strongest in Eastern Europe, Middle East, France, Italy and Spain.
Fine and functional fragrance growth resulted from new product
introductions of $33  million in each category, while the decline
in ingredients was volume related. Flavor growth was the result of new
product introductions of $11  million, partially offset by
declines in volume.

•

Latin America fine
fragrance sales growth resulted from new product introductions of
$14  million while functional fragrance product introductions of
$9  million were partially offset by volume decreases. Ingredient
sales growth resulted from new product introductions. Flavor sales were
strong throughout the region, driven mainly by new product
introductions of $8  million.

•

Asia Pacific fragrance sales growth
resulted mainly from new product introductions of $4  million;
ingredients sales growth was mainly volume related. Flavor sales growth
resulted mainly from new product introductions of $6  million and
volume growth.

•

India fragrance sales
performance was mainly volume related in all categories. Flavor sales
increased due to volume growth and new production introductions of
approximately $5  million.

2005 in Comparison to

In 2005, reported sales declined 2% in dollars and
3% in local currency compared to 2004. The sales performance was
led by strong growth in fine fragrances driven mainly by new wins.
Flavor sales comparisons in 2005 were impacted by the disposition, in
the second half of 2004, of the Company’s European fruit
preparations business. On an as-adjusted basis, excluding the
$59  million in sales attributable to the fruit business from
2004 results, both 2005 consolidated sales and flavor sales would have
increased 1% in dollars and been flat in local currency. Flavor
sales, most notably in North America and Europe, were also unfavorably
impacted by lower selling prices for naturals, mainly vanilla.

Regional and product category sales performance for 2005
compared to the prior year, in reported dollars and local currency, was
as follows:

•

North
America fine fragrance growth resulted from $14  million in new
product introductions, although this growth was partially offset by
erosion of existing products of $10  million. Functional
fragrance sales realized new product introductions of $10
million though such growth was offset by erosion in existing products
of $20  million. Flavors reported new product introductions of
$21  million offset by erosion in existing
products.

•

Europe fine fragrance sales in
local currency increased 13%, driven primarily by new product
introductions, while functional fragrances and ingredient sales
declines were mainly volume related. Flavor sales declined due to the
disposition of the fruit preparations business. On an as-adjusted
basis, excluding sales attributable to the fruit business from 2004
results, 2005 flavor sales would have been flat in dollars and
decreased 1% in local currency.


•

Latin America
fragrance sales growth resulted from new product introductions of
$18  million; the ingredient sales increase was volume related.
Flavor sales were strong throughout the region, driven mainly by new
product introductions of $9  million and volume growth.

•

Asia Pacific fine fragrance sales growth
resulted mainly from new product introductions of $3  million and
volume growth; variations in functional fragrance and ingredient sales
were mainly volume related. Flavor sales growth resulted from new
product introductions of $4  million and volume
growth.

•

India sales increased in both
local currency and reported dollars. In both flavors and fragrances,
the sales performance reflected the benefit of new product
introductions and continued strong economic
conditions.

Operating Results

The relationship of cost
of goods sold and other operating expenses to net sales was as
follows:

Cost
of goods sold includes the cost of materials and manufacturing
expenses; raw materials generally constitute 70% of the total.
Research expenses are for the development of new and improved products,
technical product support, compliance with governmental regulations,
and help in maintaining relationships with customers who are often
dependent on technological advances. Selling, general and
administrative expenses support the Company’s sales and operating
levels.

Segment profit, which excludes the effect of
restructuring and other charges, was $332  million in 2006,
$290  million in 2005 and $342  million in 2004. The
Company recorded restructuring and other charges of $3  million,
$23  million, and $32  million in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Operating profit totaled $329  million, $267
million and $310  million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
See Note 13 for further details.

2006 in Comparison to 2005

Cost of goods sold, as a percentage of sales, decreased 80 basis
points compared with 2005. The decline was mainly the result of the
improved sales performance, leading to better absorption of
manufacturing expenses, and favorable product mix. The Company also
benefited from the elimination of 69 manufacturing positions, mainly in
North America and Europe, which resulted in savings of $4
million. The average cost of raw materials purchased by the Company
increased 2%  –  3% in comparison to
the prior year.

Research and Development
(‘‘R&D’’) expenses were 8.9% of
sales; spending in 2007 is expected to remain at approximately
9.0% of sales.

Selling, General and Administrative
(‘‘SG&A’’) expenses were 16.8%
of sales compared to 17.0% in 2005. The 2005 results included
$8  million relating to a product contamination matter; 2006
results reflect a benefit of $3  million insurance recovery
related to this contamination matter. The Company benefited from the
elimination of 129 positions, mainly in North America and Europe, which
resulted in savings in SG&A expense of $8  million. The 2006
results also include $31  million in incentive compensation
expense driven by improved sales and operating performance; 2005
results included $5  million of such expense.

2005 in
Comparison to 2004

Cost of goods sold, as a percentage of
sales, increased 150 basis points compared with 2004, mainly due to
higher raw material costs which the Company was unable to fully recover
through increased selling prices; overall, the average cost of raw
materials purchased increased 5% – 6% in


comparison to the prior year. Cost of sales
include $3  million attributable to a vendor-supplied raw
material contamination issue, primarily testing costs and the write-off
of affected materials. Cost of goods sold was also impacted by lower
expense absorption attributable to the facility closure in Dijon and
the cost of transfer of related production to other manufacturing
locations; production at Dijon ceased in March  2005.

Research and Development (‘‘R&D’’)
expenses increased to 9.0% of sales, consistent with the
Company’s stated intention to expand its research
initiatives.

Selling, General and Administrative
(‘‘SG&A’’) expenses, as a percentage of
sales, increased to 17.0% from 16.8%. In 2005, SG&A
expenses include $8  million related to the cost of customer
damages attributable to the raw material contamination issue. The
Company continues to seek full indemnification from its supplier, the
supplier’s insurers and, to the extent necessary, its own
insurers, but no related insurance receivable was recorded in the 2005
results. These costs were partially offset by lower accruals under the
Company’s various incentive plans; the 2005 results include
$5  million of such expense compared to $23  million in
2004.

In 2005, cost of goods sold and SG&A include $2
million and $4  million, respectively, relating to the
implementation of SAP; these costs relate to training and data
conversion and are charged to operating expenses as incurred.
Implementation of SAP was essentially complete at December
31,  2005.

Interest Expense

Interest expense
totaled $26  million, $24  million and $24  million
in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The average interest rate was
3.3%, 3.3% and 3.2% in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Additional details are contained in Note 9.

Other
(Income) Expense, Net

Other (income) expense, net was
$10  million income in 2006, $3  million income in 2005 and
$5  million expense in 2004. In 2006, income resulted from gains
on asset sales of $18  million, partially offset by higher
exchange losses and other non-operating expenses. In 2005, income
resulted primarily from exchange gains and higher levels of interest
income earned on higher cash balances. Exchange (losses) or gains were
($7) million, $3  million and ($3) million in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. The exchange losses in 2006 and 2004 were mainly
the result of the Company having U.S. dollar positions in Europe and
Latin America which resulted in exchange losses upon the weakening of
the U.S. dollar in comparison to the Euro and other
currencies.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate
for 2006, 2005 and 2004 was 27.7%, 21.6% and
30.2%, respectively. The effective tax rate fluctuates as a
result of earnings in the countries in which the Company operates. The
2005 rate was significantly reduced due to a tax benefit associated
with the American Jobs Creation Act
(‘‘AJCA’’) which provided for a one-time
tax deduction of 85% of dividends received on eligible
repatriated foreign earnings. Tax expense in 2005 reflects a benefit of
$25  million relating to the repatriation of $242  million
of dividends under AJCA; excluding this benefit, the effective tax rate
for 2005 would have been 31.6%.

Acquisitions and
Divestitures

In 2004, the Company sold its European fruit
preparations business which manufactured processed fruit and other
natural product preparations used in a variety of food products. Sales
of fruit preparations in 2004 were $59  million and operating
profit was $6  million. Proceeds from the sale were $40
million, including assumption of certain liabilities; cash proceeds
were used to reduce borrowings.

At December  31,
2006 and 2005, goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated
amortization, totaled $746  million and $773  million,
respectively. The Company completed its annual


assessments in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
concluding that it has no impairment of goodwill or other intangible
assets. Additional details are contained in Note 5.

Restructuring and Other Charges

With respect to the
restructuring and other charges, (i) separation costs for employees
relate primarily to severance, outplacement and other benefit costs;
(ii) asset write-down charges relate to establishment of the new
carrying value for assets held for sale or disposal; and (iii) other
costs include lease termination costs and other reorganization expenses
incurred to effect either employee separation or location closure.

In 2004, the Company disposed of its European fruit preparations
business, closed its Canadian manufacturing facility and committed to
the closure of its manufacturing facility in Dijon, France; the Dijon
facility closed in 2005.

In 2005, the Company undertook to
eliminate 300 positions in manufacturing, selling, research and
administration functions, principally in its European and North
American regions. The majority of affected positions involved employee
separation while the balance related to open positions that will not be
filled. The Company anticipated recording pre-tax restructuring charges
of $25  million to $30  million relating primarily to
employee separation expenses; $23  million was recognized in 2005
and $3  million was recorded in 2006. This plan is essentially
complete. Annualized savings from these actions are approximately $16 -
$18  million.

As a result of the actions described above,
restructuring charges and positions eliminated (including those not
replaced in the 2005 program) by region in each of the three years in
the period ended December  31,  2006 were as follows
(dollars in
millions):

Movements
in accruals in each of the three years in the period ended
December  31,  2006 were (in millions):

The
2004 asset-related charges exclude gains of $16  million arising
on the sale of the fruit businesses and the Canadian facility; such
gains were considered in determining Restructuring and other charges of
$32  million reported. The 2006 asset-related credit resulted
from a gain on disposition of the Dijon facility. The employee-related
liabilities are expected to be utilized by 2008 as obligations are
satisfied; asset-related charges are expected to be utilized in 2007 on
final decommissioning and disposal of affected assets.


Equity Compensation Plans

The
Company has various equity plans under which the Company’s
officers, senior management, directors and other key employees may be
granted the opportunity to acquire the Company’s common stock or
other forms of equity-based awards. The equity compensation plans are
more fully described in Note 12.

Prior to 2006, the Company
applied the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees (‘‘APB 25’’) under which no
compensation expense for stock options was recognized in net earnings,
and provided the pro-forma disclosures required by Financial Accounting
Standards Board (‘‘FASB’’) Statement No.
123, Share Based Compensation (‘‘FAS
123’’).

Effective January  1,  2006,
the Company adopted the provisions of FASB Statement No. 123(R)
Share-Based Payment (‘‘FAS 123(R)’’) which
superceded FAS 123. The Company elected the modified prospective
method, which requires cost measurement of stock-based awards at fair
value on the grant date and recognition of expense over the expected
vesting term. Under this method, 2006 expense includes the portion
vesting in the year for (1) all share-based payments granted prior to,
but not vested, as of January  1,  2006, based on the grant
date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of
FAS 123, and (2) all share-based payments granted subsequent to
January  1,  2006, based on the grant date fair value
estimated in accordance with the provisions of FAS  123(R). The
Company will recognize the cost of all stock options on a straight-line
attribution basis over their respective vesting periods, net of
estimated forfeitures. Compensation cost and the related tax benefit
for unvested stock option awards issued prior to adoption of FAS 123(R)
totaled $3  million and $1  million for the year ended
December  31,  2006. Results for prior periods have not
been restated.

Financial Condition

Cash, cash
equivalents and short-term investments totaled $115  million at
December  31,  2006 compared to $273  million and
$33  million at December  31,  2005 and 2004,
respectively. Working capital totaled $633  million at year-end
2006 compared to ($11) million and $562  million at
December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively. The 2005
working capital balance resulted from the classification of certain
debt as current due to its maturity in May  2006; such debt was
refinanced during 2006.

The financial condition of the Company
continues to be of high quality, as evidenced by substantial cash flow
from operations and ready access to capital markets at competitive
rates. Operating cash flow provides the primary source of funds for
operating and capital needs as well as dividends paid to shareholders,
and share repurchase activities. The Company currently anticipates cash
flows from operations and credit facilities in place are sufficient to
fund the Company’s anticipated capital spending, dividends and
other expected requirements for the next 12 – 18 months.

Operating cash flow in 2006 was $263  million compared to
$177  million and $296  million in 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Operating cash flow increased in 2006 as a result of
improved sales and operating results; net earnings adjusted for
non-cash items (primarily depreciation, amortization, and equity-based
compensation) was the primary source of operating cash flows.
Improvements in inventory and current payables were sufficient to
offset an increase in receivables; the increases in receivables and
payables supported the business growth achieved in the year.

Operating cash flow in 2005 declined compared to 2004 primarily as a
result of the decline in both sales and operating results. The impact
of the lower operating results was increased by unfavorable changes in
both receivables and payables and a non-cash adjustment to deferred
income taxes related to the AJCA tax benefit.

Net investing
activities in 2006 utilized $31  million compared to $91
million and $31  million in 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Investing cash outflows fluctuated, in part, due to the level of
capital expenditures which totaled $58  million in 2006 compared
to $93  million in 2005 and $71  million in 2004.
Fluctuations in spending between years is subject to the timing and
stage of completion of


capital projects. Spending in 2005 was
higher, primarily as a result of significant projects involving a new
chemical plant in China and a creative center in India; there were no
major individual projects in either 2006 or 2004. Gross additions to
property, plant and equipment are expected to approximate $70
million in 2007.

In both 2006 and 2004, the Company realized
significant cash proceeds from the sale of assets. The 2006 proceeds
totaling $27  million, related principally to the sale of both
land and buildings; to the extent such assets had been written down in
connection with previous restructuring activities, any gain or loss on
disposition was accounted for as part of the restructuring activities.
The 2004 proceeds of $39  million resulted primarily from the
disposition of the European Fruit Business. All sales were to third
party investors and the Company retained no ownership interest in the
disposed assets.

Compliance with existing governmental
requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment
has not materially affected the Company’s operations, earnings or
competitive position. In 2006, the Company spent $4  million on
capital projects and $16  million in operating expenses and
governmental charges for the purpose of complying with such
regulations. Expenditures for these purposes will continue for the
foreseeable future. In addition, the Company is party to a number of
proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act or similar state statutes. It is
expected that the impact of any judgments in or voluntary settlements
of such proceedings will not be material to the Company’s
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

The
dividend paid per share in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $.74, $.72 and $.67,
respectively. In January, April and July  2006, the Company paid
a quarterly cash dividend of $.185 per share to shareholders. In
October  2006, the Company announced a 14% increase in its
quarterly dividend rate to $.21 per share effective with the dividend
payable in January  2007. The Company paid dividends totaling
$67  million, $68  million and $63  million in 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively. The payment of dividends is determined by
the Board in its discretion based on various factors, and there can be
no assurance that any level of dividends will be paid.

In 2004,
2005 and 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized share
repurchase programs of $100  million, $200  million and
$300  million, respectively. Under these programs, the Company
repurchased 6.9  million, 2.6  million and 1.8
million shares in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively; spending on share
repurchases in 2006, 2005 and 2004 totaled $271  million,
$98  million and $67  million, respectively, at an average
cost per share of $39.33, $38.01 and $36.89, respectively. At
December  31,  2006, the Company had $206  million
remaining under the October  2006 plan, representing
approximately 4.2  million shares based on a stock price of
$49.00 per share. Repurchased shares are available for use in
connection with the Company’s employee benefit plans and for
other general corporate purposes.

The cumulative translation
adjustment component of Accumulated other comprehensive income
(‘‘AOCI’’) was ($32) million at
December  31,  2006, compared to ($47) million at
December  31,  2005. The change results principally from
the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, the Japanese Yen and
the Australian dollar during 2006. The pension and postemployment
liability adjustment component of Accumulated other comprehensive
income was ($163) million at December  31,  2006; the
Minimum pension liability adjustment was ($100) million at
December  31,  2005; pensions are discussed in more detail
in Note 14. The accumulated loss on derivatives qualifying as hedges
was $2  million at December  31,  2006 compared to
$3  million at December  31,  2005.

The
Company maintains a level of short-term and long-term debt after
evaluating a number of factors, including cash flow from operations,
anticipated capital expenditures, dividends and anticipated share
repurchase activities, as well as the overall cost of capital. At
December  31,  2006, total debt was $807  million,
compared to $951  million and $685  million at
December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively. Total debt at
December  31,  2005 increased in connection with the
Company’s plan to repatriate dividends under the AJCA
provisions, and in anticipation of refinancing $500  million in
Notes, which were scheduled to mature in May  2006; a portion of
these Notes were refinanced by the issuance of $375  million of
Senior Unsecured Notes in July  2006, with the remaining
$125  million retired using available cash on hand. Additional
details on debt are included in Note 9.


The Company supplements short-term
liquidity with access to capital markets, mainly through the issuance
of commercial paper, and bank credit facilities. In 2005, the Company
and certain subsidiaries entered into a revolving credit agreement (the
‘‘Facility’’) with certain banks. The
Facility provides for a five-year US $350  million
(‘‘Tranche A’’) and Euro 400  million
(‘‘Tranche B’’) multi-currency revolving
credit facility. Tranche A is available for commercial paper backstop
and general corporate purposes; Tranche B is available to European
subsidiaries for general corporate purposes. Borrowings bear interest
at an annual rate of LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offer Rate) (or in
relation to any Euro-denominated loans, EURIBOR, European Inter Bank
Offer Rate) plus a margin, currently 20 basis points, linked to the
Company’s credit rating. The Company pays a commitment fee on
the aggregate unused commitments and a utilization fee on amounts
outstanding under the Facility; such fees are not material. As
permitted by the Facility in 2006, the termination dates were extended
by one year until November  23,  2011. The Company may
request a second extension for one additional year. The Facility
contains various affirmative and negative covenants, including
requiring the Company to maintain, at the end of each fiscal quarter, a
ratio of net debt for borrowed money to EBITDA (Earnings Before
Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization) in respect of the
previous 12-month period of not more than 3.25 to 1. The Company has
complied with this covenant at all times.

In the event of
default, the lenders may terminate the Facility and declare any
principal amount then outstanding and all accrued interest, fees and
other amounts immediately due and payable. Defaults under the Agreement
which could result in the acceleration by the lenders of the
obligations of the Company Parties include a change of control of the
Company (as defined in the Facility) and certain acquisitions made in
contemplation of a merger where as a direct result of the acquisition,
the public debt rating of the Company quoted by Moody’s or
S&P (including any change in terms of its outlook) is a lower
rating than its public debt rating immediately prior to such
acquisition. Additional details regarding the Facility are in Note
9.

In addition to the Facility, the Company and various
subsidiaries had unused lines of credit totaling $701  million at
December  31,  2006 compared to $641  million at
December  31,  2005.

The Company’s
Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s
(‘‘S&P’’) short-term credit rating are
P2 and A2, respectively; Moody’s and S&P’s long-term
ratings are A3 and BBB+, respectively, with a neutral outlook.

At
December  31,  2006, the Company has contractual payment
obligations as specified in the following table (in millions):

(1)

See
Note 9 for a further discussion of the Company’s various
borrowing
facilities.

(2)

Operating
leases include facility and other lease commitments executed in the
normal course of the business. Additional details concerning the United
States facilities are contained in Note 8 and further details
concerning worldwide aggregate operating leases are contained in Note
17.

(3)

Purchase obligations
and capital project commitments not recorded on the Company’s
consolidated balance sheet.

(4)

See Note 14 for a further
discussion of the Company’s retirement plans. Anticipated
funding obligations are based on current actuarial assumptions. Funding
requirements reported in the above table do not extend beyond 2016 as
the Company has not quantified any funding obligations past this
point.


Market Risk

The Company is
exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest
rates and commodity price fluctuations. The Company evaluates and
manages volatility relating to these exposures on a global basis to
take advantage, where applicable, of netting opportunities that may
exist. Identified net exposures are managed employing a number of
techniques including, but not limited to, borrowings in local
currencies and the use of certain derivative instruments.

The
Company operates on a global basis and is exposed to currency
fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of products in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The major foreign currencies
involve the markets in the European Union, Mexico, Brazil, China,
Indonesia, Australia and Japan, although all regions are subject to
foreign currency fluctuations. The Company actively monitors its
foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which it operates,
and employs a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange
rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. The
Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts with the
objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with
foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated
purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. These contracts,
the counterparties to which are major international financial
institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a
second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding six
months. The notional amount and maturity dates of such contracts match
those of the underlying transactions. The gain or loss on the hedging
instrument is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction
being hedged is recorded in earnings. The associated asset or liability
on the open hedge instrument is recorded in Current Assets or Current
Liabilities, as applicable.

The Company has executed a 10-year
Yen – U.S. dollar currency swap related to the monthly sale and
purchase of products between the U.S. and Japan. The annual notional
value of this swap is $5  million. Gains and losses related to
this swap are recorded currently, and the mark-to-market adjustment
related to the value of the swap is reflected as a component of
AOCI.

The Company entered into a $300  million Cross
Currency Interest Rate Swap transaction to hedge a portion of its
consolidated Euro net investment. The derivative was structured as a
swap of floating USD LIBOR to floating EURIBOR, with both floating
interest rates reset and paid semi-annually, ensuring that the terms of
the swap match identically. Because the derivative is structured as a
floating to floating swap, the only value, other than that derived from
changes in the foreign exchange (FX) spot rate, are interest rate
accruals which are reset semi-annually. Thus, these accruals are netted
and booked in current earnings. Mark-to-market changes due to
differences in the underlying FX rate are recorded in AOCI and provide
an offset to the cumulative translation adjustment of the underlying
Euro assets being hedged, which are also being valued based on changes
in the FX spot rate. Effectiveness is assessed quarterly. At maturity,
or if the swap is terminated early, any gain or loss will not be
recorded to earnings, but will be recorded to AOCI until the Euro net
investment is divested.

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of
Estimates

Preparation of financial statements in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
(‘‘GAAP’’) requires estimates and
assumptions that affect reported amounts and accompanying disclosures.
These estimates are based on management’s best judgment of
current events and actions that the Company may undertake in the
future. Actual results may ultimately differ materially from estimates,
although management does not believe such changes will materially
affect the financial statements in any individual year.

Those
material areas requiring the greatest degree of management judgment or
deemed most critical to the Company’s financial reporting
involve:

The periodic assessment of potential
impairment of intangible assets acquired in business
combinations.

Intangible assets are evaluated for
impairment annually. In assessing its intangible assets, management
uses the most current actual and forecasted operating data available,
current market based assumptions and independent valuation experts. A
two step approach is employed.


The first step involves estimating the value
of reporting units based on the present value of estimated future cash
flows. The second step, if necessary, is to measure the value of the
impairment loss, if any. Management’s most subjective
assumptions relate to the estimated/projected sales and operating
growth values employed in the forecast.

The
analysis and evaluation of income taxes.

The Company
accounts for taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (‘‘FAS
109’’). Under FAS 109, deferred tax assets and
liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between
financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, based on
tax laws as currently enacted. The provision for income taxes is based
on statutory income tax rates and planning opportunities available in
the various tax jurisdictions where the Company operates. Significant
judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and tax
positions. The Company may be challenged upon review by the applicable
taxing authority and positions taken by the Company may not be
sustained. The Company regularly updates these accruals in light of
changing facts and circumstances.

In June  2006,
the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FAS 109 (‘‘FIN
48’’). The interpretation contains a two step approach to
recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in
accordance with FAS 109. The first step is to evaluate the tax
positions for recognition by determining if the weight of available
evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be
sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or
litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax
benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of
being realized upon ultimate resolution. In implementing FIN 48, the
Company will need to evaluate individual tax benefits using these
evaluation methods and will need to make judgments on how to
disaggregate its various tax positions and then to analyze the tax
positions. The Company is required to adopt FIN 48 at the beginning of
2007. The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of this
interpretation, but does not believe its adoption will have a material
impact on the Company’s results or financial
condition.

The evaluation of potential legal and
environmental liabilities, where changing circumstances, rules and
regulations require regular reassessment of related practices and
anticipated costs.

The Company is subject to certain
legal claims regarding products and other matters, as well as
environmental-related matters. Significant management judgment is
involved in determining when it is probable that a liability has been
incurred and the extent to which it can be reasonably estimated.

The Company regularly assesses potential liabilities with
respect to all legal claims based on the most recent available
information, in consultation with outside counsel handling the defense
of such matters, and other relevant independent experts. To the extent
a liability is deemed to have been incurred and can be reasonably
estimated, the Company recognizes a corresponding accrual; if the
reasonably estimated liability is a range, the Company recognizes that
amount considered most likely, or in the absence of such a
determination, the minimum reasonably expected liability. To the extent
such claims are covered by insurance, the Company separately evaluates
the likelihood of recovery and accounts for any related insurance
receivable. Management judgments involve a determination as to whether
a liability has been incurred, the reasonably estimated amount of that
liability, and any potential insurance recovery.

The
Company regularly evaluates its potential environmental exposure in
terms of total estimated cost and with respect to the viability of
other potentially responsible parties
(‘‘PRP’s’’) associated with its
exposure. Recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation
efforts progress and additional information becomes available. Critical
management assumptions relate to expected total costs to remediate and
the financial viability of PRP’s to share such
costs.

Determination of the various assumptions
employed in the valuation of pension and retiree health care expense
and associated obligations.

Amounts recognized in the
Consolidated Financial Statements related to pension and other
postretirement benefits are determined from actuarial valuations.
Inherent in such valuations are assumptions including expected return
on plan assets,


discount rates at which the liabilities
could be settled, rates of increase in future compensation levels,
mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. These assumptions are
updated annually. In accordance with GAAP, actual results that differ
from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods
and, therefore, affect expense recognized and obligations recorded in
future periods.

With respect to the U.S. plans, the
expected return on plan assets was determined based on an asset
allocation model using the current benchmark allocation, real rates of
return by asset class and an anticipated inflation rate. The benchmark
asset allocation was: 10 – 20% in cash and fixed income
investments expected to yield 1.0%; 10 – 20%
employed in corporate and government bonds expected to yield
2.1%; and 65 – 75% in equity investments with a
long-term expected yield of 8.5 – 9.3%. The inflation rate
assumed in the model was 2.5%. The plan has achieved a compound
annual rate of return of 9.6% over the previous 20 years. The
discount rate used for determining future pension obligations for each
individual plan is based on a review of long-term bonds that receive a
high rating from a recognized rating agency. The discount rate was
based on the internal rate of return for a portfolio of Moody’s
Aa3-rated high quality bonds with maturities that are consistent with
the projected future benefit payment obligations of the plan. The rate
of compensation increase for all plans and the medical cost trend rate
for the applicable U.S. plans are based on plan experience.

With respect to the non-U.S. plans, the expected return on
plan assets was determined based on an asset allocation model for each
plan using an allocation designed to meet the needs of the plan or, in
certain cases, specific government requirements, rates of return by
asset class and an anticipated inflation rate. The discount rate used
for determining future pension obligations for each plan is based on a
review of long-term bonds that receive a high rating from a recognized
rating agency with durations comparable to that of the plan liabilities
and other criteria appropriate for the local market. The rate of
compensation increase is based on plan experience and expected
increases.

Management establishes the assumptions
concerning discount rates and actuarial assumptions based on current
market conditions, including asset returns and other factors applicable
under the circumstances. Changes in pension and other post-employment
benefits, and associated expenses, may occur in the future due to
changes in these assumptions. The impact a .25% decrease in the
discount rate or a 1% change in the medical cost trend rate
would have on the Company’s pension and other post-employment
benefit expense, as applicable, is discussed in Note
14.

The ongoing assessment of the valuation of
inventory, given the large number of natural ingredients employed, the
quality of which may be diminished over time.

The
Company maintains between 40% and 55% of its inventory as
raw materials, providing the greatest degree of flexibility in
manufacture and use. Materials are evaluated based on shelf life, known
uses and anticipated demand based on forecasted customer order activity
and changes in product/sales mix. Company policy provides for an
ongoing assessment of inventory with adjustments recorded when an item
is deemed to be slow moving or obsolete.

Determination of various assumptions employed in the
calculation of Equity Compensation expense.

Amounts
recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements related to equity
compensation are determined based on the number of awards and type of
award as well as specific assumptions regarding expected life, stock
price volatility, risk free interest rate and the dividend yield. These
assumptions are employed in the Binomial lattice-pricing model used to
value certain awards.

The Company changed its valuation
model used for estimating the fair value of options/SSAR’s
granted on January  1,  2006, from a Black-Scholes
option-pricing model to a Binomial lattice-pricing model. The Binomial
model can accommodate a broader array of inputs, such as stock price
volatility and interest rates. The Black-Scholes model does not allow
for incorporation of changes in such variables. The Company utilizes
historical information to estimate expected term and forfeitures within
the valuation model. The expected term of an option is based on
historical exercise behavior, vesting terms and a contractual life of
primarily ten years for options


and seven years for SSAR’s. The
risk-free interest rate for periods within the expected term of the
award is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time
of grant. Expected volatility is based on an average of implied and
historical volatility of the price of the Company’s common stock
over the calculated expected term. The Company anticipates paying cash
dividends in the future and therefore uses an expected dividend yield
in the valuation model; the cash dividend in effect at the time of
grant was employed in this calculation. These assumptions are evaluated
at each grant date. If factors change and the Company employs different
assumptions for estimating share-based compensation expense in future
periods or if the Company decides to use a different valuation model,
the future periods may differ significantly from what the Company has
recorded in the current period and could materially affect operating
income, net income and net income per share.

Management believes
that it has considered relevant circumstances that the Company may be
currently subject to, and the financial statements accurately reflect
management’s best estimate of the results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows of the Company for the years
presented. Management has discussed the decision process and selection
of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors.

New Accounting Standards

In
December  2004, the FASB issued FAS 123(R), which is effective
for the first reporting period beginning after December
15,  2005. FAS 123(R) supersedes APB 25 and establishes standards
for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its
equity instruments for goods or services. Under FAS 123(R), the Company
must determine the fair value model to be used for valuing share-based
payments, the amortization method for compensation cost and the
transition method to be used at date of adoption. The Company is
employing the Binomial lattice-pricing model, and recognizes the cost
of all employee stock options on a straight-line basis over their
respective vesting periods, net of estimated forfeitures. The Company
adopted the new standard in 2006; adoption reduced 2006 annual earnings
by $2  million based on unvested options outstanding. This impact
does not contemplate awards issued, cancelled or forfeited in 2006 or
the tax impact related to the initial adoption of this standard.
Further details are included in Note 12.

In June  2006, the
FASB issued FIN 48 which clarifies the application of FAS 109 by
prescribing the minimum threshold a tax position must meet before being
recognized in the financial statements. Under FIN 48, the financial
statement effect of a tax position is initially recognized when it is
more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination. A
tax position that meets the ‘‘more likely than
not’’ recognition threshold is initially and subsequently
measured as the largest amount of benefit, determined on a cumulative
probability basis, that is more likely than not to be realized upon
ultimate settlement with the taxing authority. FIN 48 is effective for
years beginning after December  15,  2006. The Company is
currently assessing the potential impact of this interpretation but
does not believe its adoption will have a material impact on the
Company’s results or financial condition.

In
September  2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes
and Error Corrections (‘‘FAS 154’’). This
Statement replaces Accounting Principles Board No. 20, Accounting
Changes

,

and FASB Statement No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes
in Interim Financial Statements

,

and changes the requirements
for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting
principle. FAS 154 is effective for years beginning after
December  15,  2006.

In September  2006, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (‘‘FAS
157’’). This standard defines fair value, establishes a
framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures regarding
fair value measurements. FAS 157 is effective for years beginning after
December  15,  2007. The Company is currently evaluating
the potential impact of this standard.

In September  2006,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined
Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R (‘‘FAS
158’’). This Statement requires an employer to recognize
the over- or under-funded status of a defined benefit postretirement
plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position


and to recognize changes in that funded
status in the year in which the changes occur through AOCI. FAS 158
also requires an employer to measure the funded status of a plan at its
year-end. FAS 158 is effective for years ending after December
15,  2006 and the Company has implemented this standard using the
prospective application approach. Further details are included in Note
14.

In September  2006, the Securities and Exchange
Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering
the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements
in Current Year Financial Statements (‘‘SAB
108’’) effective at the end of the Company’s 2006
operating year. The adoption of SAB 108 had no impact on its
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Non-GAAP Financial
Measures

To supplement the Company’s financial results
presented in accordance with GAAP, the Company uses, and has included
in this report, certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP
financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a
substitute for or superior to financial measures calculated in
accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures as disclosed by
the Company may also be calculated differently from similar measures
disclosed by other companies. To ease the use and understanding of such
supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, the Company includes the most
directly comparable GAAP financial measure and the reconciliation
amount.

The Company uses a non-GAAP financial measure which
excludes the results of its European fruit business disposed of in 2005
for preparing financial targets, internal budgets and operating plans,
evaluating actual performance against targets and budget, assessing
historical performance over reporting periods, and assessing operating
performance against other companies. A material limitation is that 2005
results under GAAP in fact reflect the fruit business results.
Management compensates for such limitation by clarifying that this
measure is only one operating metric used for internal financial
analysis and planning purposes and should not be considered in
isolation, and by providing the corresponding GAAP financial
measure.

The Company uses the non-GAAP financial measure which
excludes the effect of the AJCA in evaluating actual performance.
Management believes that given the unique nature of this item,
including this information, without the impact of repatriation, in the
prior year period is more representative of the Company’s
performance and may assist investors in evaluating the Company’s
period to period financial results and tax rate in a manner consistent
with how management evaluates this.

The Company also discloses,
and management internally monitors, the sales performance of
international operations on a basis that eliminates the positive or
negative effects that result from translating foreign currency sales
into U.S. dollars. Management uses this constant dollar measure because
it believes that it enhances the assessment of the sales performance of
its international operations and the comparability between reporting
periods.

Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995

Statements in this Annual Report,
which are not historical facts or information, are
‘‘forward-looking statements’’ within the
meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such
forward-looking statements which may be identified by such words as
‘‘expect,’’
‘‘believe,’’
‘‘anticipate,’’
‘‘outlook,’’
‘‘may,’’ and similar terms or variations
thereof. Such forward-looking statements, involve significant risks and
uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from any future
results or conditions expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. Actual results may differ materially from
management’s expectations. Such factors include, among others,
the following: general economic and business conditions in the
Company’s markets, including economic, population health and
political uncertainties; weather; geopolitical and region specific
uncertainties; interest rates; the price quality and availability of
raw materials; the Company’s ability to implement its business
strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings,
profitability and growth targets; the impact of currency fluctuation or
devaluation in the Company’s principal foreign markets and the
success of the Company’s hedging and risk management strategies;
the impact of possible


pension funding obligations and increased
pension expense on the Company’s cash flow and results of
operations; the effect of legal and regulatory proceedings, as well as
restrictions imposed on the Company, its operations or its
representatives by foreign governments; and the fact that the outcome
of litigation is highly uncertain and unpredictable and there can be no
assurance that the triers of fact or law, at either the trial level or
at any appellate level, will accept the factual assertions, factual
defenses or legal positions of the Company or its factual or expert
witnesses in any such litigation or other proceedings. The Company
intends its forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of
this report and does not undertake to update or revise any such
statements as more information becomes available or to reflect changes
in expectations, assumptions or results.

ITEM
7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
RISK.

The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts
with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility
associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with
anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations.
These contracts, the counterparties to which are major international
financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency
for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not
exceeding six months.

The Company also uses derivative financial
instruments to hedge foreign currency exposures resulting from
forecasted purchase commitments. The Company enters into these hedge
contracts generally for periods ranging from one to three months. The
gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in earnings at the
same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. The
associated asset or liability related to the open hedge instrument is
recorded in Current Assets or Current Liabilities, as applicable. The
Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for
trading or speculative purposes.

The Company has executed a
10-year Yen – U.S. dollar currency swap related to the monthly
sale and purchase of products between the U.S. and Japan. The annual
notional value of this swap is $5  million. Gains and losses
related to this swap are recorded currently, and the mark-to-market
adjustment related to the value of the swap is reflected as a component
of AOCI.

In 2002, the Company entered into certain interest rate
swap agreements effectively converting the fixed rate on its long-term
Japanese Yen borrowings to a variable short-term rate based on the
Japanese Yen LIBOR rate plus an interest markup. These swaps are
designated as qualified fair value hedges. The net gains have been
deferred, are classified as a separate component of debt and are being
amortized over the remaining term of the debt. To the extent the
Company has not received cash or otherwise amended or settled any swap
agreements, any applicable mark-to-market adjustment relating to that
swap is included as a separate component of debt. The Company had no
ineffective interest rate swaps at December  31,  2006.

In January  2006, the Company entered into a $300
million Cross Currency Interest Rate Swap transaction to hedge a
portion of its consolidated Euro net investment. The derivative was
structured as a swap of floating USD LIBOR to floating EURIBOR, with
both floating interest rates reset and paid semi-annually, ensuring
that the terms of the swap match identically. Because the derivative is
structured as a floating to floating swap, the only value, other than
that derived from changes in the foreign exchange (FX) spot rate, are
interest rate accruals which are reset semi-annually. These accruals
are netted and booked in current earnings. Mark-to-market changes due
to differences in the underlying FX rate are recorded in AOCI and
provide an offset to the cumulative translation adjustment of the
underlying Euro assets being hedged, which are also being valued based
on changes in the FX spot rate. Effectiveness is assessed quarterly. At
maturity, or if the swap is terminated early, any gain or loss will not
be recorded to earnings, but will be recorded to AOCI until the Euro
net investment is divested.

The Company uses foreign
currency-rate and interest rate-sensitive instruments to hedge a
certain portion of its existing and forecasted transactions. The
Company expects that any change in value for the hedging instrument
would be offset by a change in value related to the underlying
transaction.

The Company’s hedges of its foreign currency
exposure are not designed to and therefore cannot entirely eliminate
the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on the Company’s
consolidated


financial position, results of operations
and cash flows. The Company’s foreign currency swaps were
analyzed at year-end to determine their sensitivity to exchange rate
changes. Based on the outstanding balance of the Company’s net
investment hedge at December  31,  2006, a hypothetical
10% change (either an increase or a decrease) in rates
denominating this hedge, would not represent a material potential
change in earnings. Based on the outstanding balance of the other
financial instruments at December  31,  2006, a
hypothetical 10% change (either an increase or a decrease) in FX
rates prevailing at that date, sustained for up to a year, would not
represent a material potential change in fair value, earnings or cash
flows.

At December  31,  2006, the Company had
$807  million of debt outstanding including $375  million
of Senior Notes, $304  million in bank and other borrowings and
$128  million in long-term Japanese Yen denominated debt.
Borrowings and interest rate swaps were analyzed at year-end to
determine their sensitivity to interest rate changes. Based on the
outstanding balance of all these financial instruments at
December  31,  2006, a hypothetical 10% change
(either an increase or a decrease) in interest rates prevailing at that
date, sustained for one year, would not represent a material potential
change in fair value, earnings or cash flows.

ITEM
8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

See index
to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 39. See Item 6 for
supplemental quarterly data on page 16.

ITEM
9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM
9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures and Changes in Internal Control over Financial
Reporting.

The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, with the assistance of other members of
management, have evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered
by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on such evaluation, the
Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and
procedures are effective as of the end of the period covered by this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The Company’s Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that there have not
been any changes in the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting during the Company’s fourth quarter that
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting.

Management of the Company is responsible
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December  31,  2006. In making this assessment, management
used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(‘‘COSO’’) in

Internal Control –
Integrated Framework

.


Based on this assessment, management
determined that, as of December  31,  2006, the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting was
effective.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Company’s
independent registered public accounting firm, has audited
management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December  31,  2006 as stated in their report which is
included herein.

Certifications to NYSE and SEC.

The
Company’s Chief Executive Officer certification was timely filed
with the NYSE as required by NYSE Rule 303A(12). The Company’s
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have each filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission the required certifications
regarding the quality of the Company’s public disclosures.

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION.

None.


PART III

ITEM
10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
GOVERANCE.

The information relating to directors and nominees of
the Company is set forth under the caption ‘‘Election of
Directors’’ in the Company’s 2007 Proxy Statement
and is incorporated by reference herein. The information under the
caption ‘‘Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance’’ that appears in the Company’s 2007
Proxy Statement is also incorporated by reference herein. See Part I,
Item 1 of this Form 10-K for information relating to the
Company’s Executive Officers.

The Company has adopted a
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the ‘‘Code of
Ethics’’) that applies to the Company’s chief
executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting
officer, and to all other Company directors, officers and employees.
The Code of Ethics is available at the Investor Relations section on
the Company’s website

www.iff.com

. A waiver from any
provision of the Code of Ethics in favor of a director or Executive
Officer may only be granted by the Board and any such waiver will be
publicly disclosed. The Company will disclose substantive amendments
to, and any waivers from, the Code of Ethics provided to the
Company’s chief executive officer, principal financial officer or
principal accounting officer, as well as any other executive officer or
director, on the Company’s Internet website:

www.iff.com

.

The information regarding the
Company’s Audit Committee and its designated audit committee
financial expert is set forth under the captions ‘‘Board
and Committee Memberships’’ and ‘‘Audit
Committee’’ in the Company’s 2007 Proxy Statement
and such information is incorporated by reference herein.

The
information concerning procedures by which shareholders may recommend
director nominees is set forth under ‘‘Director
Candidates’’ in the Company’s 2007 Proxy Statement
and such information is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM
11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The information relating to
executive compensation is set forth under the captions
‘‘Executive Compensation’’ and
‘‘Directors’ Compensation’’, in the
Company’s 2007 Proxy Statement and such information is
incorporated by reference herein; except that the information under the
caption ‘‘Compensation Committee Report’’
shall be deemed ‘‘furnished’’ with this
report and shall not be deemed ‘‘filed’’
with this report, or incorporated by reference into any filing under
the Securities Act of 1933 except only as may be expressly set forth in
any such filing by specific reference.

ITEM
12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

The information
relating to security ownership of management and certain beneficial
owners is set forth under the caption ‘‘Beneficial
Ownership Table’’ in the Company’s 2007 Proxy
Statement and such information is incorporated by reference herein. The
information relating to the Company’s equity plans is set forth
under the caption ‘‘Equity Compensation
Plans’’ in the Company’s 2007 Proxy Statement and
such information is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM
13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS,
AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.

The information regarding certain
relationships and related party transactions is set forth under the
caption ‘‘Independence of Directors and Committee Members
and Related Person Matters’’ in the Company’s 2007
Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated by reference
herein.


ITEM 14.

INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM FEES AND SERVICES.

The
information regarding the independent registered public accounting firm
(‘‘independent accountant’’) fees and
services and the Company’s pre-approval policies and procedures
for audit and non-audit services provided by the Company’s
independent accountant are set forth under the captions
‘‘Principal Accountant Fees and Services’’
and ‘‘Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies and
Procedures’’ in the Company’s 2007 Proxy Statement
and such information is incorporated by reference
herein.


PART
IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES.

(a)(1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.    The following
consolidated financial statements, related notes and independent
registered public accounting firm’s report are included in this
report on Form  10-K:

(a)(2)
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE.    The following schedule is included
in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

Schedule
II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves for the three
years ended

December  31,

S-1

All
other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is shown in the financial statements or notes
thereto.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc.:

We
have completed integrated audits of International Flavors &
Fragrances Inc.’s consolidated financial statements and of its
internal control over financial reporting as of December
31,  2006, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our
audits, are presented below.

Consolidated financial
statements

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements listed in the index appearing under item 15(a)(1) present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. and its subsidiaries at
December  31,  2006 and 2005, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December  31,  2006 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule
listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth within when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These
financial statements and financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial
statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 12 to the
consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in
which it accounts for share-based compensation in 2006. As discussed in
Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed
the manner in which it accounts for defined benefit pension and other
postretirement plans effective December  31,
2006.

Internal control over financial
reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s
assessment, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the Company
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December  31,  2006 based on criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(‘‘COSO’’), is fairly stated, in all
material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December
31,  2006, based on criteria established in

Internal Control
– Integrated Framework

issued by the COSO. The
Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on management’s assessment
and on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of
internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An
audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining
an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal


control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii)
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New
York

February  22,  2007


International Flavors & Fragrances
Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
INCOME

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements


International Flavors & Fragrances
Inc.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE
SHEET

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements


International Flavors & Fragrances
Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements


International Flavors & Fragrances
Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS’
EQUITY

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements


INTERNATIONAL
FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

NOTE 1.

NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Nature of
Operations

The Company is a leading creator and manufacturer
of flavor and fragrance compounds used to impart or improve flavor or
fragrance in a wide variety of consumer products. Products are sold
principally to manufacturers of perfumes and cosmetics, hair and other
personal care products, soaps and detergents, cleaning products, dairy,
meat and other processed foods, beverages, snacks and savory foods,
confectionery, sweet and baked goods, and pharmaceutical and oral care
products.

Principles of Consolidation

The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company
and all subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have
been eliminated. To the extent a subsidiary is not wholly-owned, any
minority interest is included in Other liabilities; applicable (income)
expense attributable to the minority interest is included in Other
(income) expense, net.

Use of Estimates

Preparation
of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States requires estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts and accompanying
disclosures. These estimates are based on management’s best
knowledge of current events and actions the Company may undertake in
the future. Actual results may ultimately differ from estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue is recognized when the
earnings process is complete, generally when (i) products are shipped
to the customer in accordance with the terms of sale, (ii) title and
risk of loss have been transferred and (iii) collectibility is
reasonably assured. Accruals are made for sales returns and other
allowances based on historical experience.

Foreign Currency
Translation

The assets and liabilities of non-U.S.
subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange
rates. Income and expense items are translated at average exchange
rates during the year. Cumulative translation adjustments are shown as
a separate component of Shareholders’ Equity.

Research
and Development

All research and development costs are
expensed as incurred.

Inventories

Inventories are
stated at the lower of cost (on a weighted average basis) or
market.

Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents include
highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at
date of purchase.

Property, Plant and
Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis, principally over
the following estimated useful lives: buildings and improvements, 10 to
40 years; machinery and equipment, 3 to 10 years; information
technology hardware and software, 3 to 7 years; and leasehold
improvements which are included in buildings and improvements, the
estimated life of the improvements or the remaining term of the lease,
whichever is shorter.

Long-lived assets are reviewed for
impairment when events or changes in business conditions indicate that
their full carrying value may not be recovered. An estimate of
undiscounted future cash flows produced by an asset or group of assets
is compared to the carrying value to determine whether impairment
exists. If assets are determined to be impaired, the loss is measured
based on an estimate of fair value using various valuation techniques,
including a discounted estimate of future cash flows.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Identifiable
intangible assets include patents, trademarks and other intellectual
property valued at acquisition primarily through independent
appraisals, and are amortized on a straight-line basis over 7 to 20
years. For purposes of assessing impairment, fair values for goodwill
and indefinite-lived intangibles are determined based on discounted
cash flows, market multiples or appraised values, as appropriate.


Income Taxes

Deferred income
taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amount of
assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and
such amounts recognized for tax purposes, based on tax laws as
currently enacted. Additional taxes which would result from
distributions by subsidiary companies to the parent are provided to the
extent anticipated. No provision is made for additional taxes on
undistributed earnings that are intended to be indefinitely invested in
such subsidiaries. No income tax benefit is attributed to the currency
translation component of Accumulated other comprehensive income
(‘‘AOCI’’).

Retirement
Benefits

Current service costs of retirement plans and
postretirement health care and life insurance benefits are accrued
currently. Prior service costs resulting from plan improvements are
amortized over periods ranging from 10 to 20 years.

Financial
Instruments

The Company enters into derivative instruments
with terms that match the underlying exposure being hedged. Derivative
instruments that qualify for hedge accounting treatment are designated
as cash flow hedges and are considered highly effective. The net gain
or loss from hedge ineffectiveness is not material. The changes in
value of the derivative are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive
income and recognized in earnings when the offsetting effect of the
hedged item is recognized in earnings. Derivative financial instruments
are also used to manage interest and foreign currency exposures. The
gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in earnings at the
same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. The
associated asset or liability related to the open hedge instrument is
recorded in Current Assets or Current Liabilities, as
applicable.

Risks and Uncertainties

The diversity of
the Company’s products, customers and geographic operations
significantly reduces the risk that a severe impact will occur in the
near term as a result of changes in its customer base, competition,
sources of supply or markets.

Software Costs

Direct
internal and external development costs associated with internal-use
software are capitalized. All preliminary evaluation and
post-implementation costs are expensed.

Shipping and Handling
Costs

Net sales include shipping and handling charges billed
to customers. Cost of goods sold includes all shipping and handling
costs.

Net Income Per Share

Net income per share is
based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding. A
reconciliation of shares used in the computations of basic and diluted
net income per share is as follows:

Net
income used in the computation is unaffected by the assumed issuance of
stock under the Company’s stock plans.

Options to purchase
309,000, 1,905,000, and 561,000 shares were outstanding at
December  31,  2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, but were
excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share because
the effect was anti-dilutive.

Stock Plans

The
Company has stock-based compensation plans which are more fully
described in Note 12. Prior to 2006, the Company applied the
recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,
(‘‘APB 25’’) under which no compensation
expense for employee stock options was recognized, as all options
granted had an exercise price not less than the market value of the
common stock on the date of the grant.

Effective January
1,  2006, the Company adopted the provisions of FAS No. 123(R),
Share-Based Payment (‘‘FAS 123(R)’’) using
the modified prospective method, which requires measurement of


compensation cost of all stock-based awards
at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of expense over the
expected vesting term, net of expected forfeitures. Under this method,
2006 expense includes the portion vesting in the year for (1) all
share-based payments granted prior to, but not vested, as of
January  1,  2006, based on the grant date fair value
estimated in accordance with the original provisions of FAS 123, and
(2) all share-based payments granted subsequent to January
1,  2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in
accordance with the provisions of FAS  123(R). The cost of
employee stock options is recognized on a straight-line basis over
their respective vesting periods, net of estimated forfeitures. Results
for prior periods have not been restated.

The following table
illustrates the effect on net income and net income per share if the
Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of FAS 123,
for the years ended December  31,  2005 and 2004.

These
pro-forma amounts may not be representative of future results because
the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to expense over
the vesting period, and additional options may be granted in future
years.

New Accounting Standards

In June  2006,
the FASB issued FIN 48 which clarifies the application of FAS 109 by
prescribing the minimum threshold a tax position must meet before being
recognized in the financial statements. Under FIN 48, the financial
statement effect of a tax position is initially recognized when it is
more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination. A
tax position that meets the ‘‘more likely than
not’’ recognition threshold is initially and subsequently
measured as the largest amount of benefit, determined on a cumulative
probability basis, that is more likely than not to be realized upon
ultimate settlement with the taxing authority. FIN 48 is effective for
years beginning after December  15, 2006. The Company is
currently assessing the potential impact of this interpretation but
does not believe its adoption will have a material impact on the
Company’s results or financial condition.

In
September  2006, the FASB issued FAS 154. This Statement replaces
Accounting Principles Board No. 20, Accounting Changes

,

and FASB
Statement No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial
Statements

,

and changes the requirements for the accounting for
and reporting of a change in accounting principle. FAS 154 is effective
for years beginning after December  15,  2006.

In
September  2006, the FASB issued FAS 157. This Statement defines
and establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands
disclosures regarding fair value measurements. FAS  157 is
effective for years beginning after December  15,  2007.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of this
standard.

In September  2006, the FASB issued FAS 158. This
Statement requires an employer to recognize the over- or under-funded
status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or
liability in its


statement of financial position and to
recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the
changes occur through AOCI. FAS 158 also requires an employer to
measure the funded status of a plan at its year-end. FAS 158 is
effective for years ending after December  15,  2006 and
the Company has implemented this standard using the prospective
application approach. Further details are included in Note 14.

In September  2006, the SEC issued SAB 108 effective at the
end of the Company’s 2006 operating year. The adoption of SAB
108 had no impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Reclassifications

Certain
reclassifications have been made to the prior years’ financial
statements to conform to the 2006 presentation.

NOTE
2.

RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES

With
respect to restructuring and other charges, (i) separation costs for
the employees relate primarily to severance, outplacement and other
benefit costs; (ii) asset write-down charges relate to establishment of
the new carrying value for assets held for sale or disposal; and (iii)
other costs include lease termination costs and other reorganization
expenses incurred to effect either employee separation or location
closure.

In 2004, the Company disposed of its European fruit
preparations business, closed its Canadian manufacturing facility and
committed to the closure of its manufacturing facility in Dijon,
France; the Dijon facility closed in 2005. As a result, the Company
recognized pre-tax charges of $32  million in 2004, of which
$26  million related to employee terminations and $6
million to location closures and asset write-downs, and other related
reorganization actions.

In 2005, the Company undertook to
eliminate 300 positions in manufacturing, selling, research and
administration functions, principally in its European and North
American operating regions. The majority of affected positions involved
employee separation while the balance related to open positions that
will not be filled. In connection with this plan, the Company
recognized $23  million in 2005 and $3  million in 2006;
this plan is essentially complete. Movements in related accruals
were:

The
2004 asset-related charges exclude gains of $16  million arising
on the sale of the fruit business and Canadian facility; such gains
were considered in determining Restructuring and other charges of
$32  million reported in 2004. The 2006 asset-related credit
resulted from a gain realized on disposition of the Dijon facility. The
employee-related liabilities are expected to be utilized by 2008 as
obligations are satisfied; asset-related charges will be utilized in
2007 on final decommissioning and disposal of affected assets.


NOTE
3.

INVENTORIES

NOTE
4.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET


NOTE 5.

GOODWILL AND
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET

Goodwill by operating segment for
2006 and 2005 is as
follows:

Trademark
and other intangible assets consist of the following
amounts:

Amortization
expense for 2006 was $15  million; estimated annual amortization
is $13  million in 2007, $6  million in 2008 to 2011, and
$43  million thereafter. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company
performed its impairment assessments and concluded there was no
impairment. In 2006, Other intangible assets were reduced by $12
million in connection with the adoption of FAS 158; see Note  14
for further discussion.

NOTE 6.

OTHER
ASSETS

Other Assets consist of the following
amounts:

NOTE
7.

OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

Other current
liabilities consist of the following
amounts:


NOTE 8.

SALE AND
LEASEBACK TRANSACTIONS

In connection with the disposition of
certain real estate in years prior to 2004, the Company entered into
long-term operating leases covering the facilities disposed of. The
leases are classified as operating leases in accordance with FAS 13,
‘‘Accounting for Leases’’, and the gains
realized have been deferred and are being credited to income over the
initial lease term. Such deferred gains totaled $68  million and
$71  million at December  31,  2006 and 2005,
respectively, of which $65  million and $68  million,
respectively, are reflected in the accompanying balance sheet under the
caption Deferred gains, with the remainder included as a component of
Other current liabilities.

NOTE
9.

BORROWINGS

Debt consists of the following
at December  31:

Commercial
paper generally has terms of 30 days or less; there was no outstanding
commercial paper at December  31,  2006 or 2005.

In
2005, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a
revolving credit agreement (the
‘‘Facility’’) with certain banks. The
Facility provides a five-year US $350  million
(‘‘Tranche A’’) and a Euro 400
million (‘‘Tranche B’’) multi-currency
revolving credit facility. Tranche A is available for commercial paper
backstop and general corporate purposes; Tranche B is available to
European subsidiaries for general corporate purposes. Borrowings bear
interest at an annual rate of LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offer Rate) (or
in relation to any Euro-denominated loans, EURIBOR, European Inter Bank
Offer Rate) plus a margin, currently 20 basis points, linked to the
credit rating of the Company. The Company pays a commitment fee on the
aggregate unused commitments and a utilization fee on amounts
outstanding under the Facility; such fees are not material. As
permitted by the Facility, in 2006, the termination dates were extended
by one year until November  23,  2011. The Company may
request a second extension for one additional year. The Facility
contains various affirmative and negative covenants, including
requiring the Company to maintain, at the end of each fiscal quarter, a
ratio of net debt for borrowed money to EBITDA (Earnings Before
Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization) in respect of the
previous 12-month period of not more than 3.25 to 1. The Company has
complied with this covenant at all times. The Company’s
multi-year revolving credit facility enables it to classify the debt as
long-term. At December  31,  2006 approximately $288
million of bank borrowings on the Euro revolver was classified as
long-term debt as the Company expects it to remain outstanding for the
next twelve months.

Short-term bank loans primarily in the form
of overdrafts, in addition to the Facility, were outstanding in several
countries and averaged $16  million in 2006, compared with
$33  million in 2005. The highest levels were $31  million
in 2006, $315  million in 2005, and $34  million in 2004,
respectively. The 2006 weighted average interest rate of these bank
loans, based on balances outstanding at the end of each month, was
3.9% and the average rate on loans outstanding at
December  31,  2006 was 4.7%.


These rates compare with 3.4% and
2.8%, respectively, in 2005 and 3.2% and 4.7%,
respectively, in 2004. At December  31,  2006 and 2005, the
Company and its subsidiaries had unused lines of credit totaling
$701  million and $641  million, respectively, in addition
to the Facility.

The 6.45% Notes included as current debt
at December  31,  2005 matured on May  15,
2006. On July  12,  2006, the Company issued $375
million of Senior Unsecured Notes (‘‘Senior
Notes’’): (i)  $50  million in aggregate
principal amount of 5.89% Series A Senior Notes due July
12,  2009, (ii)  $100  million in aggregate principal
amount of 5.96% Series B Notes due July  12,  2011,
(iii)  $100  million in aggregate principal amount of
6.05% Series C Notes due July  12,  2013 and
(iv)  $125  million in aggregate principal amount of
6.14% Series D Notes due July  12,
2016.

Maturities on debt outstanding at December
31,  2006 are: 2007, $16  million; 2008, $112
million; 2009, $50  million, and 2010 and thereafter, $629
million. The estimated fair value of long-term debt at December
31,  2006 and 2005, based on interest rates currently available
with similar terms and maturities, approximated the recorded value.

The Company had an interest rate swap that has been monetized and
will be amortized over the life of the debt and is reported as Deferred
realized gains on interest rate swaps.

NOTE
10.

INCOME TAXES

Earnings before income taxes
consisted of the following:

The
income tax provision consisted of the
following:


A reconciliation between the U.S. Federal
statutory income tax rate to the effective tax rate follows:

The
Company’s 2006 effective tax rate reflects the tax benefits from
having significant operations outside the U.S. that are taxed at lower
rates than the U.S. rate of 35 percent. The 2006 effective tax rate was
favorably impacted by the reversal of a previously established tax
accrual of $4 million that was no longer required based on rulings
obtained from applicable jurisdictions.

The components of the
deferred tax assets and liabilities included on the balance sheet are
as
follows:

Net
operating loss (‘‘NOL’’) carryforwards were
$12  million and $7  million at December  31, 2006
and 2005, respectively. If unused, $2  million will expire
between 2007 and 2026; the remaining $10  million may be carried
forward indefinitely. Tax credits were $24  million and
$10  million at December  31,  2006 and
December  31,  2005, respectively. If unused, $23
million will expire between 2007 and 2026; the remaining $1
million may be carried forward indefinitely.

Of the $36
million deferred tax asset for credit and net operating loss
carryforwards at December  31,  2006, the Company considers
it unlikely that a portion of the tax benefit related to various
non-U.S. and state deferred taxes will be realized; a $1  million
and $8  million valuation allowance has been established against
these respective deferred tax assets.

Tax benefits relating to
stock options exercised credited to Shareholders’ equity totaled
$11  million and $3  million for 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes
associated with the repatriation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries
were not provided on a cumulative total of $359  million of
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Company intends to
reinvest these earnings indefinitely in its foreign subsidiaries. Any
additional U.S. taxes payable on the remaining foreign earnings, if
remitted, would be substantially offset by credits for foreign taxes
already paid.

The Company has tax audits in process in various
tax jurisdictions, and has open tax years with various significant
taxing jurisdictions that range primarily from 2001 to 2006. Based on
currently available information, the Company does not believe the
ultimate outcome of these tax audits and


other tax positions related to open tax
years, when finalized, will have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

NOTE 11.

SHAREHOLDERS’
EQUITY

On March  9,  2000, the Company adopted a
shareholder protection rights agreement (the ‘‘Rights
Agreement’’) and declared a dividend of one right on each
share of common stock outstanding on March  24,  2000 or
issued thereafter.

Under the Rights Agreement, as amended, until
a person or group acquires 15% or more of the Company’s
common stock or commences a tender offer that would result in such
person’s or group’s owning 15% or more, the rights
are evidenced by the common stock certificates, automatically trade
with the common stock and are not exercisable.

Thereafter, if
the Company is involved in a merger or sells more than 50% of
its assets or earning power, each right entitles its holder to purchase
a certain number of shares for a specified exercise price. Also, under
certain circumstances, the Company’s Board of Directors has the
option to redeem or exchange one share of common stock for each right.
Finally, in the event a new Board of Directors is elected in a
successful proxy contest, (i) the rights may not be redeemed and no
business combination with the Company can be effected for 180 days
thereafter unless certain procedures are followed to ensure (A) that
steps are taken to maximize shareholder value, or (B) that any decision
to redeem the rights, if challenged, would meet an
‘‘entire fairness’’ test; and (ii) the
Rights Agreement may not be amended during such 180-day period. To
establish ‘‘entire fairness’’ in connection
with a redemption, the new Board must be able to demonstrate that all
aspects of the redemption decision were fair, including the redemption
procedure and the financial terms of the redemption. The Rights
Agreement expires in March  2010.

Dividends paid per share
were $0.74, $0.72 and $0.67 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The AOCI balance includes Cumulative translation adjustments of
($32) million and ($47) million, Accumulated losses on derivatives
qualifying as hedges of $2  million and $3  million, and
Minimum pension liability of $0 and ($100) million, at December
31,  2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2006, the Company adopted
FAS 158 under which the Company recorded an aggregate Pension and
Postemployment liability of ($163) million and the minimum pension
liability was eliminated. See Note 14 for further discussion.

NOTE 12.

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS

The
Company has various plans under which the Company’s officers,
senior management, other key employees and directors may be granted
options to purchase the Company’s common stock or other forms of
equity-based awards. Under the Company’s 2000 Stock Award and
Incentive Plan (‘‘2000 SAIP’’), the
issuance of 9  million shares was authorized by the Board of
Directors; 2  million shares available under a previous plan were
incorporated into the 2000 SAIP, resulting in a total of 11
million shares being available.

Prior to 2004, stock options were
the primary form of equity compensation. Beginning in 2004, the Company
granted Restricted Stock Units
(‘‘RSU’s’’) to eligible employees.
RSU’s generally vest 100% at the end of three years with
no performance criteria; RSU’s granted to all officers and
senior management in 2004 and 2005 contained a performance restriction,
since achieved, and now vest at the end of their three year term. The
fair value of the RSU’s is equal to the market price of the
Company’s stock at date of grant and is amortized to expense
ratably over the vesting period. For a small group of employees, in
certain international locations, the Company continues to grant stock
options.

In 2006, the Board of Directors approved a Long Term
Equity Choice program (the ‘‘Program’’) for
the Company’s senior management under the 2000 SAIP. Under the
Program, eligible employees can choose from among three equity
alternatives and will be granted such equity awards up to certain
dollar values depending on the participant’s grade level. A
participant may choose among (1)  Purchased Restricted Stock
(‘‘PRS’’), (2) Stock Settled Appreciation
Rights (‘‘SSAR’s’’) or (3)
RSU’s. Employees not eligible under the Program continue to
receive RSU’s or, as noted above, options.


PRS provides for the participant to
purchase restricted shares of the Company stock at 50% of the
fair market value on the grant date. Holders of PRS have, in most
instances, all of the rights of stockholders, except that they may not
sell, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber such shares; RSU’s
provide no such rights. PRS vest on the third anniversary of the grant
date, are subject to employment and other specified conditions, and pay
dividends if and when paid by the Company. In 2006, the Company issued
217,905 shares of PRS for an aggregate purchase price of $4
million.

Stock options generally become exercisable on the first
anniversary of the grant date and have a maximum term of ten years.
SSAR’s become exercisable on the third anniversary of the grant
date and have a maximum term of seven years.

Restricted stock
and RSU activity was as
follows:

The
fair value of RSU’s which vested during 2006 was $1.6
million. At December  31,  2006, there was $5
million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock
option and SSAR awards granted; such cost is expected to be recognized
over a weighted average period of 2 years. At December
31,  2006, there was $17  million of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to non-vested restricted stock and RSU awards
granted; such cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average
period of 1.5 years.

Stock option and SSAR activity was as
follows:


The weighted average exercise
prices of stock options and SSAR’s exercisable at
December  31,  2006, 2005 and 2004 were $32.75, $32.21 and
$32.85, respectively. The following table summarizes information
concerning currently outstanding and exercisable options and
SSAR’s:

The
weighted average grant date fair value of stock options and
SSAR’s granted during 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $7.66, $10.57 and
$9.42, respectively. The intrinsic value of stock options exercised
during 2006, 2005 and 2004 totaled $35  million, $7
million and $27  million, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic
values of stock options and SSAR’s outstanding and exercisable
at December  31,  2006 were $57  million and
$47  million, respectively.

Stock option and SSAR activity
for non-vested awards was as
follows:

The
fair value of outstanding vested stock options for the years ended
December  31,  2006, 2005 and 2004 was $26  million,
$49  million and $41  million, respectively.

Prior to
2006, the Company applied the recognition and measurement principles of
APB 25 and provided the pro-forma disclosures required by FAS 123.
Under APB 25, no compensation expense for employee or director stock
options was reflected in net earnings.

The Company changed its
valuation model used for estimating the fair value of
options/SSAR’s granted on January  1,  2006, from a
Black-Scholes option-pricing model to a Binomial lattice-pricing model.
The Binomial model can accommodate a broader array of inputs, such as
stock price volatility and interest rates. The Black-Scholes model does
not allow for incorporation of changes in such variables. The Company
utilizes historical information to estimate expected term and
forfeitures within the valuation model. The expected term of an option
is based on historical employee exercise behavior, vesting terms and a
contractual life of primarily ten years for options and seven years for
SSAR’s. The risk-free interest rate for periods within the
expected term of the award is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in
effect at the time of grant. Expected volatility is based on an average
of implied and historical volatility of the price of the
Company’s common stock over the calculated expected term. The
Company anticipates paying cash dividends in the future and therefore
uses an expected dividend yield in the valuation model; the cash
dividend in effect at the time of grant was employed in this
calculation. Principal assumptions used in applying the Binomial model
in 2006 and Black-Scholes model in 2005 and 2004 were:

Pre-tax
expense related to all forms of equity compensation for the years ended
December  31,  2006, 2005 and 2004
follows:


Pre-tax
compensation expense for the year ended December  31,  2006
includes a cumulative effect gain of $1  million from the
adoption of FAS 123(R), which was recorded in operating expenses. The
Company recorded a deferred tax benefit related to equity compensation
expense of $6  million, $3  million and $3  million
for the years ended December  31,  2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Prior to the adoption of FAS 123(R), the Company
presented the tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of
stock options as cash flows from operating activities in the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. FAS 123(R) requires the cash
flows from the excess tax benefits the Company realizes on stock based
compensation to be presented as cash flows from financing activities.
The excess tax benefits on exercise of stock options and vested
restricted stock presented as cash flows from financing activities in
2006 were $5  million. Cash received from the exercise of stock
options was $111  million, $23  million and $76
million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and is reflected in cash
flows from financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows.


NOTE
13.    SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company manages its operations
by major geographical region: North America, Europe, India, Latin
America and Asia Pacific. Flavors and fragrances have similar economic
and operational characteristics including research and development, the
nature of the creative and production processes, the type of customers,
and the methods by which products are distributed. Accounting policies
used for segment reporting are identical to those described in Note
1.

The Company evaluates the performance of its regions based on
segment profit which is income before taxes on income, excluding
interest expense, other income and expense and the effects of
restructuring and other charges and accounting changes. Global Expenses
represents corporate and headquarters-related expenses which include
legal, finance, human resource and other administrative expenses not
allocable to individual regions. Transfers between regions are
accounted for at prices that approximate arm’s-length prices.
Unallocated assets are principally cash, short-term investments and
other corporate and headquarters-related
assets.


Sales
of fragrances were $1,200  million, $1,135  million and
$1,123  million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sales of
flavors were $895  million, $858  million and $911
million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sales in the United
States, based on the final country of destination of the
Company’s products, were $583  million, $537  million
and $565  million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. No other
country of destination exceeded 7% of consolidated sales. No
customer accounted for 10% or more of sales. Total long-lived
assets consists of net property, plant and equipment and net intangible
assets and amounted to $1,241  million, $1,272  million and
$1,291  million at December  31,  2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively; of the respective totals, $867  million,
$946  million and $966  million were located in the United
States. No other individual country had long-lived assets that exceeded
10% of total long-lived assets.

Net foreign exchange
transactions resulted in a loss of $7  million in 2006, a gain of
$3  million in 2005 and a loss of $3  million in 2004, and
are included in Other (income) expense, net.

NOTE
14.    RETIREMENT BENEFITS

The Company and most of its
subsidiaries have pension and/or other retirement benefit plans.
Pension benefits are generally based on years of service and on
compensation during the final years of employment. Plan assets consist
primarily of equity securities and corporate and government fixed
income securities. Substantially all pension benefit costs are funded
as accrued; such funding is limited, where applicable, to amounts
deductible for income tax purposes. Certain other retirement benefits
are provided by balance sheet accruals. Contributions to defined
contribution plans are mainly determined as a percentage of salary.

In addition to pension benefits, certain health care and life
insurance benefits are provided to qualifying United States employees
upon retirement. Such coverage is provided through insurance plans with
premiums based on benefits paid. The Company does not generally provide
health care or life insurance coverage for retired employees of
subsidiaries outside the United States; such benefits are generally
provided by government-sponsored plans, and the cost of such programs
is not significant to the Company.

The plan assets and benefit
obligations of the Company’s pension plans are measured at
December  31 of each year.

In 2006, the Company adopted FAS
158 which requires balance sheet recognition of the funded status of
each defined benefit pension plan, retiree health care and other
postretirement and postemployment benefit plans. An overfunded plan is
recognized as an asset; an underfunded plan is recognized as a
liability. The initial impact of the standard, due to unrecognized
prior service costs or credits and net actuarial gains or losses as
well as subsequent changes in the funded status, is recognized as a
component of Accumulated other comprehensive income in
Shareholders’ Equity. Where applicable, additional minimum
pension liabilities (‘‘AML’’) and
related intangible assets previously recognized, were eliminated on
adoption of FAS 158.

At December  31,  2005, the
Company recorded in AOCI an AML of $147  million ($100
million, net of taxes), as required by FAS 87,
‘‘Employers’ Accounting for
Pensions’’. The AML is reflected in Retirement
liabilities and is prescribed when the Accumulated Benefit Obligation
(‘‘ABO’’) in the plan exceeds the fair value of
the underlying pension plan assets and accrued pension liabilities. The
adjustment relates to plans in the United States, the United Kingdom,
Germany, Ireland and Japan.


The incremental effect of applying FAS 158
on individual line items in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December
31, 2006 was as follows:

Pension
expense included the following
components:

The
following amounts are expected to be recognized in defined benefit
plans expense in the coming
year:

The
following weighted-average actuarial assumptions were used to determine
expense in the applicable
years:


Changes in pension benefit obligations
were:

The
changes in pension plan assets
were:

The
funded status of the pension plans at December  31
was:

The
amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet after the adoption
of FAS 158 consist
of:


The amounts recognized in AOCI at
December  31,  2006 consist
of:

The
ABO at December  31
was:

The
following information relates to pension plans with an ABO in excess of
plan
assets:

The
following weighted average assumptions were used to determine the
Company’s pension benefit obligations under the plans at
December
31:

The
Company’s pension plan asset allocation for U.S. and non-U.S.
plans at December  31,  2006 and 2005 is:

With
respect to the U.S. plans, the expected return on plan assets was
determined based on an asset allocation model using the current
benchmark allocation, real rates of return by asset class and an
anticipated inflation rate. The benchmark asset allocation was
approximately 10 – 20% employed in cash and fixed income
investments expected to yield 1.0%; 10 – 20%
employed in corporate and government bonds expected to yield
2.1%; and 65 – 75% in equity investments with a
long-term expected yield of 8.5 – 9.3%. The inflation rate
assumed in the model was 2.5%. The plan has employed a similar
asset allocation strategy for the previous 20 years and has achieved a
compound annual rate of return of 9.6%. In 2006, the percentage
of assets held in equities increased primarily as a result of the
performance of the equity investments. There has been no change in the
Company’s long term asset allocation. Equity investments include
the Company’s common stock valued at $26  million
(8.0% of total plan assets) and $17  million (6.0%
of total plan assets) at December  31,  2006 and 2005,
respectively. The discount rate used for determining future pension
obligations for each individual plan is based on a review of long-term
bonds that receive a high rating from a recognized rating agency. The
discount rate was based on the internal rate of return for a


portfolio of Moody’s Aa3-rated high
quality bonds with maturities that are consistent with the projected
future benefit payment obligations of the plan. The rate of
compensation increase is based on plan experience.

With respect
to the non-U.S. plans, the expected return on plan assets was
determined based on an asset allocation model for each plan using an
allocation designed to meet the needs of the plan or, in certain cases,
specific government requirements, rates of return by asset class and an
anticipated inflation rate. The discount rate used for determining
future pension obligations for each plan is based on a review of
long-term bonds that receive a high rating from a recognized rating
agency with durations comparable to that of the plan liabilities and
other criteria appropriate for the local market. The rate of
compensation increase is based on plan experience and expected
increases.

The expense recognized for postretirement benefits
other than pensions included the following components:

The
following amounts are expected to be recognized in postretirement
expense in the coming
year:

The changes in
postretirement benefit obligations
were:

The
funded status of the postretirement plan at December  31
was:


The following weighted average assumptions
were used to determine the Company’s postretirement benefit
expense and liability at and for the years ended December
31:

Information
about the expected cash flows for the pension and postretirement
benefit plans are as
follows:

A
..25 % decrease in the discount rate on the pension and
postretirement benefit plans would have the following
effect:

A
..25 % decrease in the long term rate of return on plan assets
for both the U.S. and non-U.S. plans would increase expense in the
subsequent year by $1  million and $2  million,
respectively.

A 1% increase in the medical cost trend
rate would increase the Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation
(‘‘APBO’’), and the annual postretirement
expense, by $19  million and $2  million, respectively; a
1% decrease in the rate would decrease the obligation and
expense by $15  million and $1  million, respectively.

In December  2003, President Bush signed into law the Medicare
Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. In
accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position
No. 106-2 (‘‘FSP FAS 106-2’’),
‘‘Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003,’’ the Company accounted for the effects of the Act
and recognized the impact of the Medicare prescription drug subsidy
retrospectively from January  1,  2004 beginning
July  1,  2004. The subsidy reduced the annual 2006, 2005
and 2004 postretirement expense by $2  million.

Expected
benefit payments shown above are net of the Medicare Part D subsidy.
The following table shows the expected benefit payments prior to
reflecting the subsidy, the expected subsidy and the expected benefit
payments reflecting the subsidy.


NOTE
15.    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Company enters into foreign
currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to
cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and
payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used
in operations. These contracts, the counterparties to which are major
international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of
one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have
maturities not exceeding six months. The notional amount and maturity
dates of such contracts match those of the underlying transactions. The
gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in earnings at the
same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. The
associated asset or liability related to the open hedge instrument is
recorded in Current Assets or Current Liabilities, as
applicable.

The Company employs various interest rate swaps and
debt issuances with the objective of managing and optimizing its
interest rate exposure. The Company has executed a 10-year Yen –
U.S. dollar currency swap related to the monthly sale and purchase of
products between the U.S. and Japan. The annual notional value of this
swap is approximately $5  million. Gains and losses related to
this swap are recorded currently, and the mark-to-market adjustment
related to the value of the swap is reflected as a component of
AOCI.

In 2002, the Company entered into certain interest rate
swap agreements effectively converting the fixed rate on its long-term
Japanese Yen borrowings to a variable short-term rate based on the
Japanese Yen LIBOR rate plus an interest markup. These swaps are
designated as qualified fair value hedges. During 2003 and 2005, the
Company amended the swaps and the counterparty paid the Company
$3  million and $1  million, respectively, including
accrued interest, respectively. Such gains have been deferred, are
classified as a separate component of debt and amortized over the
remaining term of the debt. To the extent the Company has not received
cash or otherwise amended or settled any swap agreements, any
applicable mark-to-market adjustment relating to that swap is included
as a separate component of debt. The Company had no ineffective
interest rate swaps at December  31,  2006.

In
January  2006, the Company entered into a $300  million
Cross Currency Interest Rate Swap transaction to hedge a portion of its
consolidated Euro net investment. The derivative was structured as a
swap of floating USD LIBOR to floating EURIBOR, with both floating
interest rates reset and paid semi-annually, ensuring that the terms of
the swap match identically. Because the derivative is structured as a
floating to floating swap, the only value, other than that derived from
changes in the foreign exchange (FX) spot rate, are interest rate
accruals which are reset semi-annually. Thus, these accruals are netted
and booked in current earnings. Mark-to-market changes due to
differences in the underlying FX rate are recorded in AOCI and provide
an offset to the cumulative translation adjustment of the underlying
Euro assets being hedged, which are also being valued based on changes
in the FX spot rate. Effectiveness is assessed quarterly. At maturity,
or if the swap is terminated early, any gain or loss will not be
recorded to earnings, but will be recorded to AOCI until the Euro net
investment is divested.

NOTE 16.    CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT
RISK

The Company has no significant concentrations of risk in
financial instruments. Temporary investments are made in a
well-diversified portfolio of high-quality, liquid obligations of
government,


corporate and financial institutions. There
are also limited concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade
receivables because of the large number of customers spread across many
industries and geographic regions.

NOTE 17.    COMMITMENTS
AND CONTINGENCIES

Minimum rental commitments under
non-cancelable operating leases are $23  million in 2007,
$20  million in 2008, $19  million in 2009, $16
million in 2010, $16  million in 2011, and thereafter through
2030, the aggregate lease obligations are $209  million. The
corresponding rental expense amounted to $25  million, $21
million and $21  million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
None of the Company’s leases contain step rent provisions or
escalation clauses and they do not require capital improvement
funding.

The Company is party to a number of lawsuits and claims
related primarily to flavoring supplied by the Company to manufacturers
of butter flavor popcorn. At each balance sheet date, or more
frequently as conditions warrant, the Company reviews the status of
each pending claim, as well as its insurance coverage for such claims
with due consideration given to potentially applicable deductibles,
retentions and reservation of rights under its insurance policies, and
the advice of its outside legal counsel and a third party expert in
modeling insurance deductible amounts with respect to all these
matters. While the ultimate outcome of any litigation cannot be
predicted, management believes that adequate provision has been made
with respect to all known claims. Based on information presently
available and in light of the merits of its defenses and the
availability of insurance, the Company does not expect the outcome of
the above cases, singly or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of
operation or liquidity. There can be no assurance that future events
will not require the Company to increase the amount it has accrued for
any matter or accrue for a matter that has not been previously
accrued.

The Company recorded its expected liability with
respect to these claims in Other current liabilities and expected
recoveries from its insurance carrier group in Other Receivables. The
Company believes that realization of the insurance receivable is
probable due to the terms of the insurance policies, the financial
strength of the insurance carrier group and the payment experience to
date of the carrier group as it relates to these
claims.


(a)(3)

EXHIBITS




*

Management contract or
compensatory plan or
arrangement


Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES
INC.

(Registrant)

By

/s/ Douglas J.
Wetmore

Douglas
J. Wetmore

Senior Vice President
and

Chief Financial
Officer

Dated:   February  22,

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated:

Principal Executive
Officer:

/s/ Robert M.
Amen

Robert
M.  Amen

Chairman of the Board
and

Chief Executive Officer

Principal
Financial and Accounting Officer:

/s/ Douglas J.
Wetmore

Douglas
J. Wetmore

Senior Vice President
and

Chief Financial
Officer

Directors:

/s/ Robert M.
Amen

ROBERT
M.  AMEN

/s/ Margaret Hayes
Adame

MARGARET
HAYES ADAME

/s/ Gunter
Blobel

GUNTER
BLOBEL

/s/ J. Michael
Cook

J.
MICHAEL COOK

/s/ Peter A.
Georgescu

PETER
A. GEORGESCU

/s/ Alexandra A.
Herzan

ALEXANDRA
A. HERZAN

/s/ Henry W. Howell,
Jr.

HENRY
W. HOWELL, JR.

/s/ Arthur C.
Martinez

ARTHUR
C. MARTINEZ

/s/ Burton M.
Tansky

BURTON
M.  TANSKY


INTERNATIONAL
FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE II
— VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND
RESERVES

(DOLLARS IN
THOUSANDS)

S-1