
10-K




                                                                      No. 1-1183

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
                                  ANNUAL REPORT
     Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                   For the Fiscal Year Ended December 25, 1999

                                  PepsiCo, Inc.
                         Incorporated in North Carolina
                             700 Anderson Hill Road
                          Purchase, New York 10577-1444
                                 (914) 253-2000

                                   13-1584302
                      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
                            -------------------------
                 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
                     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:

                                                Name of Each Exchange
          Title of Each Class                    on Which Registered
          -------------------                    ---------------------
 Capital Stock, par value 1-2/3 cents          New York and Chicago Stock
             per share                               Exchanges

     Securities  registered  pursuant to Section 12(g)of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934: None

     Indicate by check mark  whether the  registrant:  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant  was required to file such  reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No ___

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

         The number of shares of PepsiCo  Capital Stock  outstanding as of March
10, 2000 was 1,443,515,702.  The aggregate market value of PepsiCo Capital Stock
held by nonaffiliates of PepsiCo as of March 10, 2000 was $44,309,988,968.



Documents of Which Portions            Parts of Form 10-K into Which  Portion of
Are Incorporated by Reference                   Documents Are Incorporated
- -------------------------------                 ---------------------------
Proxy Statement for PepsiCo's                             III
May 3, 2000 Annual Meeting of
       Shareholders







                                     PART I


Item 1.   Business

         PepsiCo,   Inc.   was   incorporated   in  Delaware  in  1919  and  was
reincorporated in North Carolina in 1986.  PepsiCo is engaged in the snack food,
soft drink and juice  businesses.  When used in this Report the terms "we", "us"
and "our" means PepsiCo and its divisions and subsidiaries.

         In 1998, our Board of Directors approved a plan for the separation from
PepsiCo  of  certain  wholly-owned  bottling  businesses  located  in the United
States,  Canada,  Spain,  Greece and Russia,  referred to as The Pepsi  Bottling
Group (PBG).  On April 6, 1999,  PBG completed the sale of 100 million shares of
its  common  stock at $23 per share  through  an  initial  public  offering.  We
retained a noncontrolling  ownership  interest of approximately  40%,  including
ownership  of  approximately  7% of the  equity  of  PBG's  principal  operating
subsidiary, Bottling Group, LLC.

         On May 20, 1999, we combined certain of our bottling  operations in the
midwestern United States and Central Europe with Whitman Corporation, a publicly
traded  corporation.   We  retained  a  noncontrolling   ownership  interest  of
approximately 38% in "new Whitman".  The remainder of the ownership  interest in
new Whitman is held by the public.

         On July 10, 1999, we formed a business venture with PepCom  Industries,
Inc., a Pepsi-Cola  franchisee,  combining bottling businesses in parts of North
Carolina and New York.  PepCom  contributed  bottling  operations in central and
eastern  North  Carolina  and in  Long  Island,  New  York  to the  venture.  We
contributed  our bottling  operations in  Winston-Salem  and  Wilmington,  North
Carolina in exchange for a noncontrolling interest of 35% in the venture.

         On  October  15,  1999,  we  formed  a  business  venture  with  Pohlad
Companies, a Pepsi-Cola franchisee, combining bottling businesses in Puerto Rico
and parts of the  southeastern  and midwestern  United States.  Pohlad Companies
contributed its interests in Dakota Beverage Company, Delta Beverage Group, Inc.
(Delta) and Pepsi-Cola  Puerto Rico Bottling  Company (PPR).  We contributed our
interests  in Delta and PPR as well as 2.2  million  shares of  PepsiCo  Capital
Stock. As a result, we have a noncontrolling ownership interest of approximately
24% in the venture's  principal  operating  subsidiary,  PepsiAmericas,  Inc., a
publicly traded corporation.


FRITO-LAY, INC.

         Our  Frito-Lay  domestic  snack food business is conducted by Frito-Lay
North America (FLNA).  Our international  snack food business is described below
under the  heading  Frito-Lay  International  (FLI).  Its  geographic  units are
Frito-Lay   Europe/Middle   East/Africa   and   Frito-Lay   Latin   America/Asia
Pacific/Australia.

         FLNA

         FLNA  manufactures,  markets,  sells and  distributes  a varied line of
salty and sweet snack foods  throughout the United States and Canada,  including
LAY'S and RUFFLES brand potato chips, DORITOS and TOSTITOS brand tortilla chips,
FRITOS brand corn chips,  CHEETOS brand cheese flavored snacks,  ROLD GOLD brand
pretzels,  SUNCHIPS  brand  multigrain  snacks,  WOW!  brand  low fat and no fat
versions of potato and  tortilla  chips,  a variety of branded  dips and salsas,
CRACKER JACK brand candy-coated popcorn and GRANDMA'S brand cookies.





         FLNA's  products are  transported  from  manufacturing  plants to major
distribution  centers,  principally  by  company-owned  trucks.  FLNA utilizes a
"store-door-delivery"  system,  whereby  its sales  force  delivers  the  snacks
directly to the store  shelf.  This system  permits  FLNA to work  closely  with
retail trade locations and to be responsive to their needs.  Frito-Lay  believes
this  form of  distribution  allows  it to  have a  marketing  advantage  and is
essential for the proper distribution of products with a short shelf life.

         Frito-Lay   also  develops  the  national   marketing,   promotion  and
advertising programs that support the Frito-Lay brands and brand image; oversees
the quality of the Frito-Lay products;  develops new products and packaging; and
leads and coordinates selling efforts.

         FLI

         FLI's products are available in 118 countries outside the United States
and Canada through company-owned facilities and affiliated companies. On most of
the  European  continent,  our snack food  business is conducted  through  Snack
Ventures  Europe,  a joint venture between  PepsiCo and General Mills,  Inc., in
which we own a 60% interest.  In ten Latin  American  countries,  our snack food
business is conducted  through  joint  ventures  between  PepsiCo and the parent
company of  Empresas  Polar SA of  Venezuela.  We have a 50%  interest  in these
ventures, except in one country in which we own a 70% interest.

         FLI sells a variety of snack food products which appeal to local tastes
including,  for  example,  WALKERS  brand  snack  foods in the  United  Kingdom,
SABRITAS  brand snack foods in Mexico,  Smith's  brand snack foods in Australia,
and GAMESA brand  cookies and ALEGRO brand sweet snacks in Mexico.  In addition,
many of our U. S. brands  have been  introduced  internationally  such as LAY'S,
RUFFLES,  DORITOS,  TOSTITOS,  FRITOS,  and CHEETOS  brand  salty  snack  foods.
Principal   international  markets  include  Australia,   Brazil,   Mexico,  the
Netherlands, South Africa, Spain and the United Kingdom.

         FLI develops the  marketing,  promotion and  advertising  programs that
support the local and Frito-Lay brands and develops new products and packaging.


Pepsi-Cola Company

         Our soft drink  business,  which  operates as  Pepsi-Cola  Company,  is
comprised of two business units:  Pepsi-Cola North America (PCNA) and Pepsi-Cola
International  (PCI).  As described  below,  these business  units  manufacture,
market and sell concentrates to be used in "Pepsi-Cola Beverages", which include
not only beverages  bearing the Pepsi-Cola or Pepsi  trademarks,  such as PEPSI,
Pepsi-Cola,  Diet Pepsi, Pepsi One and Pepsi Max, but also other brands owned by
PepsiCo and its subsidiaries including MOUNTAIN DEW, 7UP (outside the U.S.), ALL
SPORT, SLICE, MUG, AQUAFINA, and Mirinda.

         PCNA

         PCNA manufactures  concentrates to be used in Pepsi-Cola  Beverages for
sale to franchised bottlers in the United States and Canada. PCNA's bottlers are
licensed  to  manufacture,  market,  sell and  distribute  beverages  and syrups
bearing  the  Pepsi-Cola  Beverage  trademarks  in  approximately  440  licensed
territories in the United States and Canada. We have a minority interest in 8 of
these bottlers, comprising approximately 240 licensed territories.





         PCNA also develops the national  marketing,  promotion and  advertising
programs that support the Pepsi-Cola  Beverage brands and brand image;  oversees
the quality of the Pepsi-Cola Beverages; develops new products and packaging and
approves  packaging  suppliers;  and leads and  coordinates  selling efforts for
national fountain, supermarket and mass merchandising accounts.

         The Pepsi/Lipton  Tea Partnership,  a joint venture of PCNA and Lipton,
sells  tea  concentrate  to  Pepsi-Cola  bottlers,   and  develops  and  markets
ready-to-drink  tea products under the Lipton trademark,  including Lipton Brisk
and LIPTON'S ICED TEA.  PepsiCo's  partnership  with the  Starbucks  Corporation
develops  ready-to-drink  coffee  products,  which are sold under the  Starbucks
FRAPPUCCINO  trademark and are  distributed  by Pepsi-Cola  bottlers.  PCNA also
licenses the processing and distribution of AQUAFINA bottled water.

         PCI

         PCI  manufactures   Pepsi-Cola   Beverage   concentrates  for  sale  to
franchised bottlers outside of the United States and Canada.  PCI's bottlers are
licensed  to  manufacture,   market,   sell  and   distribute,   within  defined
territories, beverages and syrups bearing the Pepsi-Cola Beverage trademarks. We
have a minority  interest  in  approximately  40 of these  bottlers.  In certain
countries, PCI also owns and operates the bottling businesses which manufacture,
sell and  distribute  the  Pepsi-Cola  Beverage  products.  Pepsi-Cola  Beverage
products are sold in approximately 160 countries through PCI's company-owned and
franchised bottlers.  Principal international markets include Argentina, Brazil,
China, India,  Mexico, the Philippines,  Saudi Arabia,  Spain,  Thailand and the
United Kingdom.

         PCI,  with  its  bottlers,   develops  the  marketing,   promotion  and
advertising  programs that support the Pepsi-Cola Beverage brands;  oversees the
quality of the Pepsi-Cola Beverages; promotes technical support to its bottlers;
and develops new products and packages for the Pepsi-Cola Beverages.


TROPICANA PRODUCTS, INC.

         Tropicana  Products,  Inc.  (TPI)  manufactures,   markets,  sells  and
distributes  its products  under such  well-known  trademarks as TROPICANA  PURE
PREMIUM,  TROPICANA  SEASON'S  BEST and,  under  license from Dole Food Company,
Inc.,  DOLE. In the United  States,  TPI's  portfolio  also  includes  TROPICANA
TWISTER juice beverage  products and TROPICANA PURE TROPICS 100% juice products.
It also manufactures and sells FRUVITA chilled juices, LOOZA nectars and juices,
COPELLA  fruit juices and ALVALLE  soups and fruit  juices in Europe.  Principal
international markets include Belgium, Canada, France and the United Kingdom.

         TPI's   manufacturing   operations   in  Bradenton,   Florida   produce
approximately  85% of the worldwide  supply of TROPICANA PURE PREMIUM  products.
TPI operates 11 regional distribution centers that serve customers in the United
States and Canada.  Refrigerated  rail cars and trucks are used to transport the
product quickly and efficiently  from the Bradenton  manufacturing  plant to the
principal   distribution  centers.  A  high  priority  is  placed  on  inventory
management  techniques that ensure product quality and fresh taste.  Tropicana's
products  are  produced  and  packaged  in  approximately  28  plants  worldwide
(including  16  independent  co-packer  facilities)  and  are  available  in  52
countries.

         TPI also develops the national  marketing,  promotion  and  advertising
programs that support the Tropicana brands and brand image; oversees the quality
of  the  Tropicana  juices  and  juice  beverages;  develops  new  products  and
packaging;  and leads and  coordinates  selling  and  distribution  efforts  for
national supermarket, foodservice and mass merchandising accounts.





Competition

         All of our businesses  are highly  competitive.  Our snack foods,  soft
drinks and, juices compete in the United States and internationally  with widely
distributed  products of a number of major companies that have plants in many of
the areas we serve,  as well as with private label snack foods,  soft drinks and
juices and with the products of local and regional manufacturers. The main areas
of our competition are price, quality and variety of products,  customer service
and availability of distribution.

Employees

         As of December 25, 1999, we employed,  subject to seasonal  variations,
approximately  118,000  persons  worldwide,  of whom  approximately  52,000 were
employed within the United States.  We believe that relations with our employees
are generally good.

Raw Materials and Other Supplies

         The principal  materials we use in our snack food, soft drink and juice
businesses  are  corn  sweeteners,   sugar,  aspartame,   flavorings,   oranges,
grapefruit,  juice concentrates,  vegetable and essential oils, potatoes,  corn,
flour,  seasonings and packaging materials.  Since we rely on trucks to move and
distribute many of our products,  fuel is also an important commodity. We employ
specialists  to secure  adequate  supplies  of many of these  items and have not
experienced any significant  continuous shortages.  Prices we pay for such items
are subject to fluctuation. When prices increase, we may or may not pass on such
increases to our customers.  When we have decided to pass along price  increases
in the past we have done so successfully. However, there is no assurance that we
will be able to do so in the future.

Governmental Regulation

         The conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution and use
of many of our products,  are subject to various federal laws, such as the Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Occupational  Safety and Health Act and the Americans
with  Disabilities  Act. Our  businesses  are also  subject to state,  local and
foreign laws.


Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

         We  own  numerous  valuable  trademarks  which  are  essential  to  our
worldwide businesses,  including FRITO-LAY,  LAY'S, DORITOS, RUFFLES,  TOSTITOS,
FRITOS, CHEETOS, CRACKER JACK, ROLD GOLD, WOW!, SUNCHIPS,  SANTITAS,  SMARTFOOD,
SABRITAS, WALKERS, SMITH'S, PEPSI-COLA, PEPSI, DIET PEPSI, PEPSI ONE, PEPSI MAX,
MOUNTAIN DEW,  SLICE,  MUG, ALL SPORT,  AQUAFINA,  7UP and DIET 7UP (outside the
United  States),  MIRINDA,  TROPICANA  PURE PREMIUM,  TROPICANA  SEASON'S  BEST,
TROPICANA  TWISTER,   TROPICANA  PURE  TROPICS,  COPELLA,  FRUVITA,  and  LOOZA.
Trademarks  remain valid so long as they are used  properly  for  identification
purposes,  and we emphasize  correct use of our  trademarks.  We have authorized
(through  licensing  arrangements)  the use of many  of our  trademarks  in such
contexts as snack food joint ventures and Pepsi-Cola bottling  appointments.  In
addition,  we license the use of our  trademarks on collateral  products for the
primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness.

         We either own or have  licenses to use a number of patents which relate
to some of our products and the processes for their production and to the design
and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. Some of these patents
are licensed to others.





Environmental Matters

         We continue to make expenditures to comply with federal,  state,  local
and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These expenditures have not been
material  with respect to our capital  expenditures,  net income or  competitive
position.

Business Segments

Information related to:

o  Net sales;
o  Operating profit;
o  Total assets;
o  Amortization of intangible assets;
o  Depreciation and other amortization expense;
o  Significant other noncash items;
o  Capital spending;
o  Investments in unconsolidated affiliates;
o  Equity Income/(Loss) from unconsolidated affiliates;
o  Geographic net sales and long-lived assets; and
o  Impairment and restructuring charges by segment;

for each reportable  segment for 1999,  1998, and 1997 may be found in Item 8,
"Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data" in Note 18 on pages F-33 through
F-38.

Item 2.    Properties

Frito-Lay, Inc.

         FLNA operates 45 food manufacturing and processing plants in the United
States and Canada,  of which 41 are owned and 4 are leased.  In  addition,  FLNA
owns or leases approximately 230 warehouses and distribution centers for storage
of food  products in the United States and Canada.  Approximately  1,770 smaller
warehouses and storage  spaces  located  throughout the United States and Canada
are leased or owned. FLNA owns its headquarters building and a research facility
in Plano,  Texas.  FLNA also leases offices in Dallas,  Texas and leases or owns
sales/regional  offices throughout the United States. FLI operates approximately
80 plants and approximately 1,160 distribution  centers,  warehouses and offices
outside of the United States and Canada.

Pepsi-Cola Company

         PCNA  operates 3  concentrate  plants and 7 warehouses  throughout  the
United  States and  Canada.  Licensed  bottlers  in which we have a  significant
ownership  interest operate  approximately  76 bottling plants.  PCI operates 45
concentrate  and bottling  plants,  of which 40 are owned and 5 are leased.  PCI
also  operates 67  warehouses  and 63 offices  outside of the United  States and
Canada.

Tropicana

         TPI  owns 7  production  and  packing  plants,  12  offices  worldwide,
including its  headquarters  building in Bradenton,  Florida and 12 distribution
centers around the world.  TPI also leases 5 production and packing  plants,  19
offices and 13 distribution centers.




General

         The Company owns its corporate  headquarters buildings in Purchase, New
York.

         With a few exceptions, leases of plants in the United States and Canada
are on a long-term basis,  expiring at various times,  with options to renew for
additional periods. Most international plants are leased for varying and usually
shorter periods, with or without renewal options.

         We believe that our properties are in good operating  condition and are
suitable for the purposes for which they are being used.

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings

         We are subject to various claims and contingencies related to lawsuits,
taxes,  environmental  and other  matters  arising  out of the normal  course of
business.  Management believes that the ultimate liability, if any, in excess of
amounts  already  recognized for such claims or  contingencies  is not likely to
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition
or liquidity.

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Stockholders

         Not applicable.

                                     PART II

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

         Stock Trading Symbol - PEP

         Stock Exchange  Listings - The New York Stock Exchange is the principal
market for our Capital Stock,  which is also listed on the  Amsterdam,  Chicago,
Swiss and Tokyo Stock Exchanges.

         Shareholders - At December 25, 1999, there were  approximately  220,000
shareholders of record.

         Dividend  Policy - Quarterly  cash  dividends  are usually  declared in
November, January, May and July and paid at the beginning of January and the end
of March, June and September. The dividend record dates for 2000 are expected to
be March 10, June 9,  September 8 and December 8.  Quarterly cash dividends have
been paid since PepsiCo was formed in 1965.

         Cash Dividends Declared Per Share (in cents):


         Quarter            1999                1998
         -------            ----                ----

            1               13.0                12.5
            2               13.5                13.0
            3               13.5                13.0
            4               13.5                13.0
                            ----                ----
          Total             53.5                51.5







         Stock Prices - The high, low and closing  composite  prices for a share
of PepsiCo  Capital Stock,  as reported by Bloomberg  Services,  for each fiscal
quarter of 1999 and 1998 were as follows (in dollars):


1999                           High                 Low                Close
- ----                           ----                 ---                -----
First Quarter                  42 9/16              36 3/8             39 15/16
Second Quarter                 41 7/16              34 1/16            35 3/8
Third Quarter                  41 1/2               33 3/8             34 5/8
Fourth Quarter                 37 3/4               30 3/16            35 7/16

1998                           High                 Low                Close
- ----                           ----                 ---                -----
First Quarter                  43 7/8               34 3/16            43
Second Quarter                 44 13/16             37 3/8             40 11/16
Third Quarter                  43 3/4               27 9/16            30 15/16
Fourth Quarter                 41 1/4               28                 40 7/16


          Sales of  Unregistered  Securities - We acquired  2,201,445  shares of
PepsiCo's capital stock in open market  transactions and contributed such shares
to a newly-formed  business venture limited  liability company in exchange for a
33%   noncontrolling   interest  in  the  venture.   As  a  result,  we  have  a
noncontrolling   ownership  interest  of  approximately  24%  in  the  venture's
principal  operating   subsidiary,   PepsiAmericas,   Inc.,  a  publicly  traded
corporation.  The dates and amounts of purchase and  contribution of such shares
are as follows:



                       Date of                  Number of
                      Transaction                 Shares
                      -----------                 ------
                       10/18/99                  340,000
                       10/19/99                  370,000
                       10/20/99                  320,000
                       10/21/99                  375,000
                       10/22/99                  300,000
                       10/25/99                  270,000
                       10/26/99                  226,445



Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

Included on page F-43.





Item  7.  Management's   Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Results  of  Operations,
Consolidated Cash Flows and Liquidity and Capital Resources

Management's  Discussion and Analysis  (tabular  dollars in millions  except per
share amounts; all per share amounts assume dilution)

All per share information is computed using weighted average shares outstanding,
assuming dilution.

INTRODUCTION

Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  is  presented  in  four  sections.  The
Introductory section discusses Bottling Transactions,  Acquisitions, Market Risk
(including the EURO  conversion),  Year 2000, Asset Impairment and Restructuring
Charges and a New Accounting  Standard (pages 9-15). The second section analyzes
the Results of Operations,  first on a  consolidated  basis and then for each of
our  business  segments  (pages  15-24).  The final  two  sections  address  our
Consolidated Cash Flows and Liquidity and Capital Resources (pages 24-25).

Cautionary Statements

From  time  to  time,  in  written  reports  (including  the  Chairman's  letter
accompanying this annual report) and in oral statements, we discuss expectations
regarding  our future  performance,  the impact of the Euro  conversion  and the
impact  of  current  global   macro-economic   issues.  These   "forward-looking
statements" are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic
data and our operating plans. They are inherently uncertain,  and investors must
recognize  that  events  could  turn  out  to be  significantly  different  from
expectations.

Bottling Transactions

During 1999, we completed four  transactions  creating four anchor bottlers.  In
April,  certain  wholly-owned  bottling  businesses,  referred  to as The  Pepsi
Bottling  Group  (PBG),  completed  an  initial  public  offering  with  PepsiCo
retaining  a direct  noncontrolling  ownership  interest  of 35.5%.  In May,  we
combined  certain  bottling  operations  with Whitman  Corporation to create new
Whitman,  retaining a noncontrolling ownership interest of approximately 38%. In
July, we formed a business  venture with PepCom  Industries,  Inc., a Pepsi-Cola
franchisee,  retaining  a  noncontrolling  interest  in the  venture of 35%.  In
October,  we formed a business  venture  with  Pohlad  Companies,  a  Pepsi-Cola
franchisee,  retaining a noncontrolling  ownership interest of approximately 24%
in the venture's principal operating  subsidiary.  Details of these transactions
are found in Note 2.

Acquisitions

During 1999, we made  acquisitions,  primarily  investments in various  bottlers
including  investments  in  unconsolidated  affiliates,  which  aggregated  $430
million in cash.

During 1998,  acquisitions  aggregated $4.5 billion in cash including  Tropicana
Products,  Inc. for $3.3 billion and The Smith's  Snackfoods  Company  (TSSC) in
Australia for $270 million, the remaining ownership interest in various bottlers
and purchases of various other international salty snack food businesses.

The  results  of  operations  of  acquisitions  are  generally  included  in the
consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.





Market Risk

The principal  market risks (i.e., the risk of loss arising from adverse changes
in market rates and prices) to which we are exposed are:
     o   commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials,
     o   foreign exchange risks, and
     o   interest rates on our debt and short-term investment portfolios.

Commodity Prices
- ----------------

We are subject to market risk with  respect to the cost of  commodities  because
our ability to recover  increased costs through higher pricing may be limited by
the  competitive  environment in which we operate.  We use futures  contracts to
hedge  fluctuations in prices of a portion of anticipated  commodity  purchases,
primarily  oil,  corn,  fuel and juice  concentrates.  We had commodity  futures
positions  of $145 million at December 25, 1999 and $105 million at December 26,
1998.  Unrealized  losses on net commodity  futures positions were $6 million at
December 25, 1999 and $9 million at December 26,  1998.  We estimate  that a 10%
decline in commodity  prices would have increased the 1999 unrealized  losses by
$14 million and the 1998 unrealized losses by $9 million.

Foreign Exchange Risks
- ----------------------

Operating in international  markets involves  exposure to volatile  movements in
foreign  exchange rates.  The economic impact of foreign exchange rate movements
on us is complex  because such changes are often linked to  variability  in real
growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. These
changes,  if  material,  can  cause us to adjust  our  financing  and  operating
strategies.  Consequently,  isolating the effect of changes in currency does not
incorporate these other important economic factors.

International  operations  constitute  about 19% of our 1999 and 19% of our 1998
consolidated  operating  profit,  excluding asset  impairment and  restructuring
charges. As foreign exchange rates change,  translation of the income statements
of  our  international  businesses  into  U.S.  dollars  affects  year-over-year
comparability of operating results.  We do not generally hedge translation risks
because  cash flows  from  international  operations  are  generally  reinvested
locally. We do not enter into hedges to minimize volatility of reported earnings
because we do not believe it is justified by the exposure or the cost.

Changes  in  foreign  exchange  rates  that  would  have the  largest  impact on
translating  our  international  operating  profit for 1999  include the Mexican
peso,  British pound, EURO and Canadian dollar. We estimate that a 10% change in
foreign  exchange  rates would  impact  operating  profit by  approximately  $60
million in 1999 and $51 million in 1998.  This  represents  10% of our  non-U.S.
operating profit after adjusting for asset impairment and restructuring charges.
We believe that this quantitative measure has inherent limitations, as discussed
in the first  paragraph  of this  section.  Further,  the  sensitivity  analysis
disregards the possibility  that rates can move in opposite  directions and that
gains from one country may or may not be offset by losses from another country.

Foreign exchange gains and losses reflect  transaction gains and losses and also
translation gains and losses arising from the remeasurement into U.S. dollars of
the  net  monetary  assets  of  businesses  in  highly  inflationary  countries.
Transaction  gains  and  losses  arise  from  monetary  assets  and  liabilities
denominated  in currencies  other than a business  unit's  functional  currency.
There were net foreign  exchange  losses of $10 million in 1999,  $53 million in
1998 and $16 million in 1997.  The  decrease in net foreign  exchange  losses in
1999 resulted  primarily from the impact in 1998 of  unfavorable  macro-economic
conditions, primarily in Russia and Asia Pacific.




In 1998, the economic turmoil in Russia which accompanied the devaluation of the
ruble had an adverse impact on our  operations.  Consequently,  we experienced a
significant drop in demand, resulting in lower net sales and increased operating
losses.  Also,  since net bottling  sales in Russia were  denominated in rubles,
whereas a substantial portion of our related costs and expenses were denominated
in U.S. dollars,  bottling operating margins were further eroded. In response to
these conditions, we reduced our cost structure primarily by closing facilities,
renegotiating  manufacturing  contracts and reducing the number of employees. We
also wrote down our long-lived  bottling  assets to give effect to the resulting
impairment. See "- Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges" on page 12.

On  January 1, 1999,  11 of 15 member  countries  of the  European  Union  fixed
conversion rates between their existing  currencies (legacy  currencies) and one
common  currency - the EURO.  The euro trades on currency  exchanges  and may be
used in  business  transactions.  Conversion  to the  euro  eliminated  currency
exchange rate risk between the member countries.  Beginning in January 2002, new
EURO-denominated  bills and coins will be issued,  and legacy currencies will be
withdrawn  from  circulation.  Our operating  subsidiaries  affected by the euro
conversion  have  established  plans to address  the  issues  raised by the euro
currency  conversion.  These issues  include,  among  others,  the need to adapt
computer and  financial  systems,  business  processes  and  equipment,  such as
vending machines, to accommodate EURO-denominated transactions and the impact of
one common currency on pricing.  Since financial systems and processes currently
accommodate multiple currencies,  the plans contemplate conversion by the middle
of 2001 if not already  addressed  in  conjunction  with other system or process
initiatives.  We do not expect the system and equipment  conversion  costs to be
material.  Due to numerous  uncertainties,  we cannot  reasonably  estimate  the
long-term  effects one common  currency  will have on pricing and the  resulting
impact, if any, on financial condition or results of operations.

Interest Rates
- --------------

We centrally manage our debt and investment  portfolios  considering  investment
opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies.

We use interest rate and currency swaps to effectively  change the interest rate
and  currency of specific  debt  issuances,  with the  objective of reducing our
overall  borrowing  costs.  These swaps are entered into  concurrently  with the
issuance of the debt that they are  intended  to modify.  The  notional  amount,
interest  payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the principal,  interest
payment and maturity dates of the related debt. Accordingly,  any market risk or
opportunity  associated with these swaps is offset by the opposite market impact
on the related debt.

Our investment  portfolios  primarily consist of cash equivalents and short-term
marketable  securities.  Accordingly,  the carrying amounts  approximate  market
value. It is our practice to hold these investments to maturity.

Assuming  year-end  1999 and 1998 variable rate debt and  investment  levels,  a
one-point  increase in interest rates would have increased net interest  expense
by $13 million in 1999 and $64  million in 1998.  The change in this impact from
1998 resulted from  decreased  variable rate debt levels and increased  variable
rate investment levels at year-end 1999. This sensitivity analysis does not take
into account existing interest rate swaps.




Year 2000

To  date,   neither  we  nor  our  franchise  bottlers  have  experienced  major
disruptions related to the Year 2000 date change. In addition,  we are not aware
of significant  Year 2000 disruptions  impacting our customers or suppliers.  We
will continue to monitor our critical  systems over the next several  months but
do not anticipate a significant impact as a result of the Year 2000 date change.

Incremental  costs directly  related to Year 2000 issues for new PepsiCo totaled
$110  million  from  1998 to  2000.  Approximately  26% of the  total  estimated
spending  represents costs to repair systems while  approximately 53% represents
costs to replace and rewrite software.  Excluded from the estimated  incremental
costs for new PepsiCo for the three-year period are approximately $29 million of
internal recurring costs related to our Year 2000 efforts.


Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges

                                                 1999          1998         1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Asset impairment charges
- ------------------------

Held and used in the business
   Property, plant and equipment............    $   8        $ 149         $   5
   Intangible assets........................        -           37             -
   Other assets.............................        -           14             -

Held for disposal/abandonment
   Property, plant and equipment............       29           54           111
   Investments in unconsolidated affiliates.        -            -            21
   Net assets of business units.............        -            -            63
                                                -----        -----         -----
      Total asset impairment................       37          254           200

Restructuring charges
- ---------------------

Employee related costs......................       19           24            55
Other charges...............................        9           10            35
                                                -----        -----         -----
       Total restructuring..................       28           34            90
                                                -----        -----         -----
Total.......................................     $ 65        $ 288         $ 290
                                                =====        =====         =====
       After-tax............................     $ 40        $ 261         $ 239
                                                =====        =====         =====
       Per share............................    $0.03        $0.17         $0.15
                                                =====        =====         =====

Impairment by segment
- ---------------------

Frito-Lay North America.....................    $37         $  54        $    8
Frito-Lay International.....................      -             -            30
Pepsi-Cola North America....................      -             -            52
Pepsi-Cola International....................      -             6           105
                                               -----         -----        -----
Combined segments...........................     37            60           195
Bottling operations.........................      -           194             5
                                              -----         -----         -----
                                                $37          $254          $200
                                             =======       =======        =====




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The 1999 asset impairment and restructuring  charge of $65 million recognized in
the first  quarter  relates to the  closure of three  plants and  impairment  of
equipment  at  Frito-Lay  North  America.  This charge was the second phase of a
productivity  improvement plan developed in the fourth quarter of 1998. The plan
included the consolidation of U.S. production to newer and more efficient plants
and streamlining  logistics and  transportation  systems.  The  restructuring is
expected to generate  approximately  $15 million in annual savings  beginning in
2000 which we expect to reinvest back into the business.

The asset  impairment  charges  primarily  reflect the reduction in the carrying
value of the land and  buildings to their  estimated  fair market value based on
current selling prices for comparable  real estate,  less costs to sell, and the
write off of the net book value of  equipment  which cannot be  redeployed.  The
plant  closures were  completed  during 1999.  The majority of these assets were
either  disposed  of or  abandoned  in 1999.  The  restructuring  charges of $28
million primarily  included  severance costs for approximately 860 employees and
plant closing costs. Substantially all of the terminations occurred during 1999.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The 1998  asset  impairment  and  restructuring  charges  of $288  million  were
comprised of the following:

o    A  charge of $218  million  for asset  impairment  of $200  million and
     restructuring  charges  of $18  million  related  to our  Russian  bottling
     operations.  The economic  turmoil in Russia which  accompanied  the August
     1998   devaluation  of  the  ruble   adversely   impacted  our  operations.
     Consequently,  we  experienced a significant  drop in demand,  resulting in
     lower net sales and increased  operating  losses.  Also, since net bottling
     sales in Russia were denominated in rubles,  whereas a substantial  portion
     of our  related  costs  and  expenses  were  denominated  in U.S.  dollars,
     bottling  operating  margins  were  further  eroded.  In  response to these
     conditions,  we  reduced  our  cost  structure  primarily  through  closing
     facilities,  renegotiating  manufacturing contracts and reducing the number
     of  employees.  We  also  evaluated  our  long-lived  bottling  assets  for
     impairment,  triggered by the reduction in  utilization of assets caused by
     the lower  demand,  the  adverse  change in the  business  climate  and the
     expected continuation of operating losses and cash deficits in that market.
     The  impairment  charge  reduced  the net book value of the assets to their
     estimated fair market value,  based primarily on amounts  recently paid for
     similar  assets in that  marketplace.  Of the total charge of $218 million,
     $212 million related to bottling operations that became part of PBG in 1999
     (see "- Bottling Transactions" on page 9).

o    An impairment  charge of $54 million related to manufacturing  equipment at
     Frito-Lay  North  America.  As part of our annual  assessment  of marketing
     plans and related capacity  requirements at Frito-Lay North America and the
     development  of  a  program  to  improve  manufacturing  productivity,   we
     determined  that certain product  specific  equipment would not be utilized
     and  certain  capital  projects  would be  terminated  to avoid  production
     redundancies.  The charge primarily reflected the write off of the net book
     value of the equipment and related  projects.  Disposal or  abandonment  of
     these assets was completed in 1999.

o    A charge of $16 million  for  employee  related  costs  resulting  from the
     separation  of  Pepsi-Cola   North   America's   concentrate  and  bottling
     organizations  to more  effectively  serve retail customers in light of the
     conversion of PBG to public  ownership  (see "- Bottling  Transactions"  on
     page 9). Of this amount,  $10 million  related to bottling  operations that
     became part of PBG in 1999.





The employee related costs for 1998 of $24 million primarily  included severance
and relocation costs for  approximately  2,700 employees  located in the Russian
bottling plants and at Pepsi-Cola  North America field  locations.  During 1998,
approximately 2,600 of the terminations occurred most of which were terminations
of part-time  employees with little associated cost. The remaining  terminations
either  occurred in 1999 or related to the bottling  operations that became part
of PBG in 1999.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The 1997  asset  impairment  and  restructuring  charges  of $290  million  were
comprised of the following:

o    Net charges of $183  million in several of our  business  segments  for net
     asset  impairment of $150 million related to the planned disposal of assets
     and for restructuring  charges of $33 million.  The impairment charges were
     taken as a result of decisions to dispose of certain company-owned bottling
     operations  and non-core  international  businesses,  to dispose of certain
     assets to improve the  utilization  of facilities  and to reduce  occupancy
     costs and to exit certain bottling joint ventures.  The impairment  charges
     reduced the net book value of these assets to their  estimated  fair market
     value,  generally based on estimates developed internally or, if available,
     amounts paid for similar assets, less costs to sell. The disposals occurred
     in  1997  and  1998  and in  connection  with  the  separation  of  certain
     company-owned  bottling  operations (see "- Bottling  Transactions" on page
     9). The restructuring charges primarily related to the reorganization of an
     international company-owned bottling operation.

o    Charges  of  $94   million  for  asset   impairment   of  $48  million  and
     restructuring charges of $46 million related to productivity initiatives in
     worldwide snacks.  These initiatives  included closing plants,  eliminating
     production lines and consolidating  distribution facilities.  The resulting
     impairment  charges were recognized  primarily for assets held for disposal
     or abandonment  and reduced the net book value of impaired  assets to their
     estimated  fair  market  value,  generally  based  on  estimates  developed
     internally or, if available, amounts paid for similar assets, less costs to
     sell.  Disposal or abandonment of these assets was substantially  completed
     in 1997, with a significant  portion of the remainder  completed in 1998 as
     planned.

o    Net charges of $13 million for net asset  impairment  of $2 million and net
     restructuring  charges of $11 million  related to actions to strengthen our
     international  bottling  structure.  Restructuring  charges of $98  million
     consisted  of third party  termination  payments  related to  refranchising
     bottling  operations and our investments in bottling joint ventures.  These
     charges  were  substantially  offset by an  arbitration  settlement  of $87
     million  which  we were  awarded  as a  result  of the  termination  of the
     bottling appointment with our previous Venezuelan bottler.

The employee related costs for 1997 of $55 million primarily  included severance
and relocation  costs for  approximately  2,100 employees  primarily  located in
international  plants and  distribution  centers.  During 1997,  terminations of
approximately   1,100  employees  occurred  and,  in  1998,   approximately  500
terminations  occurred. As a result of the successful  redeployment of employees
to other  locations,  approximately  500  terminations  did not occur as planned
which resulted in a change of estimate in 1998.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The  restructuring  reserves are included in accounts  payable and other current
liabilities in the  Consolidated  Balance Sheet. At year-end 1999, the remaining
liability  for  1997  restructuring   charges  associated  with  investments  in
unconsolidated  affiliates  was  $10  million  related  to  indemnifications  of
litigation liabilities.




The remaining  carrying  amounts of assets held for disposal at year end were $6
million in 1999, $13 million in 1998 and $60 million in 1997. The net sales from
international  bottling  business  units held for disposal  were $202 million in
1998 and $590 million in 1997. Such businesses  generated  operating  profits of
$20 million in 1998 and $42 million in 1997. Our  investments in  unconsolidated
affiliates held for disposal provided  break-even  results in 1999 and losses of
$2 million in 1998 and $5 million in 1997.

New Accounting Standard

In June 1998,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued  Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and Hedging  Activities.  SFAS 133, as amended by SFAS 137, is effective for our
fiscal year  beginning  2001.  SFAS 133  establishes  accounting  and  reporting
standards for derivative  instruments,  including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other  contracts,  and for hedging  activities.  It requires that we
recognize all  derivative  instruments  as either assets or  liabilities  in the
Consolidated  Balance Sheet and measure those  instruments at fair value. We are
currently  assessing  the effects of  adopting  SFAS 133 and have not yet made a
determination  of the impact  adoption will have on our  consolidated  financial
statements.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Consolidated Review

General

In the  discussions  below,  the  year-over-year  dollar change in pound or kilo
sales  of  salty  and  sweet  snacks  for  Frito-Lay,   bottler  case  sales  by
company-owned  bottling operations and concentrate unit sales to franchisees for
Pepsi-Cola,  and  four-gallon  equivalent  cases for Tropicana is referred to as
volume. Price changes over the prior year and the impact of product, package and
country sales mix changes are referred to as effective net pricing.

The  combined  results of our five  reportable  segments  are referred to as new
PepsiCo.

Net Sales
                                                                  % Change B/(W)
                                                                  --------------
                                1999         1998        1997     1999    1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reported                     $20,367      $22,348     $20,917       (9)      7
                             =======      =======     =======

New PepsiCo                  $18,244      $14,686     $13,655       24       8
Intercompany elimination*        422        1,614       1,462      (74)     10
                             -------      -------     -------
New PepsiCo before
  Elimination                $18,666      $16,300     $15,117       15       8
                             =======      =======     =======

*    Reflects  intercompany  concentrate sales between  Pepsi-Cola North America
     and Pepsi-Cola  International  and those previously  consolidated  bottling
     operations in which we now own an equity interest.


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------





Reported net sales decreased $2.0 billion in 1999 reflecting the deconsolidation
of PBG, PBO and PepCom operations as of the transaction closing dates, partially
offset by the inclusion of Tropicana for the first three  quarters of 1999.  New
PepsiCo net sales, before the intercompany elimination,  increased $2.4 billion.
This increase  primarily reflects the inclusion of Tropicana for the first three
quarters of 1999,  volume gains at worldwide  Frito-Lay and higher effective net
pricing at  worldwide  Frito-Lay  and  Pepsi-Cola  North  America.  Volume gains
contributed  4  percentage   points  of  growth  and  higher  effective  pricing
contributed 3 percentage  points.  These  advances were  partially  offset by an
unfavorable  foreign currency impact.  The unfavorable  foreign currency impact,
primarily in Brazil and Mexico, reduced new PepsiCo net sales growth by nearly 2
percentage points.

Reported  net sales rose $1.4  billion in 1998.  New PepsiCo  net sales,  before
intercompany elimination,  increased $1.2 billion. This increase reflects volume
gains in all businesses,  net contributions from  acquisitions/divestitures  and
higher  effective  net pricing  driven by a shift to  higher-priced  products in
Frito-Lay North America. Volume gains contributed 5 percentage points of growth.
Net  acquisitions/divestitures  contributed  3  percentage  points  to the sales
growth and primarily  reflect the acquisition of Tropicana  partially  offset by
the absence of bottling sales as a result of  refranchising  a Japanese  bottler
late in 1997.  Excluding  foreign currency  impact,  new PepsiCo net sales would
have risen 9%. Weaker foreign currencies primarily in Canada, Thailand,  Brazil,
Poland and India led the unfavorable foreign currency impact.

Operating Profit and Margin
                                                                    Change B/(W)
                                                                 ---------------
                                   1999       1998      1997     1999     1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reported
  Total Operating Profit          $2,818    $2,584    $2,662        9%      (3)%
  Total Operating Profit Margin     13.8%     11.6%     12.7%     2.2     (1.1)

Ongoing
  New PepsiCo Operating
   Profit                         $2,830    $2,526    $2,519       12%       -
  New PepsiCo Operating
   Profit Margin*                   15.2%     15.5%     16.7%    (0.3)    (1.2)

Ongoing excludes  impairment and  restructuring  charges of $65, $66 and $267 in
1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively  (see Notes 4 and 18). * Based on new PepsiCo
net sales before intercompany elimination.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reported  operating  profit  margin  increased  2.2  percentage  points in 1999.
Ongoing new PepsiCo  operating profit margin declined 0.3 percentage  point. The
decline  reflects the margin impact of the Tropicana  acquisition  for the first
three  quarters,   increased  general  and  administrative  (G&A)  expenses  and
increased advertising and marketing (A&M) expenses across all business segments.
These decreases were partially  offset by the margin impact of higher  effective
net pricing.

The most  significant  G&A increase in 1999 was corporate G&A which includes $71
million   related  to  the  start-up,   project   management,   development  and
installation of a shared  services  program.  The shared  services  program will
provide common system  capabilities,  data management and data processing across
North America and Continental  Europe.  The increase in A&M was led by increases
in promotional allowances at Frito-Lay North America,  bottler funding and other
programs at Pepsi-Cola  North America and spending at Frito-Lay  International's
U.K. business.





In 1998,  reported  operating profit margin  decreased over 1 percentage  point.
Ongoing new PepsiCo  operating  profit margin declined over 1 percentage  point,
primarily  reflecting the margin impact of increased  A&M,  higher cost of sales
and increased selling and distribution expenses,  partially offset by the impact
of volume growth.  A&M grew at a  significantly  faster rate than sales,  led by
increases at worldwide Pepsi-Cola and increases at Frito-Lay North America. Cost
of sales as a percentage  of sales  increased due to costs  associated  with new
plants and lines at Frito-Lay  North  America.  Selling and  distribution  (S&D)
expense  growth at Frito-Lay  North  America  reflected an increase in the sales
force.  Excluding  foreign exchange losses,  ongoing operating profit would have
increased  1%.  Foreign  exchange  losses,  primarily  in Asia,  are reported in
corporate  unallocated expenses.  Information  technology expense increased on a
year-over-year   basis,   despite  $42  million  of  software  costs  that  were
capitalized  as  required  by  SOP  98-1,  driven  by our  various  productivity
initiatives and Year 2000 remediation efforts.

Gain on Bottling Transactions

The gain on bottling  transactions  of $1.0 billion ($270  million  after-tax or
$0.18  per  share)  relates  to the  second  quarter  PBG and  Whitman  bottling
transactions.  The PBG  transaction  resulted in a pre-tax  gain of $1.0 billion
($476  million  after-tax or $0.32 per share) in the second  quarter  consistent
with our policy for gain recognition upon the issuance of stock by a subsidiary.
The majority of the taxes are expected to be deferred indefinitely.  The Whitman
transaction  resulted in an  after-tax  loss to us of $206  million or $0.14 per
share.

The third quarter PepCom transaction was accounted for as a nonmonetary exchange
for book purposes.  A portion of the  transaction  was taxable which resulted in
income tax expense of $25 million or $0.02 per share.

The fourth  quarter Pohlad  transaction  was structured as a fair value exchange
with no resulting gain or loss.

Interest Expense, net

Interest expense,  net of interest income,  declined $76 million or 24% in 1999.
Interest  income  increased $44 million or 59%  primarily due to higher  average
investment  balances,  partially offset by lower average interest rates on these
balances. The higher average investment balances primarily result from the first
quarter  proceeds  received from PBG as settlement of pre-existing  intercompany
balances.  Interest  expense  decreased  $32 million or 8% due to lower  average
interest rates on slightly lower average outstanding debt levels.

Interest  expense,  net of interest income,  declined $32 million or 9% in 1998.
The decline in interest expense of $83 million or 17% was primarily due to lower
average debt levels,  as a result of using cash flows received from discontinued
operations in the latter half of 1997 to repay debt.  The lower debt levels were
maintained  until the end of the third quarter when the debt level  increased to
finance several  acquisitions (see "- Acquisitions" on page 9). This decline was
partially  offset  by  higher  average  interest  rates on the  remaining  debt.
Interest income declined $51 million or 41% reflecting lower  investment  levels
as a result of  utilizing  investment  balances to make  acquisitions  and repay
debt.




Provision for Income Taxes
                                         1999         1998          1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reported
  Provision for Income Taxes           $1,606         $270         $ 818
  Effective tax rate                     43.9%        11.9%         35.4%

Ongoing
  Provision for Income Taxes           $  876         $791         $ 869
  Effective tax rate                     32.2%        31.0%         33.4%

Ongoing  excludes the effects of the bottling  transactions in 1999,  impairment
and  restructuring  charges  for all years (see Note 4) and the 1998  income tax
benefit (see Note 14).

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In  1999,  the  reported  effective  tax rate  increased  32  percentage  points
primarily  as a result of the tax effects of the bottling  transactions  and the
absence in 1999 of the 1998 income tax benefit.  The ongoing  effective tax rate
increased 1.2 percentage point. The increase resulted primarily from the absence
in 1999 of the  settlement  in 1998 of prior years'  audit issues  offset by the
benefit of proportionately lower bottling income.

In 1998,  the reported  effective  tax rate  decreased  23.5  percentage  points
primarily  as a result of an income tax  benefit of $494  million  (or $0.32 per
share).  The tax benefit  reflects a final  agreement with the Internal  Revenue
Service to settle  substantially all remaining aspects of a tax case relating to
our  concentrate  operations  in Puerto  Rico.  The ongoing  effective  tax rate
declined 2.4 percentage points attributable to the favorable settlement of prior
years' audit issues,  including issues related to the deductibility of purchased
franchise rights.

Income from Continuing Operations and Income Per Share
                                                                 % Change B/(W)
                                                                 --------------
                                1999       1998       1997      1999      1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from Continuing
  Operations
    Reported                  $2,050     $1,993     $1,491         3        34
    Ongoing                   $1,845     $1,760     $1,730         5         2

Income Per Share from
  Continuing Operations
    Reported                   $1.37      $1.31      $0.95         5        38
    Ongoing                    $1.23      $1.16      $1.10         6         5

Ongoing  excludes the effects of the bottling  transactions in 1999,  impairment
and  restructuring  charges  for all years (see Note 4) and the 1998  income tax
benefit (see Note 14).

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For 1999, reported income from continuing operations increased $57 million while
income per share  increased  $0.06.  Ongoing income from  continuing  operations
increased  $85  million  and  income  per share  increased  $0.07.  The  ongoing
increases  are due to  increased  operating  profit,  a decrease in net interest
expense and, for income per share,  the benefit from a 1.5% reduction in average
shares outstanding. These were partially offset by a higher effective tax rate.




For 1998,  reported  income from  continuing  operations  increased $502 million
while  income  per  share  increased  $0.36.   Ongoing  income  from  continuing
operations  increased  $30 million  and income per share  increased  $0.06.  The
ongoing  increases  are due to the lower  effective tax rate and, for income per
share, the benefit from a 3% reduction in average shares outstanding. These were
partially offset by lower operating profit.

Net Income and Net Income Per Share

For 1997,  net income of $2.1 billion and income per share of $1.36  include the
results of income from  discontinued  operations,  which  primarily  reflect the
operating results of Tricon's core restaurant businesses through October 6, 1997
and the  operating  results  and a gain on sale of the  restaurant  distribution
operation sold in the second quarter of 1997.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Additional  information  concerning our operating  segments is presented in Note
18.

Frito-Lay
- ---------

The  standard  volume  measure  is  pounds  for  North  America  and  kilos  for
International.  Pound and kilo growth are reported on a systemwide  and constant
territory  basis,   which  includes   currently   consolidated   businesses  and
unconsolidated affiliates reported for at least one year.

                             Frito-Lay North America

                                                                % Change B/(W)
                                                                --------------
                             1999        1998        1997        1999     1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net Sales                  $7,865      $7,474      $6,967           5        7

Operating Profit
 Reported                  $1,580      $1,424      $1,388           11       3
 Ongoing                   $1,645      $1,478      $1,410           11       5


Ongoing  excludes  impairment and  restructuring  charges of $65 in 1999, $54 in
1998 and $22 in 1997 (see Notes 4 and 18).

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1999 vs. 1998
- -------------

Net sales  grew $391  million  due to volume  gains  and  higher  effective  net
pricing.

Pound volume advanced 4%. The advance was led by high single-digit growth in our
core corn products,  excluding the low-fat and no-fat versions, mid single-digit
growth in Lay's brand potato chips and significant  growth in Cracker Jack brand
products and branded  dips.  Volume  declines in our "WOW!",  "Baked"  Lay's and
"Baked" Tostitos brand products partially offset these gains.




Reported  operating  profit  increased $156 million.  Ongoing  operating  profit
increased  $167 million  reflecting  the higher  volume,  higher  effective  net
pricing and reduced  commodity  costs,  partially offset by higher A&M expenses.
A&M grew at a faster  rate than sales due  primarily  to  increased  promotional
allowances.

Ongoing  operating  profit margin  increased over 1 percentage  point due to the
margin  impact of higher  effective  net pricing,  reduced  commodity  costs and
volume gains, partially offset by the margin impact of higher A&M expenses.

1998 vs. 1997
- -------------

Net sales grew $507 million due to increased volume and a favorable mix shift to
higher-priced products.

Pound  volume  advanced  5% led by core brand  growth and "WOW!"  products.  The
growth in core brands,  excluding  the low-fat and no-fat  versions,  was led by
double-digit  growth in Lay's  brand  potato  chips and  double-digit  growth in
Doritos brand tortilla chips.  These gains were partially  offset by declines in
Ruffles brand potato chips,  "Baked" Lay's and "Baked"  Tostitos  brand products
and the elimination of Doritos Reduced Fat brand tortilla chips.

Reported  operating  profit  increased  $36 million.  Ongoing  operating  profit
increased $68 million  reflecting the higher volume and the favorable mix shift,
partially  offset by increased  operating costs. The increase in operating costs
was  led  by  increased  A&M,  higher  manufacturing  costs,   reflecting  costs
associated with new plants and lines related to "WOW!" and Doritos 3-D products,
and higher S&D expenses.  A&M grew at a significantly faster rate than sales and
volume due to increased promotional allowances and "WOW!" launch costs. S&D grew
at a slightly slower rate than sales but faster than volume.

                             Frito-Lay International

                                                                 % Change B/(W)
                                                              ------------------
                               1999         1998          1997    1999     1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net Sales                    $3,750       $3,501        $3,409       7        3

Operating Profit
 Reported                   $   406      $   367       $   318      11       15
 Ongoing                    $   406      $   367       $   380      11       (3)


Ongoing excludes impairment and restructuring  charges of $62 in 1997 (see Notes
4 and 18).

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1999 vs. 1998
- -------------

Net sales increased $249 million. Excluding the negative impact of Brazil, which
was primarily due to macro-economic conditions, net sales increased $397 million
or 13% reflecting higher volume and higher effective net pricing.  Overall,  the
higher  effective  net  pricing  more  than  offset  the net  impact  of  weaker
currencies outside of Brazil. The unfavorable foreign currency impact, primarily
in Mexico,  reduced net sales growth by 4 percentage  points.  Net contributions
from  acquisitions/divestitures  contributed  1  percentage  point to the  sales
growth.




Salty snack kilos  increased 6%. The advance was led by  double-digit  growth at
Sabritas in Mexico and several of our  businesses  in Central and South  America
and in  Asia.  Including  acquisitions/divestitures,  total  salty  snack  kilos
increased  an  additional  4  percentage  points to 10% driven  primarily by the
acquisition  in Australia  and by  acquisitions  and mergers of salty snack food
businesses in South America. Sweet snack kilos increased 6% led by strong growth
at Gamesa and Sabritas in Mexico. Sweet snack kilos, including the net effect of
acquisitions/divestitures, declined 5% primarily as a result of the sales of our
chocolate and biscuit businesses in Poland.

Operating  profit  increased $39 million.  Excluding  Brazil,  operating  profit
increased $81 million or 25% driven by strong  performances at Sabritas,  Gamesa
and  several  of our  businesses  in Asia.  The net  impact  of  weaker  foreign
currencies  outside of  Brazil,  primarily  in Mexico  and the  United  Kingdom,
reduced operating profit growth by 5 percentage points. The unfavorable  foreign
currency impact was more than offset by higher effective net pricing.

1998 vs. 1997
- -------------

Net sales  increased  $92  million.  The increase in net sales was driven by net
contributions from  acquisitions/divestitures and by higher volume. The increase
was partially  offset by the impact of weaker foreign  currencies  including the
unfavorable  effect in Mexico of the  devaluation  of the peso  against the U.S.
dollar net of local  pricing  actions.  Excluding  Mexico,  the impact of weaker
foreign currencies,  primarily Brazil, Poland,  Australia and Thailand,  reduced
net  sales  growth  by  2  percentage  points.   Net   acquisitions/divestitures
contributed 3 percentage points to the sales growth.

Salty snack kilos increased 6%, led by solid double-digit  growth at Sabritas in
Mexico  and the  Snack  Ventures  Europe  joint  venture,  partially  offset  by
double-digit  declines  in Brazil.  Including  acquisitions/divestitures,  salty
snack kilos increased to 14%. The increase of 8 percentage  points was primarily
driven by the  acquisitions  through  partnership  with, as well as, purchase of
salty  snack food  businesses  in Central and South  America.  Sweet snack kilos
declined  2%  driven  by a  single-digit  decline  at  Gamesa  in  Mexico  and a
double-digit  decline at Wedel in Poland.  These  declines  in sweet snack kilos
were partially  offset by  double-digit  growth at Sabritas.  Sweet snack kilos,
including  the effect of  acquisitions/divestitures,  declined 8% primarily as a
result of the first quarter sale of a French biscuit business.

Reported  operating  profit  increased  $49 million.  Ongoing  operating  profit
declined $13 million.  Deterioration  of operating  performance in Brazil due to
the macro-economic conditions and market softness at Gamesa was partially offset
by growth at  Sabritas  and in Poland.  The  growth in Poland was  substantially
driven by the sweet snack businesses which were sold in early 1999.

Pepsi-Cola
- ----------

In early 1999, in  contemplation  of the separation from PepsiCo of our bottling
operations,   we  completed  a  reorganization   of  our  Pepsi-Cola   business.
Accordingly,  our 1999 disclosure presents the operating results consistent with
the new Pepsi-Cola organization.  Prior years' amounts have been reclassified to
conform to the 1999  presentation.  For additional  information see Note 18. The
discussion  that  follows  presents  net  sales  prior  to  the  elimination  of
intercompany  concentrate sales between  Pepsi-Cola North America and Pepsi-Cola
International and those previously  consolidated bottling operations in which we
now own an equity interest.

System  bottler  case sales  (BCS)  represents  PepsiCo-owned  brands as well as
brands that we have been  granted the right to  produce,  distribute  and market
nationally and are sold by system bottlers.





                            Pepsi-Cola North America

                                                                  % Change B/(W)
                                                                  --------------
                              1999        1998        1997        1999     1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net Sales                   $3,005     $ 2,912     $ 2,727           3       7
Intercompany elimination      (400)     (1,523)     (1,383)         74     (10)
                           ========    ========    ========
Reported                    $2,605     $ 1,389     $ 1,344          88       3
                           ========    ========    ========

Operating Profit
 Repor                     $   751      $  732     $   755           3      (3)
 Ongoing                   $   751      $  738     $   807           2      (9)

Ongoing excludes  impairment and restructuring  charges of $6 in 1998 and $52 in
1997 (see Notes 4 and 18).

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1999 vs. 1998
- -------------

Reported net sales increased $1.2 billion,  primarily due to the decrease in the
intercompany elimination of concentrate sales resulting from the deconsolidation
of the PBG, PBO and PepCom  bottling  operations.  Before the  elimination,  net
sales  increased  $93  million  reflecting  higher  concentrate  pricing  net of
increased customer support and increased royalty income associated with Aquafina
bottled water.

BCS  increased  nearly  2% led by Pepsi  One,  introduced  late last  year,  mid
single-digit  growth of our Mountain Dew brand and strong double-digit growth of
our  Aquafina  brand of bottled  water.  These  gains were  partially  offset by
single-digit declines in Pepsi and Diet Pepsi brands. Concentrate shipments were
even with prior year.

Reported  operating  profit  increased  $19 million.  Ongoing  operating  profit
increased $13 million  primarily  reflecting  the increase in the net benefit of
the higher  pricing and the  increased  royalty  income.  These  increases  were
partially  offset by higher  fountain  related  costs,  increased  A&M  spending
related to bottler  funding and other  programs and higher G&A costs as a result
of costs associated with building our concentrate company infrastructure.

1998 vs. 1997
- -------------

Reported net sales increased $45 million. Before the elimination of intercompany
concentrate sales, net sales increased $185 million primarily  reflecting higher
concentrate volume.

BCS  increased  6%, led by the strong  single-digit  growth of the  Mountain Dew
brand,  contributions from Pepsi One and strong  double-digit growth of Aquafina
bottled water and Lipton Brisk.  Pepsi and Diet Pepsi brands also contributed to
the  growth,  both  advancing  at  single-digit  rates.   Concentrate  shipments
increased 5%.

Reported  operating  profit  decreased  $23 million.  Ongoing  operating  profit
decreased $69 million  primarily due to planned  increases in A&M and higher G&A
costs.  These  increases  were  partially  offset by the  increased  concentrate
volume.  A&M expenses grew faster than sales and volume  reflecting  new product
launches,  such as Pepsi One, and planned  increases  for Project  Globe and Pop
Culture promotions.  G&A costs grew due to higher costs associated with building
our fountain infrastructure.





                            Pepsi-Cola International
                                                                  % Change B/(W)
                                                                ----------------
                              1999       1998        1997       1999       1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net Sales                   $1,793     $1,691      $2,014          6        (16)
Intercompany elimination       (22)       (91)        (79)        76        (15)
                            -------    -------     -------
Reported                    $1,771     $1,600      $1,935         11        (17)
                            =======    =======     =======

Operating Profit
 Reported                   $  108      $  99      $  (67)         9         NM
 Ongoing                    $  108      $ 105      $   64          3         64

Ongoing excludes impairment and restructuring  charges of $6 in 1998 and $131 in
1997 (see Notes 4 and 18). NM - Not meaningful.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1999 vs. 1998
- -------------

Reported net sales  increased  $171 million  which  includes the decrease in the
intercompany  elimination  resulting  from  the  deconsolidation  of PBG and PBO
bottling operations.  Before the elimination of intercompany  concentrate sales,
net sales increased $102 million.  This advance reflects net contributions  from
acquisitions/divestitures,  higher  volume and  higher  effective  net  pricing,
partially  offset  by  a  net  unfavorable  foreign  currency  impact.  The  net
unfavorable  foreign currency  impact,  primarily in Brazil,  Mexico,  India and
Germany, reduced net sales by 3 percentage points.

BCS  increased  1% primarily  reflecting  double-digit  growth in China,  strong
double-digit growth in Germany,  Japan and Pakistan,  and single-digit growth in
India and Saudi Arabia.  These  advances were  partially  offset by lower BCS in
Brazil, Russia, the Philippines and Thailand. Through December total concentrate
shipments to franchisees,  including those former wholly-owned bottlers in which
we now own an equity  interest,  increased  2% while  their BCS  increased  at a
slower rate.

Reported  operating  profit  increased  $9  million.  Ongoing  operating  profit
increased $3 million  reflecting  volume gains and higher effective net pricing.
These    gains   were    reduced    by   higher    A&M,    net    losses    from
acquisitions/divestitures and unfavorable foreign currency impact.

1998 vs. 1997
- -------------

Reported  net  sales   decreased  $335  million.   Before  the   elimination  of
intercompany  concentrate sales, net sales decreased $323 million.  This decline
was primarily due to the absence of Japan  bottling sales in 1998 as a result of
the  refranchising  of our  Japanese  bottler  late in 1997 and net  unfavorable
foreign currency impact,  partially offset by higher volume. The net unfavorable
foreign currency impact, primarily in Thailand and India, reduced net sales by 2
percentage points.

BCS  increased 6% reflecting  double-digit  growth in Mexico,  the  Philippines,
India, Pakistan and China. In addition,  BCS grew at a high double-digit rate in
Venezuela reflecting the continued momentum by the joint venture as it increased
its territories and capacity.  These advances were partially offset by lower BCS
in Japan  due to the  elimination  of  certain  PepsiCo-owned  brands by the new
bottler Suntory.  The PepsiCo-owned  brands that continued to be sold by Suntory
grew  at a  double-digit  rate.  Total  concentrate  shipments  to  franchisees,
including  those  former  wholly-owned  bottlers  in which we now own an  equity
interest, increased 6% while their BCS increased at a slightly higher rate.





Reported  operating  profit  increased $166 million.  Ongoing  operating  profit
increased $41 million  reflecting  higher volume gains  (reported by most of our
business  units) and lower G&A  expenses,  due in part to savings  from our 1996
restructuring. These gains were partially reduced by higher A&M.

Tropicana
- ---------

The standard measure of volume is four-gallon equivalent cases.

In its first full year as part of  PepsiCo,  net sales were  $2.25  billion  and
operating  profit was $170 million for 1999. For the period August 26, 1998 (the
date of acquisition)  through December 26, 1998, net sales were $722 million and
operating  profit was $40  million.  This 18 week period in 1998 was reported in
the fourth  quarter  and,  therefore,  is not  comparable  to the 16 week fourth
quarter of 1999.  Including the impact of the  additional two weeks in 1998, net
sales decreased 2% and operating  profit  increased 35%. On a comparable 16 week
basis,  net sales and  operating  profit  increased  10% and 55%,  respectively.
Volume for the fiscal year 1999 increased 4%, led by an 8% increase in Tropicana
Pure Premium worldwide.  Higher pricing taken to offset increases in the cost of
oranges, combined with volume growth, drove 1999 operating performance.

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS

1999 vs. 1998
- -------------

Our 1999 consolidated cash and cash equivalents  increased $653 million compared
to a $1.6 billion decrease in 1998. The change primarily  reflects a decrease in
cash outflows for acquisitions and investments in  unconsolidated  affiliates as
compared to 1998,  which included the acquisition of Tropicana,  and lower share
repurchase activity in 1999. In addition, cash and cash equivalents increased as
a result of net  proceeds  from  long-term  debt  financings  in 1999  primarily
related to the PBG separation,  versus net payments in 1998.  These  comparative
increases  were  partially  offset by net payments of  short-term  borrowings in
1999,  primarily  funded from amounts  received from PBG,  versus net short-term
borrowings in 1998 and the  comparative  impact of net  maturities of short-term
investments in 1998.

1998 vs. 1997
- -------------
Our 1998 consolidated cash and cash equivalents  decreased $1.6 billion compared
to a $1.6 billion  increase in 1997.  Excluding  cash  provided by  discontinued
operations in 1997, the decrease in cash and cash  equivalents  was $1.6 billion
in 1998 compared with a $4.6 billion  decrease in 1997.  The change in cash flow
primarily  reflects net proceeds  from issuance of debt and the  liquidation  of
investment  portfolios  in 1998 compared to net debt  repayments in 1997.  These
cash  inflows  were  primarily  used to fund  acquisitions  and  investments  in
unconsolidated  affiliates  during the year. The acquisitions and investments in
unconsolidated  affiliates  include the  purchases of  Tropicana,  the remaining
ownership  interest in various  bottlers,  TSSC and various other  international
salty snack food businesses.





Share Repurchases
- -----------------
Our share repurchase activity was as follows:

                                                   1999        1998        1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cost                                             $1,285      $2,230      $2,459
Shares repurchased
   Number of shares (in millions)                  35.8        59.2        69.0
   % of shares outstanding at beginning of year     2.4%        3.9%        4.5%

The  current  authorization  for  share  repurchases  granted  by our  Board  of
Directors is $3 billion over the three year period from 1999 to 2001.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We reduced our revolving credit facilities to $1.5 billion in 1999. Of the $4.75
billion as of year-end  1998,  $3.1 billion  expired  March 26, 1999 and was not
renewed due to our reduced  borrowing  needs.  The  remaining  $1.65 billion was
cancelled on June 18, 1999 and replaced with a $600 million facility expiring in
June  of  2000  and a $900  million  facility  expiring  in  June  of  2004.  At
expiration,  these facilities can be extended an additional year upon the mutual
consent of PepsiCo and the lending  institutions.  The credit  facilities  exist
largely to support  issuances of  short-term  debt and remain unused at year-end
1999. At year-end 1999, $900 million of short-term  borrowings were reclassified
as long-term,  reflecting  our intent and ability,  through the existence of the
unused credit facilities, to refinance these borrowings.

As discussed  in Note 2, our Board of Directors  approved a plan in 1998 for the
separation  from  PepsiCo of PBG.  PBG  completed  an IPO on April 6,  1999.  In
February and March of 1999,  in  preparation  for the IPO, PBG and its principal
operating   subsidiary,   Bottling  Group,   LLC,   incurred  $6.55  billion  of
indebtedness.  Of the $6.55  billion,  $3.25  billion was repaid by PBG with the
proceeds  of  the  IPO  and  the  issuance  of  long-term   debt.   PepsiCo  has
unconditionally  guaranteed $2.3 billion of Bottling Group,  LLC long-term debt.
During the first quarter, we received $5.5 billion of the debt proceeds obtained
by PBG primarily as settlement of pre-existing  intercompany  amounts due to us.
These  proceeds  were  used to repay  our  short-term  borrowings  and for share
repurchases.

The Whitman transaction,  completed on May 20, 1999, generated net cash proceeds
of $300 million.


The  deconsolidation of the PBG, PBO and PepCom operations  resulted in declines
in current  assets,  intangible  assets,  property,  plant and  equipment,  net,
current  liabilities,  long-term debt and deferred income taxes, and an increase
in investments in unconsolidated affiliates.

Our strong  cash-generating  capability  and financial  condition  give us ready
access to capital markets throughout the world.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Included in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis - Market Risk beginning
on page 10.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

See Index to Financial Information on page F-2.





Item 9.Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

Not applicable.

                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The  following is a list of names,  ages and  background of our current
executive officers:

Roger A. Enrico,  55, is our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive  Officer.
Mr. Enrico was elected as PepsiCo's Chief Executive  Officer in April,  1996 and
as Chairman of the Board in November, 1996, after serving as Vice Chairman since
1993.  Mr.  Enrico,  who joined  PepsiCo  in 1971,  became  President  and Chief
Executive  Officer of  Pepsi-Cola  USA in 1983,  President  and Chief  Executive
Officer of PepsiCo Worldwide Beverages in 1986, and Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of  Frito-Lay,  Inc. in 1991.  Mr.  Enrico  served as Chairman and Chief
Executive  Officer of PepsiCo  Worldwide Foods from 1992 to 1994 and as Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Worldwide Restaurants from 1994 to 1997.

Steven S  Reinemund,  51, is our  President  and Chief  Operating  Officer.  Mr.
Reinemund was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer in September 1999.
He began his career with PepsiCo as Senior Operating  Officer of Pizza Hut, Inc.
(a former  subsidiary  of the Company) in 1984.  He became  President  and Chief
Executive  Officer  of Pizza Hut in 1986,  and  President  and  Chief  Executive
Officer of Pizza Hut Worldwide in 1991. In 1992, Mr.  Reinemund became President
and Chief Executive Officer of Frito-Lay. He became Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of the Frito-Lay Company in 1996.

Matthew M. McKenna, 49, is our Senior Vice President and Treasurer.  Previously,
he was Senior Vice  President,  Taxes.  Prior to joining PepsiCo in 1993 as Vice
President, Taxes, he was a partner with the law firm Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam &
Roberts in New York.

Lionel L. Nowell III, 46, is our Senior Vice President and Controller.  Prior to
joining PepsiCo, he was Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development
for RJR Nabisco, Inc. From 1991 to 1998, he served as Chief Financial Officer of
Pillsbury North America, and its Pillsbury Foodservice and Haagen Dazs units. He
also served as Vice  President and  Controller of the  Pillsbury  Company,  Vice
President  of Food and  International  Retailing  Audit and Director of Internal
Audit.

Indra K. Nooyi,  44, is our Senior Vice President and Chief  Financial  Officer.
She joined  PepsiCo in 1994 as Senior Vice  President,  Corporate  Strategy  and
Development.  Prior  to  joining  PepsiCo,  she was  Senior  Vice  President  of
Strategy,  Planning and Strategic  Markets for Asea Brown  Boveri.  She was also
Vice President and Director of Corporate Strategy and Planning at Motorola.

Robert F. Sharpe, Jr., 48, is our Senior Vice President, Public Affairs, General
Counsel,  and  Secretary.  He joined  PepsiCo in  January,  1998 as Senior  Vice
President,  General Counsel and Secretary.  Mr. Sharpe was Senior Vice President
and General  Counsel of RJR Nabisco  Holdings Corp. from 1996 until 1998. He was
previously Vice President,  Tyco  International  Ltd. from 1994 to 1996 and Vice
President, Assistant General Counsel and Secretary of RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp.
and RJR Nabisco, Inc. from 1989 to 1994.





Karl M. von der Heyden, 63, is our Vice Chairman of the Board. He also served as
Chief  Financial  Officer  from  September  1996 until March 1998.  He served as
President  and Chief  Executive  Officer of  Metallgesellshaft  Corp.  from 1993
through 1994 and was Chairman  and Chief  Executive  Officer of RJR Nabisco from
March through May 1993 and Chief Financial Officer from 1989 to 1993.

         Executive officers are elected by the Company's Board of Directors, and
their terms of office  continue  until the next  annual  meeting of the Board or
until  their  successors  are elected  and have  qualified.  There are no family
relationships among the Company's executive officers.

         The  name,  age  and  background  of each  of the  Company's  directors
nominated for election are contained  under the caption  "Election of Directors"
in the Company's Proxy Statement for its 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and
are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.   Executive Compensation

         Information on  compensation  of the Company's  directors and executive
officers is  contained  in the  Company's  Proxy  Statement  for its 2000 Annual
Meeting  of  Shareholders  under  the  captions  "Directors   Compensation"  and
"Executive Compensation", respectively, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

         Information   on  the  number  of  shares  of  PepsiCo   Capital  Stock
beneficially owned by each director and by all directors and officers as a group
is contained  under the caption  "Ownership  of Capital  Stock by Directors  and
Executive Officers" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its 2000 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders and is incorporated  herein by reference.  As far as is known to
the Company,  no person beneficially owns more than 5% of the outstanding shares
of PepsiCo Capital Stock.

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         Not applicable.

                                     PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule and Reports on Form 8-K

         (a)      1.       Financial Statements

                              See Index to Financial Information on page F-2.

                  2.       Exhibits

                              See Index to Exhibits on page E-1.

         (b)      Reports on Form 8-K

                           None.




S-2


                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934,  PepsiCo  has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated:  March 21, 2000


                                            PepsiCo, Inc.


                                    By:     __________________________
                                            Roger A. Enrico
                                            Chairman of the Board and
                                            Chief Executive Officer

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of PepsiCo
and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


SIGNATURE                              TITLE                           DATE


/S/ ROGER A. ENRICO                Chairman of the Board and      March 21, 2000
Roger A. Enrico                    Chief Executive Officer

/S/INDRA K. NOOYI                  Senior Vice President          March 21, 2000
Indra K. Nooyi                     Chief Financial Officer

/S/ LIONEL L. NOWELL III           Senior Vice President and      March 21, 2000
Lionel L. Nowell III               Controller (Principal
                                   Accounting Officer)

/S/ KARL M. VON DER HEYDEN         Vice Chairman of the Board     March 21, 2000
Karl M. von der Heyden

/S/JOHN F. AKERS                   Director                       March 21, 2000
John F. Akers

/S/ ROBERT E. ALLEN                Director                       March 21, 2000
Robert E. Allen

/S/ PETER FOY                      Director                       March 21, 2000
Peter Foy

/S/ RAY L. HUNT                    Director                       March 21, 2000
Ray L. Hunt


                                      S-1



/S/ ARTHUR C. MARTINEZ            Director                        March 21, 2000
Arthur C. Martinez

/S/ JOHN J. MURPHY                Director                        March 21, 2000
John J. Murphy

/S/ FRANKLIN D. RAINES            Director                        March 21, 2000
Franklin D. Raines

/S/ STEVEN S REINEMUND            President and Chief             March 21, 2000
Steven S Reinemund                Operating Officer and
                                  Director

/S/ SHARON PERCY ROCKEFELLER      Director                        March 21, 2000
Sharon Percy Rockefeller

/S/ FRANKLIN A. THOMAS            Director                        March 21, 2000
Franklin A. Thomas

/S/ P. ROY VAGELOS                Director                        March 21, 2000
P. Roy Vagelos

/S/ ARNOLD R. WEBER               Director                        March 21, 2000
Arnold R. Weber

                                      S-2


                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                  ITEM 14(a)(3)
EXHIBIT

3.1       Restated Articles of Incorporation of PepsiCo, Inc., which is
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to PepsiCo's
          Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
          June 15, 1996.

3.2       By-Laws of PepsiCo, Inc., as amended March 16, 2000.

4         PepsiCo,  Inc. agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
          Commission, upon request, a copy of any  instrument  defining
          the rights of holders of long-term  debt of  PepsiCo,  Inc.
          and all of its  subsidiaries  for which onsolidated or
          unconsolidated financial  statements  are required to be filed
          with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

10.1      Description  of  PepsiCo,   Inc.  1988  Director   Stock  Plan,
          which  is incorporated  herein by  reference  to  Post-Effective
          Amendment  No. 2 to PepsiCo's Registration Statement on Form S-8
          (Registration No. 33-22970).

10.2      PepsiCo, Inc. 1987 Incentive Plan (the "1987  Plan"), as amended
          and restated, effective as of October 1, 1999.

10.3      Operating  Guideline No. 1 under the 1987 Plan, as amended through
          July 25, 1991, which is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)
          to PepsiCo's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          December 28, 1991.

10.4      Operating Guideline No. 2 under the 1987 Plan and the Plan, as
          amended through January 22, 1987, which is incorporated herein
          by reference to Exhibit 28(b) to PepsiCo's Registration Statement
          on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-19539).

10.6      PepsiCo, Inc. 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated,
          effective as of October 1, 1999.

10.7      PepsiCo, Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, which is
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit B to PepsiCo's Proxy
          Statement for its 1994 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

10.8      Amended and Restated PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program
          which is incorporated  herein by reference to PepsiCo's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1997.

10.9      Restated PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan, which is incorporated
          herein by reference to PepsiCo's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the fiscal year ended December 27, 1997.

12        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

21        Subsidiaries of PepsiCo, Inc.


                                      E-1



23        Report and Consent of KPMG LLP.

24.1      Power of  Attorney  executed  by Roger A.  Enrico,  Lionel  L.
          Nowell III, Indra K. Nooyi, , John F. Akers,  Robert E. Allen,
          Peter Foy, Ray L. Hunt,  Arthur C.  Martinez,  John J. Murphy,
          Franklin  D.   Raines,   Steve  S   Reinemund,   Sharon  Percy
          Rockerfeller,  Franklin A. Thomas, P. Roy Vagelos, Karl M. von
          der Heyden and Arnold R. Weber.

24.2      Power of Attorney executed by Cynthia M. Trudell.

24.3      Power of Attorney executed by Solomon D. Trujillo.

27        Financial Data Schedule.


                                      E-2


                              PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                                   FINANCIAL INFORMATION



                        FOR INCLUSION IN ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



                            FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 25, 1999




















                               PEPSICO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                               INDEX TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION
                                       Item 14(a)(1)




All  other  financial  statements  and  schedules  have been  omitted  since the
required information is not applicable or is included in Item 14(a)(1) Financial
Statements.



                                            F-2





Consolidated Statement of Income
(in millions except per share amounts)
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended December 25, 1999, December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                            F-3





Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
(in millions)
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended December 25, 1999, December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997

(Continued on following page)

                                            F-4





Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
(in millions)
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended December 25, 1999, December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                            F-5





Consolidated Balance Sheet
(in millions except per share amount)
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                            F-6





Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity
(in millions)
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended December 25, 1999, December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997

(Continued on following page)

                                            F-7


Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity
(in millions)
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended December 25, 1999, December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                            F-8


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(tabular  dollars  in  millions  except  per share  amounts;  all per share
amounts  assume dilution)

Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

The  preparation of the  consolidated  financial  statements in conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets,  liabilities,  revenues,
expenses and  disclosure of contingent  assets and  liabilities.  Actual results
could differ from these estimates.

Items Affecting Comparability

Certain  reclassifications  were made to the 1998 and 1997 amounts to conform to
the 1999 presentation, particularly the segment reclassifications resulting from
the 1999  reorganization of our Pepsi-Cola  business  described in Note 18. As a
result of the 1999 bottling  transactions  described in Note 2, certain bottling
operations  that were  previously  consolidated  are now accounted for under the
equity method.  Therefore,  the consolidated  financial statements subsequent to
the bottling  transactions  are not  comparable  to the  consolidated  financial
statements  presented  for prior  periods.  In addition,  the third quarter 1998
acquisition of Tropicana described in Note 3 affects comparability.

Principles of Consolidation

The financial statements include the consolidated  accounts of PepsiCo, Inc. and
its controlled  affiliates.  Intercompany  balances and  transactions  have been
eliminated.  Investments in  unconsolidated  affiliates,  over which we exercise
significant influence,  but not control, are accounted for by the equity method.
Accordingly,  our  share  of the net  income  or  loss  of  such  unconsolidated
affiliates is included in consolidated net income.

Issuances of Subsidiary Stock

The issuance of stock by one of our  subsidiaries  to third parties  reduces our
proportionate ownership interest in the subsidiary.  Unless the issuance of such
stock is part of a broader  corporate  reorganization,  we  recognize  a gain or
loss,  equal to the  difference  between  the  issuance  price per share and our
carrying  amount  per  share.  Such gain or loss,  net of the  related  tax,  is
recognized in consolidated net income when the transaction occurs.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize  revenue  when  products are  delivered to  customers.  Sales terms
generally do not allow a right to return.

Marketing Costs

Marketing costs are reported in selling, general and administrative expenses and
include  costs  of  advertising  and  other  marketing  activities.  Advertising
expenses  were $1.8  billion in 1999,  $1.9  billion in 1998 and $1.8 billion in
1997.  Deferred  advertising  expense,  classified  as prepaid  expenses  in the
Consolidated  Balance  Sheet,  was $30  million in 1999 and $34 million in 1998.
Deferred advertising  costs are expensed in the year first used and consist of:
o media and personal service prepayments,
o promotional materials in inventory, and
o production costs of future media advertising.
                                            F-9





Stock-Based Compensation

We measure  stock-based  compensation  cost as the  excess of the quoted  market
price of PepsiCo  Capital  Stock at the grant date over the amount the  employee
must pay for the stock (exercise price).  Our policy is to generally grant stock
options with an exercise price equal to the stock price at the date of grant and
accordingly,  no compensation cost is recognized.  Under our incentive programs,
compensation  cost for  performance  share units  granted and for cash  payments
expected to be paid to employees in lieu of stock  options is based on the grant
date value and recognized over the vesting period of the award.

Derivative Instruments

The  interest  differential  to be paid or received on an interest  rate swap is
recognized as an adjustment to interest expense as the differential  occurs.  If
an interest rate swap position were to be terminated,  the gain or loss realized
upon  termination  would be deferred and amortized to interest  expense over the
remaining  term of the  underlying  debt  instrument  it was intended to modify.
However, if the underlying debt instrument were to be settled prior to maturity,
the gain or loss realized upon termination would be recognized immediately.

The  differential  to be paid or received on a currency swap related to non-U.S.
dollar  denominated  debt  is  charged  or  credited  to  selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses as the differential occurs. This is fully offset by the
corresponding  gain or loss recognized on the currency  translation of the debt,
as  both  amounts  are  based  upon  the  same  exchange  rates.   The  currency
differential  not yet settled in cash is reflected in the  Consolidated  Balance
Sheet under the appropriate current or noncurrent receivable or payable caption.
If a currency swap position were to be terminated prior to maturity, the gain or
loss  realized  upon  termination  would be  immediately  recognized in selling,
general and administrative expenses.

Gains and losses on futures  contracts  designated as hedges of future commodity
purchases are deferred in the  Consolidated  Balance Sheet under the appropriate
current  asset or  liability  caption  and  included  in the cost of the  hedged
commodity when  purchased.  Changes in the value of such contracts used to hedge
commodity  purchases  are highly  correlated  to the changes in the value of the
purchased  commodity.  Subsequent  changes in the value of such  contracts  that
cease to be highly  correlated or changes in the value of futures  contracts not
designated  as hedges would be  recognized  in cost of sales  immediately.  If a
futures contract  designated as a hedge were to be terminated,  the gain or loss
realized upon termination  would be included in the cost of the hedged commodity
when purchased.

Prepaid  forward  contracts  for the  purchase  of  PepsiCo  Capital  Stock  are
reflected in the Consolidated  Balance Sheet at fair value as a prepaid expense.
Changes in fair value of these contracts are recognized as interest expense.

The cash flows related to the above derivative instruments are classified in the
Consolidated  Statement of Cash Flows in a manner  consistent  with those of the
transactions being hedged.

Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents  represent funds temporarily  invested with original maturities
of  three  months  or  less.  All  other  investment  portfolios  are  primarily
classified as short-term investments.

Inventories

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (computed on the average,  first-in,
first-out or last-in, first-out method) or net realizable value.
                                            F-10





Property, Plant and Equipment

Property,  plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is calculated on
a straight-line  basis.  Buildings and  improvements  are depreciated over their
estimated  useful lives,  generally  ranging from 20 to 50 years.  Machinery and
equipment  (including  fleet) are depreciated over their estimated useful lives,
generally ranging from 2 to 10 years.

Intangible Assets

Goodwill,  the excess of our investments in  unconsolidated  affiliates over our
equity in the underlying assets of these investments,  and reacquired  franchise
rights are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives,
generally  ranging  from  20 to 40  years.  Trademarks  and  other  identifiable
intangibles are amortized on a straight-line  basis over their estimated  useful
lives, generally ranging from 20 to 40 years.

Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets to be Held and Used in the Business

All  long-lived  assets,  including  goodwill,   investments  in  unconsolidated
affiliates and other identifiable  intangibles,  are evaluated for impairment on
the basis of undiscounted cash flows whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate  that the  carrying  amount  of an  asset  may not be  recoverable.  An
impaired  asset is written down to its estimated  fair market value based on the
best information available. Estimated fair market value is generally measured by
discounting  estimated future cash flows.  Considerable  management  judgment is
necessary to estimate discounted future cash flows.

The  depreciation or amortization  periods for long-lived  assets to be held and
used are  periodically  evaluated to determine  whether events or  circumstances
have occurred that warrant revision.

Accounting Changes

As of December 28, 1997, we adopted  Statement of Position 98-1,  Accounting for
the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use, issued by
The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants in March 1998. The amount
capitalized under the SOP was $52 million in 1999 and $42 million in 1998.

In June 1998,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued  Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and Hedging  Activities.  SFAS 133, as amended by SFAS 137, is effective for our
fiscal year  beginning  2001.  SFAS 133  establishes  accounting  and  reporting
standards for derivative  instruments,  including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other  contracts,  and for hedging  activities.  It requires that we
recognize all  derivative  instruments  as either assets or  liabilities  in the
Consolidated  Balance Sheet and measure those  instruments at fair value. We are
currently  assessing  the effects of adopting  SFAS 133, and have not yet made a
determination  of the impact  adoption will have on our  consolidated  financial
statements.

Note 2 - Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates

Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates

In 1998, our Board of Directors  approved a plan for the separation from PepsiCo
of certain  wholly-owned  bottling  businesses  located  in the  United  States,
Canada, Spain, Greece and Russia, referred to as The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG).
On April 6, 1999, PBG completed the sale of 100 million shares of its


                                            F-11





common stock at $23 per share  through an initial  public  offering with PepsiCo
retaining a direct noncontrolling  ownership interest of 35.5%. During the first
quarter,  we received $5.5 billion of debt proceeds obtained by PBG primarily as
settlement  of  pre-existing  intercompany  amounts due to us. We  recognized  a
pre-tax gain of $1.0 billion ($476 million  after-tax or $0.32 per share) in the
second quarter.

On May 20, 1999,  we combined  certain  bottling  operations  in the  midwestern
United States and Central Europe (PBO) with the Whitman Corporation,  a publicly
traded  corporation,  to  create  new  Whitman.  We  retained  a  noncontrolling
ownership interest of approximately 38% in new Whitman. The transaction resulted
in an after-tax loss to PepsiCo of $206 million or $0.14 per share.

On July 10, 1999, we formed a business venture with PepCom  Industries,  Inc., a
Pepsi-Cola franchisee,  combining bottling businesses in parts of North Carolina
and New York.  PepCom  contributed  bottling  operations  in central and eastern
North Carolina and in Long Island,  New York to the venture.  We contributed our
bottling operations in Winston-Salem and Wilmington,  North Carolina in exchange
for a  noncontrolling  interest in the venture,  Pepsi Bottling  Venture LLC, of
35%.  The  transaction  was  accounted  for as a  nonmonetary  exchange for book
purposes.  A portion of the transaction was taxable which resulted in income tax
expense of $25 million or $0.02 per share.

On October 15,  1999,  we formed a business  venture  with Pohlad  Companies,  a
Pepsi-Cola franchisee, combining bottling businesses in Puerto Rico and parts of
the southeastern and midwestern United States.  Pohlad Companies contributed its
interests in Dakota Beverage  Company,  Delta Beverage Group,  Inc.  (Delta) and
Pepsi-Cola  Puerto Rico Bottling  Company (PPR). We contributed our interests in
Delta and PPR as well as 2.2 million shares of PepsiCo Capital Stock in exchange
for a 33%  noncontrolling  interest  in the  venture.  As a  result,  we  have a
noncontrolling   ownership  interest  of  approximately  24%  in  the  venture's
principal  operating   subsidiary,   PepsiAmericas,   Inc.,  a  publicly  traded
corporation. The Pohlad transaction was structured as a fair value exchange with
no resulting gain or loss.

Pepsi Bottling Group

The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. is the world's largest manufacturer,  distributor
and seller of carbonated and  non-carbonated  Pepsi-Cola  beverages and operates
under master bottling  agreements with us. In addition to  approximately  37% of
PBG's  outstanding  common  stock that we now own,  we own 100% of PBG's class B
common stock and  approximately  7% of the equity of Bottling Group,  LLC, PBG's
principal   operating   subsidiary.   This  gives  us  economic   ownership   of
approximately  40% of PBG's combined  operations.  We account for our investment
using the equity method.


                                            F-12









Based  upon the  quoted  closing  price of PBG  shares  at  year-end  1999,  the
calculated  market  value  of  our  direct  investment  in  PBG,  excluding  our
investment in Bottling Group, LLC, was approximately $887 million.

Whitman

Whitman  manufactures,  distributes  and  sells  carbonated  and  non-carbonated
Pepsi-Cola  beverages and operates under master bottling  agreements with us. We
now own approximately 40% of Whitman common stock and account for our investment
using the equity method.





Comparable prior year information for Whitman is not available.

The excess of our  investment  in new Whitman over our equity in the  underlying
net assets,  net of  amortization,  was  approximately  $234 million at year-end
1999.  Based upon the quoted  closing price of Whitman  shares at year-end 1999,
the calculated market value of our investment in Whitman was approximately  $740
million.
                                            F-13





Other Equity Investments

Summarized  financial  information,  in the  aggregate,  regarding our principal
equity  investments,  other  than  PBG  and  Whitman,  follows.  Information  is
presented in the aggregate and generally from the acquisition date.





Related Party Transactions


Our  significant   related  party   transactions   involve  our  investments  in
unconsolidated bottling affiliates. We sell concentrate to these affiliates that
is  used  in  the  production  of  carbonated  soft  drinks  and  non-carbonated
beverages.  They purchase sweeteners and certain other raw materials through us.
The raw  material  purchases  on behalf of these  bottling  affiliates,  related
payments to suppliers and collections from the bottlers are not reflected in our
consolidated  financial statements.  We also provide certain  administrative and
other services to these bottling affiliates under negotiated fee arrangements.

Further, because we share a business objective with these bottling affiliates of
increasing the availability and consumption of Pepsi-Cola beverages,  we provide
various  forms of  marketing  support  to or on  behalf of them to  promote  our
beverages.  This support covers a variety of initiatives,  including marketplace
support,  marketing  programs,  capital  equipment  investment  and shared media
expense.  Based on the  objective  of the programs  and  initiatives,  we record
marketing  support as an adjustment  to net revenues or as selling,  general and
administrative expense.

These transactions with our unconsolidated  bottling affiliates are reflected in
the Consolidated Statement of Income as follows:


As of December 25, 1999, the receivables from these bottling  affiliates are $93
million and  payables to these  affiliates  are $131  million.  Such amounts are
settled in terms  consistent with other trade  receivable and payable terms. See
Note 13 regarding our guarantee of PBG related debt.


                                            F-14





Note 3 - Acquisitions

During 1999, we made  acquisitions,  primarily  investments in various  bottlers
including  investments  in  unconsolidated  affiliates,  which  aggregated  $430
million in cash.

During 1998, we completed the acquisitions of Tropicana Products,  Inc. from The
Seagram Company Ltd. for $3.3 billion in cash and The Smith's Snackfoods Company
(TSSC) in Australia from United Biscuits  Holdings plc for $270 million in cash.
In  addition  during  1998,   acquisitions  and  investments  in  unconsolidated
affiliates  included the remaining  ownership  interest in various  bottlers and
purchases  of  various  other   international   salty  snack  food   businesses.
Acquisitions for 1998 aggregated $4.5 billion in cash.

The  results  of  operations  of  acquisitions  are  generally  included  in the
consolidated  financial  statements from their  respective dates of acquisition.
The  acquisitions  were  accounted for under the purchase  method.  The purchase
prices  have been  allocated  based on the  estimated  fair  value of the assets
acquired  and  liabilities  assumed.  The excess  purchase  prices over the fair
values of the net assets acquired of approximately $310 million in 1999 and $3.2
billion in 1998 were allocated to goodwill.

Unaudited Tropicana Pro Forma

The following table presents the unaudited pro forma combined results of PepsiCo
and Tropicana as if the  acquisition had occurred at the beginning of our fiscal
years 1998 and 1997. The aggregate impact of other acquisitions in these periods
was not  material to our net sales,  income or income per share from  continuing
operations.



The pro forma amounts include the  amortization of the goodwill arising from the
allocation  of the  purchase  price and  interest  expense on the debt issued to
finance the purchase.  The pro forma  information  does not necessarily  present
what the combined  results would have been for these periods and is not intended
to be indicative of future results.



                                            F-15





Note 4 - Asset Impairment and Restructuring



The 1999 asset impairment and restructuring  charge of $65 million recognized in
the first  quarter  relates to the  closure of three  plants and  impairment  of
equipment  at  Frito-Lay  North  America.  This charge was the second phase of a
productivity  improvement plan developed in the fourth quarter of 1998. The plan
included the consolidation of U.S. production to newer and more efficient plants
and streamlining logistics and transportation systems.


                                            F-16





The asset  impairment  charges  primarily  reflect the reduction in the carrying
value of the land and  buildings to their  estimated  fair market value based on
current selling prices for comparable  real estate,  less costs to sell, and the
write off of the net book value of  equipment  which cannot be  redeployed.  The
plant  closures were  completed  during 1999.  The majority of these assets were
either  disposed  of or  abandoned  in 1999.  The  restructuring  charges of $28
million primarily  included  severance costs for approximately 860 employees and
plant closing costs. Substantially all of the terminations occurred during 1999.


The 1998  asset  impairment  and  restructuring  charges  of $288  million  were
comprised of the following:

o  A  charge  of $218  million  for  asset  impairment  of $200  million  and
   restructuring  charges  of  $18  million  related  to  our  Russian  bottling
   operations.  The economic turmoil in Russia which accompanied the August 1998
   devaluation of the ruble adversely impacted our operations.  Consequently, we
   experienced  a significant  drop in demand,  resulting in lower net sales and
   increased  operating  losses.  Also,  since net bottling sales in Russia were
   denominated in rubles, whereas a substantial portion of our related costs and
   expenses were denominated in U.S.  dollars,  bottling  operating margins were
   further  eroded.  In  response  to  these  conditions,  we  reduced  our cost
   structure primarily through closing facilities,  renegotiating  manufacturing
   contracts  and  reducing  the  number of  employees.  We also  evaluated  our
   long-lived  bottling  assets for  impairment,  triggered by the  reduction in
   utilization  of assets caused by the lower demand,  the adverse change in the
   business  climate and the expected  continuation of operating losses and cash
   deficits in that market.  The impairment charge reduced the net book value of
   the assets to their  estimated fair market value,  based primarily on amounts
   recently paid for similar assets in that marketplace.  Of the total charge of
   $218 million, $212 million related to bottling operations that became part of
   PBG in 1999 (see Note 2).

o  An impairment  charge of $54 million related to  manufacturing  equipment at
   Frito-Lay North America.  As part of our annual assessment of marketing plans
   and related capacity requirements  at  Frito-Lay  North  America and the
   development of a program to improve manufacturing productivity, we determined
   that certain product specific equipment would not be utilized and certain
   capital projects would be terminated to avoid  production redundancies.  The
   charge primarily  reflected the write off of the net book value of the
   equipment and related  projects.  Disposal or abandonment of these assets was
   completed in 1999.

o  A charge  of $16  million  for  employee  related  costs  resulting  from the
   separation   of  Pepsi-Cola   North   America's   concentrate   and  bottling
   organizations  to more  effectively  serve  retail  customers in light of the
   conversion  of PBG to public  ownership  (see Note 2).  Of this  amount,  $10
   million related to bottling operations that became part of PBG in 1999.

The employee related costs for 1998 of $24 million primarily  included severance
and relocation costs for  approximately  2,700 employees  located in the Russian
bottling plants and at Pepsi-Cola  North America field  locations.  During 1998,
approximately 2,600 of the terminations occurred most of which were terminations
of part-time  employees with little associated cost. The remaining  terminations
either  occurred in 1999 or related to the bottling  operations that became part
of PBG in 1999.

                                            F-17






The 1997  asset  impairment  and  restructuring  charges  of $290  million  were
comprised of the following:

o  Net  charges of $183 million  in  several of our  business  segments  for net
   asset impairment  of  $150  million  related  to  the  planned   disposal  of
   assets and for restructuring charges of $33 million.  The impairment  charges
   were taken as a result of decisions  to  dispose  of  certain   company-owned
   bottling  operations  and  non-core international  businesses,  to dispose of
   certain  assets to improve the  utilization  of facilities and to reduce
   occupancy costs and to exit certain bottling joint ventures.  The  impairment
   charges reduced the net book value of these assets to their  estimated fair
   market value,  generally based on estimates  developed  internally or, if
   available, amounts paid for similar assets, less costs to sell. The disposals
   occurred in 1997 and 1998 and in connection with the separation of certain
   company-owned  bottling operations (see Note 2). The restructuring  charges
   primarily  related to the  reorganization of an international company-owned
   bottling operation.

o  Charges of $94 million for asset impairment of $48 million and  restructuring
   charges of $46 million  related  to  productivity  initiatives  in  worldwide
   snacks.  These initiatives  included  closing plants, eliminating  production
   lines and  consolidating distribution  facilities.  The resulting impairment
   charges were recognized primarily for assets held for disposal or abandonment
   and  reduced  the net book value of impaired assets to their  estimated  fair
   market  value,  generally  based on estimates  developed internally  or, if
   available, amounts  paid for  similar  assets, less  costs to sell.  Disposal
   or  abandonment of these assets was  substantially  completed  in 1997,  with
   a significant portion of the remainder completed in 1998 as planned.

o  Net  charges of $13 million  for net asset  impairment  of $2 million and net
   restructuring  charges of $11 million  related to actions to  strengthen  our
   international  bottling  structure.  Restructuring  charges  of  $98  million
   consisted  of third  party  termination  payments  related  to  refranchising
   bottling  operations and our  investments in bottling joint  ventures.  These
   charges were substantially offset by an arbitration settlement of $87 million
   which  we  were  awarded  as a  result  of the  termination  of the  bottling
   appointment with our previous Venezuelan bottler.

The employee related costs for 1997 of $55 million primarily  included severance
and relocation  costs for  approximately  2,100 employees  primarily  located in
international  plants and  distribution  centers.  During 1997,  terminations of
approximately   1,100  employees  occurred  and,  in  1998,   approximately  500
terminations  occurred. As a result of the successful  redeployment of employees
to other  locations,  approximately  500  terminations  did not occur as planned
which resulted in a change of estimate in 1998.

                                            F-18






The  restructuring  reserves are included in accounts  payable and other current
liabilities in the  Consolidated  Balance Sheet. At year-end 1999, the remaining
liability   for   restructuring   charges   associated   with   investments   in
unconsolidated  affiliates  was  $10  million  related  to  indemnifications  of
litigation liabilities.

The remaining carrying amounts of assets held for disposal were $6 million as of
December  25,  1999,  $13 million as of December  26, 1998 and $60 million as of
December  27,  1997.  During  1998 and 1997,  the net sales  from  international
bottling  business  units held for disposal  were $202 million and $590 million,
respectively. Such businesses generated operating profits of $20 million in 1998
and $42 million in 1997. Our investments in  unconsolidated  affiliates held for
disposal  provided  break-even  results in 1999 and losses of $2 million in 1998
and $5 million in 1997.

Note 5 - Discontinued Operations

The restaurants segment was composed of the core restaurant  businesses of Pizza
Hut,  Taco Bell and  Kentucky  Fried  Chicken,  PepsiCo Food  Systems  (PFS),  a
restaurant  distribution   operation,   and  several  non-core  U.S.  restaurant
businesses.  In 1997, we spun off the restaurant  businesses to our shareholders
as an  independent  publicly  traded  company  (Distribution).  The spin-off was
effective as a tax-free  Distribution  on October 6, 1997  (Distribution  Date).
Owners of PepsiCo  Capital  Stock as of September 19, 1997 received one share of
common stock of Tricon Global Restaurants,  Inc., the new company,  for every 10
shares of PepsiCo Capital Stock.  Immediately  before the Distribution  Date, we
received  $4.5 billion in cash from Tricon as  repayment of certain  amounts due
and a dividend. PFS and the non-core U.S. restaurant businesses were sold before
the Distribution Date resulting in after-tax cash proceeds of approximately $1.0
billion.


                                            F-19





The above amounts include costs directly associated with the spin-off but do not
include an allocation of our interest or general and administrative expenses.

Note 6 - Income Per Share

We present two income per share measures,  basic and assuming  dilution,  on the
face of the  Consolidated  Statement of Income.  "Basic" income per share equals
net income  divided by weighted  average  common shares  outstanding  during the
period.  Income per share "assuming  dilution"  equals net income divided by the
sum of weighted average common shares  outstanding during the period plus common
stock equivalents, such as stock options.

The  following  reconciles  shares  outstanding  at the beginning of the year to
average shares outstanding:


Diluted earnings per share excludes  incremental shares of 48.9 million in 1999,
31.1  million in 1998 and .2 million in 1997 related to employee  stock  options
due to their antidilutive effect.

Note 7 - Accounts and Notes Receivable, net


Other  additions  include  acquisitions  and  reclassifications  and  deductions
include  the  impact of the  bottling  transactions,  accounts  written  off and
currency translation effects.


                                           F-20






Note 8 - Inventories


The cost of approximately 9% of 1999 inventories and  approximately  36% of 1998
inventories was computed using the last-in, first-out method.

Note 9 - Property, Plant and Equipment, net



Depreciation  expense was $759  million in 1999,  $968  million in 1998 and $881
million in 1997.  At December 25, 1999,  property,  plant and  equipment  with a
total net book value of $93 million  were  pledged as  collateral  for  mortgage
loans.


Note 10 - Intangible Assets, net


Identifiable   intangible  assets  possess  economic  value  but  lack  physical
substance.  These assets  primarily arise from the allocation of purchase prices
of businesses  acquired.  Amounts assigned to such identifiable  intangibles are
based on independent  appraisals or internal estimates.  Goodwill represents the
excess purchase price after allocation to all identifiable net assets.

The above amounts are presented net of accumulated  amortization of $640 million
at year-end 1999 and $1.9 billion at year-end 1998.

Note 11 - Accounts Payable and Other Current Liabilities


                                            F-21






Note 12 - Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt


The weighted  average  interest  rates in the above table include the effects of
associated interest rate and currency swaps at year-end 1999 and 1998. Also, see
Note 13 for a discussion  of our use of interest  rate and currency  swaps,  our
management  of the inherent  credit risk and fair value  information  related to
debt and interest rate and currency swaps.

Interest Rate Swaps

The following table indicates the notional amount and weighted  average interest
rates,  by category,  of interest  rate swaps  outstanding  at year-end 1999 and
1998.  The  weighted  average  variable  interest  rates that we pay,  which are
primarily  linked to either  commercial paper or LIBOR rates, are based on rates
as of the respective balance sheet date and are subject to change.



The terms of the  interest  rate swaps match the terms of the debt they  modify.
The  swaps   terminate  at  various  dates  through  2013.  At  year-end   1999,
approximately  67% of  total  debt,  including  the  effects  of the  associated
interest rate swaps, was exposed to variable interest rates,  compared to 83% in
1998. In addition to variable rate long-term  debt, all debt with  maturities of
less than one year is categorized as variable for purposes of this measure.

Currency Swaps

We enter into currency swaps to hedge our currency  exposure on certain non-U.S.
dollar  denominated  debt upon issuance of such debt.  The terms of the currency
swaps match the terms of the debt they modify.  The currency swaps  terminate at
various dates through 2001.

                                            F-22





At year-end  1999,  the aggregate  carrying  amount of the debt was $244 million
denominated  in Swiss francs,  Luxembourg  francs and  Australian  dollars.  The
payables  under  related  currency  swaps  were  $62  million,  resulting  in an
effective U.S. dollar liability of $306 million with a weighted average interest
rate of 6.3%, including the effects of related interest rate swaps.

At year-end  1998,  the aggregate  carrying  amount of the debt was $678 million
denominated  in Japanese yen,  Swiss francs,  Luxembourg  francs and  Australian
dollars.  The  receivables  and payables  under related  currency  swaps were $1
million and $70 million, respectively,  resulting in a net effective U.S. dollar
liability  of $747  million  with a  weighted  average  interest  rate of  5.3%,
including the effects of related interest rate swaps.

Revolving Credit Facilities

As of year-end 1999, we maintained a $600 million facility expiring in June 2000
and a $900 million facility expiring in June 2004. These credit facilities exist
largely to support  issuances of short-term debt and remained unused at year-end
1999. At expiration,  these  facilities can be extended an additional  year upon
the mutual consent of PepsiCo and the lending institutions. These facilities are
subject to normal banking terms and conditions.

The current reclassification of short-term borrowings to long-term debt reflects
our intent and ability,  through the existence of the unused credit  facilities,
to refinance these borrowings on a long-term basis.

Long-term debt  outstanding at December 25, 1999,  matures as follows during the
next five years:



Note 13 - Financial Instruments

Derivative Financial Instruments

Our policy prohibits the use of derivative financial instruments for speculative
purposes and we have  procedures  in place to monitor and control their use. The
following  discussion  excludes  futures  contracts  used to hedge our commodity
purchases.

Our use of derivative  financial  instruments  is primarily  limited to interest
rate and currency swaps, which are used to reduce borrowing costs by effectively
modifying the interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. These swaps
are entered into concurrently with the issuance of the debt they are intended to
modify.  The notional  amount,  interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps
match the  principal,  interest  payment and maturity dates of the related debt.
Accordingly, any market risk or opportunity associated with these swaps is fully
offset by the  opposite  market  impact on the  related  debt.  Our credit  risk
related to interest rate and currency swaps is considered low because such swaps
are entered into only with strong  creditworthy  counterparties,  are  generally
settled on a net basis and are of relatively short duration.  Further,  there is
no significant  concentration with counterparties.  See Note 12 for the notional
amounts, related interest rates and maturities of the interest rate and currency
swaps.

At  year-end   1999,  we  have  equity   derivative   contracts  with  financial
institutions  in the  notional  amount of $52  million.  These  prepaid  forward
contracts hedge a portion of our deferred compensation  liability which is based
on  PepsiCo's  stock price.  During 1999,  the change in the fair value of these
contracts resulted in $6 million of expense.


                                            F-23





Fair Value



The above carrying amounts are included in the Consolidated  Balance Sheet under
the indicated  captions,  except for combined  currency and interest rate swaps,
which are included in the appropriate  current or noncurrent  asset or liability
caption.  Short-term  investments  consist primarily of debt securities and have
been classified as  held-to-maturity.  Prepaid forward  contracts are classified
within prepaid expenses.

Because of the short maturity of cash  equivalents  and short-term  investments,
the  carrying  amounts  approximate  fair  values.  The fair  values of debt and
debt-related  derivative  instruments  were  estimated  using market  quotes and
calculations  based on market rates.  We have  unconditionally  guaranteed  $2.3
billion of Bottling Group,  LLC's long-term debt. The guarantee has a fair value
of $64 million based on market rates.

Note 14 - Income Taxes




                                            F-24






Reconciliation  of the U.S. Federal statutory tax rate to our effective tax rate
on continuing operations:



In 1998, we reached final  agreement  with the IRS to settle  substantially  all
remaining aspects of a tax case related to our concentrate  operations in Puerto
Rico. As a result,  we recognized a tax benefit  totaling $494 million (or $0.32
per share) which reduced our 1998 provision for income taxes.

Deferred taxes are recorded to give recognition to temporary differences between
the tax  bases of assets  or  liabilities  and  their  reported  amounts  in the
financial statements. We record the tax effect of these temporary differences as
deferred tax assets or deferred tax  liabilities.  Deferred tax assets generally
represent  items that can be used as a tax  deduction or credit in future years.
Deferred  tax  liabilities  generally  represent  items that we have taken a tax
deduction  for,  but have not yet  recorded  in the  Consolidated  Statement  of
Income.


                                            F-25







Deferred tax liabilities are not recognized for temporary differences related to
investments in foreign  subsidiaries and in  unconsolidated  foreign  affiliates
that are  essentially  permanent in  duration.  It would not be  practicable  to
determine the amount of any such deferred tax liabilities.

Valuation  allowances  have been  established for deferred tax assets related to
net operating  losses in certain state and foreign tax  jurisdictions  where the
amount of expected  future taxable income from  operations  does not support the
recognition of these deferred tax assets.



Other  deductions  include the impact of the bottling  transactions and currency
translation effects.

Net operating losses of $2.7 billion for year-end 1999 are being carried forward
and are available to reduce future taxable income of certain  subsidiaries  in a
number of foreign  and state  jurisdictions.  These net  operating  losses  will
expire as follows:  $.1 billion in 2000,  $2.3  billion  between  2001 and 2015,
while $.3 billion may be carried forward indefinitely.


                                            F-26





Note 15 - Employee Stock Options

Stock  options have been granted to employees  under three  different  incentive
plans:
o the  SharePower  Stock  Option  Plan  (SharePower),
o the  Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and
o the Stock Option Incentive Plan (SOIP).

SharePower

SharePower  stock options are granted to  essentially  all full-time  employees.
SharePower options generally have a 10 year term.  Beginning in 1998, the number
of SharePower  options granted is based on each  employee's  annual earnings and
tenure and generally become  exercisable  after three years.  Prior to 1998, the
number of options  granted  was based on each  employee's  annual  earnings  and
generally became exercisable ratably over five years.

SOIP and LTIP Since 1998

Beginning in 1998, all executive  (including middle  management) awards are made
under the LTIP. Under the LTIP, an executive  generally  receives an award based
on a multiple of base salary.  Two-thirds of the award consists of stock options
with an  exercise  price  equal to the  average  stock  price on the date of the
award.  These options generally become exercisable at the end of three years and
have a 10 year term. At the date of the award, the executive selects whether the
remaining  one-third  of the award will be  granted in stock  options or paid in
cash at the end of three  years.  The  number  of  options  granted  or the cash
payment,  if any, will depend on the attainment of prescribed  performance goals
over the three year measurement  period. If the executive chooses stock options,
they are granted with an exercise  price equal to the average stock price on the
date of the grant,  vest  immediately  and have a 10 year term. If the executive
chooses a cash  payment,  one  dollar of cash will be  received  for every  four
dollars of the award.  Amounts  expensed for expected  cash  payments were $17.9
million in 1999 and $7 million in 1998.  At year-end  1999,  135 million  shares
were available for grants under the LTIP.

SOIP and LTIP Prior to 1998

Prior to 1998, SOIP options were granted to middle management employees and were
exercisable  after one year.  LTIP  options  were  granted to senior  management
employees and were generally  exercisable  after four years.  Both SOIP and LTIP
options have 10 year terms. Certain LTIP options could be exchanged by employees
for a specified  number of performance  share units (PSUs) within 60 days of the
grant  date.  The value of a PSU was fixed at the stock  price at the grant date
and the PSU was  payable  four  years  from  the  grant  date,  contingent  upon
attainment of prescribed  performance  goals.  At year-end 1999,  1998 and 1997,
there were 68,000, 84,000 and 801,000 PSUs outstanding, respectively. Payment of
PSUs is made in cash and/or in stock as approved by the  Compensation  Committee
of our Board of Directors.  Amounts  expensed for PSUs were $.3 million in 1999,
$1 million in 1998 and $4 million in 1997.


                                            F-27






(a)  Effective  on the date of the Tricon  spin-off,  unvested  PepsiCo  Capital
     Stock  options  held by Tricon  employees  were  converted  to Tricon stock
     options.
(b)  Immediately  following the spin-off,  the number of options were  increased
     and exercise  prices were  decreased (the  "modification")  to preserve the
     economic value of those options that existed just prior to the spin-off for
     the holders of PepsiCo Capital Stock options.
(c)  In  connection  with  the  bottling  transactions   discussed  in  Note  2,
     substantially all non-vested PepsiCo Capital Stock options held by bottling
     employees vested. The acceleration resulted in a $46 million pre-tax charge
     included in the determination of the related net gain.



                                            F-28





Pro  forma  income  and  pro  forma  income  per  share,  as if we had  recorded
compensation expense based on fair value for stock-based awards:


The pro  forma  amounts  disclosed  above are not  fully  representative  of the
effects of stock-based awards because,  except for the impact resulting from the
bottling transactions and Tricon modification, the amounts exclude the pro forma
cost related to the unvested stock options granted before 1995.

The fair value of the options granted  (including the modification) is estimated
using the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model based on the following  weighted
average assumptions:



                                            F-29





Note 16 - Pension and Postretirement Benefits

In 1998,  we  adopted  the  revised  disclosure  requirements  of  Statement  of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 132, Employers'  Disclosures about Pensions
and Other  Postretirement  Benefits.  SFAS 132  standardized  the disclosures of
pensions and other  postretirement  benefits into a combined  format but did not
change  the  accounting  for  these  benefits.  Information  for  1997  has been
reclassified to conform to the revised disclosure
format.

Pension Benefits

Our pension plans cover  substantially all full-time U.S.  employees and certain
international  employees.  Benefits  depend on years of service and earnings are
based on stated amounts for each year of service.

Postretirement Benefits

Our postretirement plans provide medical and life insurance benefits principally
to U.S.  retirees and their  dependents.  Employees are eligible for benefits if
they meet age and service requirements and qualify for retirement benefits.





Prior  service  costs are  amortized on a  straight-line  basis over the average
remaining service period of employees expected to receive benefits.

                                            F-30









As a result of the  bottling  transactions  described in Note 2, $717 million of
pension benefit obligation and $205 million of postretirement benefit obligation
were assumed by bottling  affiliates.  In  addition,  bottling  affiliate  plans
assumed  ownership  of $659  million  of  pension  assets.  The net  gain on the
bottling transactions includes a curtailment/settlement net loss of $52 million.

Selected  information for plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of
plan assets:



                                           F-31










The  discount  rate  assumptions  used to  compute  the  postretirement  benefit
obligation at year end were 7.75% in 1999 and 6.9% in 1998.

Components of Pension Assets

The pension plan assets are principally  stocks and bonds.  These assets include
approximately  6.5 million shares of PepsiCo  Capital Stock with a fair value of
$198 million in 1999 and 10.1  million  shares with a fair value of $298 million
in 1998. To maintain diversification, .5 million shares of PepsiCo Capital Stock
were sold in 1999 and 1.6 million shares were sold in 1998. In addition in 1999,
PBG pension plans  assumed  ownership of 3.1 million  shares of PepsiCo  Capital
Stock with a fair value of $95 million.

Health Care Cost Trend Rates

An  average  increase  of 6.1% in the  cost of  covered  postretirement  medical
benefits is assumed for 2000 for employees who retire without cost sharing. This
average  increase is then  projected  to decline  gradually  to 5.5% in 2005 and
thereafter.

An  average  increase  of 6.0% in the  cost of  covered  postretirement  medical
benefits is assumed for 2000 for employees  who retire with cost  sharing.  This
average  increase is then  projected  to decline  gradually  to zero in 2005 and
thereafter.


                                            F-32





Assumed  health care cost trend rates have a  significant  effect on the amounts
reported for  postretirement  medical plans.  A one  percentage  point change in
assumed health care costs would have the following effects:


Note 17 - Commitments, Contingencies and Leases

We are subject to various claims and contingencies  related to lawsuits,  taxes,
environmental  and other  matters  arising out of the normal course of business.
Contingent   liabilities  primarily  reflect  guarantees  to  support  financial
arrangements of certain unconsolidated  affiliates,  including the unconditional
guarantee for $2.3 billion of Bottling  Group,  LLC's long-term debt. We believe
that the ultimate  liability,  if any, in excess of amounts  already  recognized
arising  from such  claims or  contingencies  is not  likely to have a  material
adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.

We have  noncancelable  commitments  under both capital and long-term  operating
leases, primarily for warehouses, distribution centers and office space. Capital
and  operating  lease  commitments  expire at various dates through 2022 and, in
many cases, provide for renewal options.  Most leases require payment of related
executory costs, which include property taxes, maintenance and insurance.



Capitalized leases, included as property, plant and equipment,  were $13 million
in 1999 and $46 million in 1998.  The related  accumulated  amortization  was $7
million  in 1999  and $25  million  in 1998.  Amortization  expense  related  to
capitalized  leases was $1 million in 1999, $6 million in 1998 and $6 million in
1997.




Note 18 - Business Segments

In 1998, we adopted Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 131,
Disclosures about Segments of a Business  Enterprise  and Related  Information,
which is based on management reporting.  In early 1999, in  contemplation of the
separation from PepsiCo of our bottling operations, we completed a
                                            F-33





reorganization  of our Pepsi-Cola  business.  Accordingly,  our 1999  disclosure
presents  operating  results  consistent  with the new Pepsi-Cola  organization.
Prior years' amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1999 presentation.
Therefore,  the results in 1997,  1998 and through  the  applicable  transaction
closing dates in 1999 of consolidated bottling operations in which we now own an
equity  interest are presented  separately with the 1997, 1998 and first quarter
1999 equity income or loss of other unconsolidated bottling affiliates. From the
applicable  transaction  closing  dates  in 1999,  the  equity  income  of those
previously  consolidated  bottling  operations  and the equity income or loss of
other  unconsolidated  bottling  affiliates  for the  second,  third and  fourth
quarters  of  1999  are  presented  separately  below  operating  profit  in the
Condensed  Consolidated  Statement of Income.  The combined  results of our five
reportable segments are referred to as new PepsiCo.

The North American segments include the United States and Canada.  The Tropicana
segment  includes its  international  results.  Pepsi-Cola North America results
include the North  American  concentrate  and  fountain  businesses.  Pepsi-Cola
International  results  include  the  international   concentrate  business  and
consolidated international bottling operations.

The accounting  policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note
1. All  intersegment  net  sales  and  expenses  are  immaterial  and have  been
eliminated in computing net sales and operating profit.

Frito-Lay North America

Frito-Lay  North  America  manufactures,  markets,  distributes  and sells salty
snacks.  Products  manufactured  and sold in North  America  include  Lay's  and
Ruffles brand potato chips,  Doritos and Tostitos brand tortilla  chips,  Fritos
brand  corn  chips,  Cheetos  brand  cheese  flavored  snacks,  Rold Gold  brand
pretzels, Cracker Jack brand candy-coated popcorn, Grandma's brand cookies and a
variety of branded  dips and  salsas.  Low-fat  and no-fat  versions  of several
brands are also manufactured and sold in North America.

Frito-Lay International

Frito-Lay International manufactures,  markets,  distributes and sells salty and
sweet snacks.  Products include Walkers brand snack foods in the United Kingdom,
Smith's  brand snack foods in Australia,  Sabritas  brand snack foods and Alegro
and Gamesa  brand  sweet  snacks in Mexico.  Many of our U.S.  brands  have been
introduced internationally such as Lay's and Ruffles brand potato chips, Doritos
and Tostitos  brand  tortilla  chips,  Fritos brand corn chips and Cheetos brand
cheese flavored snacks.

Principal  international  system-wide snack markets include  Australia,  Brazil,
Mexico, the Netherlands, South Africa, Spain and the United Kingdom.

Pepsi-Cola North America

Pepsi-Cola North America  manufactures  concentrates of Pepsi-Cola,  Diet Pepsi,
Pepsi One, Mountain Dew and other brands for sale to franchised  bottlers.  PCNA
markets and promotes its brands. PCNA also manufactures, markets and distributes
ready-to-drink  tea and coffee  products  through joint ventures with Lipton and
Starbucks and licenses the processing, distribution and sale of Aquafina bottled
water.

Pepsi-Cola International

Pepsi-Cola International  manufactures  concentrates of Pepsi-Cola,  Diet Pepsi,
Mountain Dew, 7UP, Diet 7UP, Mirinda, Pepsi Max and other brands internationally
for sale to franchised bottlers and company-


                                            F-34





owned  bottlers.  PCI operates  bottling plants and  distribution  facilities in
various  international  markets  for the  production,  distribution  and sale of
company-owned  and  licensed  brands.   PCI  markets  and  promotes  its  brands
internationally.

Principal  international  system-wide markets include Argentina,  Brazil, China,
India,  Mexico, the Philippines,  Saudi Arabia,  Spain,  Thailand and the United
Kingdom.

Tropicana

Tropicana produces,  markets,  distributes and sells its juices internationally.
Products include Tropicana Pure Premium,  Season's Best, Tropicana Twister, Dole
and Tropicana  Pure Tropics brand juices  primarily  sold in the United  States.
Many of these  products  are  distributed  and sold in Canada and brands such as
Fruvita, Looza and Copella are available in Europe.

Principal international markets include Belgium, Canada, France and the United
Kingdom.

Impairment and Restructuring Charges By Segment



See Note 4 for details on the above asset impairment and restructuring charges.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS




                                            F-35





BUSINESS SEGMENTS (continued)




                                            F-36





BUSINESS SEGMENTS (continued)


                                            F-37





BUSINESS SEGMENTS (continued)



(a) Includes asset impairment and restructuring charges on page F-35.
(b) Includes unallocated  corporate headquarters expenses and costs of centrally
    managed  insurance   programs,   minority   interests  and  foreign exchange
    translation and transaction gains and losses.
(c) Corporate   assets  consist   principally  of  cash and  cash   equivalents,
    short-term  investments  primarily  held  outside the U.S. and  property and
    equipment.
(d) Represents  the  noncash  portion of asset  impairment  and  restructuring
    charges. See Note 4.
(e) 1999  includes $18.2 million for our share of a gain recorded by PBG related
    to accrual  and  reserve  adjustments and $9.6  million  for our share of an
    unusual charge recorded by Whitman related to  discontinued  operations.  In
    1997,  FLI  included a gain of $22 million related to the sale of a non-core
    investment.
(f) Represents  net property,  plant and equipment,  net  intangible  assets and
    investments in unconsolidated affiliates.


                                            F-38





Note 19 - Selected Quarterly Financial Data




                                            F-39





(a) First  through  third  quarter of 1998  excludes  the  operating  results of
    Tropicana which was acquired in August of 1998.
(b) 1999 includes the operating  results of deconsolidated  bottling  operations
    through their respective closing dates (see Note 2).
(c) Asset impairment and restructuring charges (see Note 4):



(d) Second  quarter 1999 gain on bottling  transactions  of $1.0  billion  ($270
    million  after-tax  or  $0.18  per  share)  relates  to the PBG and  Whitman
    bottling transactions (see Note 2).
(e) Includes,  in 1999, in addition to $270 million associated with the bottling
    transactions  described  in (d) above,  a tax  provision  of $25 million (or
    $0.02 per share) in the third quarter related to the PepCom transaction.  In
    1998,  includes  tax  benefits  of $200  million (or $0.13 per share) in the
    third  quarter and $294  million (or $0.19 per share) in the fourth  quarter
    related to the settlement of a tax case (see Note 14).
(f) Represents  the  composite  high,  low and closing  prices for one share of
    PepsiCo's Capital Stock.
                                            F-40





Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements

To Our Shareholders:

Management is  responsible  for the  reliability of the  consolidated  financial
statements  and  related  notes.  The  financial  statements  were  prepared  in
conformity  with generally  accepted  accounting  principles and include amounts
based upon our estimates and assumptions,  as required. The financial statements
have been  audited by our  independent  auditors,  KPMG LLP, who were given free
access to all  financial  records and  related  data,  including  minutes of the
meetings of the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board.  We believe that
our representations to the independent auditors are valid and appropriate.

Management   maintains  a  system  of  internal  controls  designed  to  provide
reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the financial statements,  as well
as to  safeguard  assets from  unauthorized  use or  disposition.  The system is
supported by formal policies and procedures, including an active Code of Conduct
program intended to ensure employees adhere to the highest standards of personal
and professional integrity.  Our internal audit function monitors and reports on
the adequacy of and compliance with the internal control system, and appropriate
actions  are  taken  to  address  significant  control  deficiencies  and  other
opportunities  for  improving  the  system  as they are  identified.  The  Audit
Committee of the Board of  Directors  consists  solely of directors  who are not
salaried  employees and who are, in the opinion of the Board of Directors,  free
from any  relationship  that would  interfere  with the exercise of  independent
judgment as a committee member. The Committee meets several times each year with
representatives  of management,  including internal auditors and the independent
accountants  to review our  financial  reporting  process  and our  controls  to
safeguard assets. Both our independent  auditors and internal auditors have free
access to the Audit Committee.

Although no cost-effective  internal control system will preclude all errors and
irregularities,  we  believe  our  controls  as of  December  25,  1999  provide
reasonable  assurance  that the financial  statements  are reliable and that our
assets are reasonably safeguarded.




                                            F-41





                               Report of Independent Auditors

Board of Directors and Shareholders
PepsiCo, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of PepsiCo, Inc. and
Subsidiaries  as of  December  25,  1999 and  December  26, 1998 and the related
consolidated  statements of income, cash flows and shareholders' equity for each
of  the  years  in  the  three-year   period  ended  December  25,  1999.  These
consolidated  financial  statements are the  responsibility  of PepsiCo,  Inc.'s
management.  Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects,  the financial  position of PepsiCo,  Inc. and
Subsidiaries  as of December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998,  and the results of
their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the years in the  three-year
period ended December 25, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



KPMG LLP
New York, New York
February 9, 2000







Selected Financial Data



As a result of the  deconsolidation of PBG and other bottling operations in 1999
and the  Tropicana  acquisition  late in 1998,  the data  provided  above is not
comparable (see Note 1).

In 1997, we disposed of our  restaurants  segment and accounted for the disposal
as discontinued  operations (see Note 5). Accordingly,  all information has been
restated for the years 1997 and prior.  Per share amounts  reflect a two-for-one
stock split in 1996.

(a) Includes a net gain on bottling transactions in 1999 of $1.0 billion ($270
    million  after-tax or $0.18 per share) and a tax provision  related to the
    PepCom transaction of $25 million ($0.02 per share).
(b) Includes asset  impairment and  restructuring  charges of $65 million ($40
    million  after-tax or $0.03 per share) in 1999, $288 million ($261 million
    after-tax  or  $0.17  per  share)  in 1998,  $290  million  ($239  million
    after-tax  or $0.15 per  share)  in 1997 and $576  million  ($527  million
    after-tax or $0.33 per share) in 1996 (see Note 4).
(c) Includes a tax benefit of $494  million (or $0.32 per share) (see Note 14).
(d) Includes the initial,  noncash charge of $66 million ($64 million  after-tax
    or $0.04 per share) upon  adoption in 1995 of Statement of Financial
    Accounting  Standards No. 121,  Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
    Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of.
(e) Includes net assets of discontinued operations in 1996 and 1995.




                                            F-43


