
10-K405
KEYCORP     10-K405



 
                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
               [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
 
                                       OR
 
             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO
                          COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-850
 
                                  KEYCORP LOGO
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                                      OHIO
                          ---------------------------
                        (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF
                         INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)
 
                       127 PUBLIC SQUARE, CLEVELAND, OHIO
                    ---------------------------------------
                    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)
 
                                   34-6542451
                                ----------------
                                (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
                              IDENTIFICATION NO.)
 
                                   44114-1306
                                ----------------
                                   (ZIP CODE)
 
                                 (216) 689-6300
                 ----------------------------------------------
              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
 

 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
 
                                    Yes [X]
                                     No [ ]
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]
 
The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $15,369,321,827 at February 28, 1998. (The
aggregate market value has been computed using the closing market price of the
stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on February 28, 1998.)
 
                                  438,731,756
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 (NUMBER OF KEYCORP COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1998, ADJUSTED
FOR A TWO-FOR-ONE STOCK SPLIT IN THE FORM OF A 100% STOCK DIVIDEND EFFECTIVE AS
                               OF MARCH 6, 1998)
 
Certain specifically designated portions of KeyCorp's 1997 Annual Report to
Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV of this Form
10-K. Certain specifically designated portions of KeyCorp's definitive Proxy
Statement for its 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.

 
                                    KEYCORP
 
                          1997 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
 
                                


 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
OVERVIEW
 
KeyCorp (also referred to herein as the "Corporation") is a legal entity
separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the
right of KeyCorp, its security holders and its creditors to participate in any
distribution of the assets or earnings of its banking and other subsidiaries is
necessarily subject to the prior claims of the respective creditors of such
banking and other subsidiaries, except to the extent that claims of the
Corporation in its capacity as creditor of such banking and other subsidiaries
may be recognized.
 
KeyCorp, organized in 1958 under the laws of the state of Ohio and registered
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, is headquartered in
Cleveland, Ohio, and is engaged primarily in the business of commercial and
retail banking. At December 31, 1997, it was one of the nation's largest bank
holding companies with consolidated total assets of approximately $73.7 billion.
Its subsidiaries provide a wide range of banking, equipment leasing, fiduciary
and other financial services to its corporate, individual and institutional
customers through four businesses: Key Corporate Capital, Key Consumer Finance,
Key Community Bank and Key Capital Partners. These services are provided across
much of the country through subsidiaries operating more than 1,000 full-service
banking offices in 13 states, a 24-hour telephone banking call center services
group and more than 1,900 automated teller machines ("ATMs") as of December 31,
1997. The Corporation and its subsidiaries had approximately 24,595 full-time
equivalent employees as of December 31, 1997.
 
In addition to the customary banking services of accepting deposits and making
loans, the bank and trust company subsidiaries provide specialized services,
including personal and corporate trust services, personal financial services,
customer access to mutual funds, cash management services, investment banking
services and international banking services. Through its subsidiary banks, trust
companies and registered investment adviser subsidiaries, KeyCorp provides
investment management services to institutional and individual clients,
including large corporate and public retirement plans, Taft-Hartley plans,
foundations and endowments, and high net worth individuals. In addition,
investment management subsidiaries serve as investment advisers to KeyCorp's
proprietary mutual funds.
 
KeyCorp provides other financial services both inside and outside of its primary
banking markets through its nonbank subsidiaries. These services include
accident and health insurance on loans made by subsidiary banks, venture
capital, community development financing, securities underwriting and brokerage,
automobile financing and other financial services. KeyCorp is an equity
participant in joint ventures with a number of other unaffiliated companies in
Electronic Payment Services, Inc., which operates ATMs throughout the country,
Integrion Financial Network, L.L.C., which is building a platform for electronic
banking, and Key Merchant Services, L.L.C., which provides merchant services to
businesses.
 

 
The following financial data is included in the Financial Review section of
KeyCorp's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference as indicated below:
 

 
The executive offices of KeyCorp are located at 127 Public Square, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114-1306, and its telephone number is (216) 689-6300.
 
MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
 
The information presented in Note 3, "Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures,"
beginning on page 63 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1997 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
 
COMPETITION
 
The market for banking and related financial services is highly competitive.
KeyCorp and its subsidiaries ("Key") compete with other providers of financial
services, such as other bank holding companies, commercial banks, savings
associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies,
mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment
banking firms, broker-dealers and a growing list of other local, regional and
national institutions which offer financial services. Key competes by offering
quality products and innovative services at competitive prices.
 
In recent years, mergers between financial institutions have added competitive
pressure to Key's core banking services. In addition, competition is expected to
intensify as a consequence of interstate banking and branching laws now in
effect which permit banking organizations to expand geographically. See
"Supervision and Regulation -- Interstate Banking and Other Recent Legislative
and Regulatory Initiatives" herein.
 
SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
 
The following discussion addresses certain of the material elements of the
regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their
subsidiaries, and provides certain specific information regarding Key.
Regulation of financial institutions, such as Key, is intended primarily for the
protection of depositors, the deposit insurance funds of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") and the banking system as a whole, and generally
is not intended for the protection of shareholders or other investors.
 
In the following discussion, references to statutes and regulations are brief
summaries thereof and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full
text of such statutes and regulations. In addition, there are other statutes and
regulations not described below that apply to the operation of banking
institutions. Changes in the applicable laws, and in their application by
regulatory agencies, cannot necessarily be predicted, but they may have a
material effect on the business and results of Key.
 

 
General
 
As a bank holding company, KeyCorp is subject to the regulation, supervision and
examination of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
"Federal Reserve Board") under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended
(the "BHCA"). Under the BHCA, bank holding companies may not, in general,
directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of the
voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of any company, including a
bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, bank
holding companies are generally prohibited under the BHCA from engaging in
commercial or industrial activities.
 
The Corporation's banking subsidiaries are also subject to extensive regulation,
supervision and examination by applicable Federal banking agencies. In the first
quarter of 1997, KeyCorp converted all of its state-chartered bank subsidiaries
into separate, full-service national bank subsidiaries, and all of its
state-chartered trust company subsidiaries, except Society Trust Company of New
York, into separate, national bank subsidiaries limited to fiduciary activities.
All of these national banks, Key Bank USA, National Association ("KeyBank USA"),
and their subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC"). The Corporation's
KeyTrust Company, National Associations headquartered in Wyoming and Washington
are also subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. In the second
quarter of 1997, all of the Corporation's full-service national banks, other
than KeyBank National Association in Wyoming (which was sold in the third
quarter of 1997), KeyBank USA, and KeyBank National Association in New Hampshire
merged into KeyBank National Association headquartered in Ohio. Society Trust
Company of New York is a state-chartered trust company subsidiary subject to
regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and banking authorities in the State of
New York. Because the deposits in all of the Corporation's full-service banking
subsidiaries are insured (up to applicable limits) by the FDIC, the FDIC also
has certain regulatory and supervisory authority over all such banking
subsidiaries.
 
The Corporation also has other financial services subsidiaries that are subject
to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, as well
as other applicable state and Federal regulatory agencies. For example, the
Corporation's brokerage and asset management subsidiaries are subject to
supervision and regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and state securities
regulators, and the Corporation's insurance subsidiaries are subject to
regulation by the insurance regulatory authorities of the various states. Other
nonbank subsidiaries of the Corporation are subject to other laws and
regulations of both the Federal government and the various states in which they
are authorized to do business.
 
Dividend Restrictions
 
The principal source of cash flow to the Corporation, including cash flow to pay
dividends on the Corporation's common shares and debt service on the
Corporation's debt, is dividends from its banking and other subsidiaries.
Various statutory and regulatory provisions limit the amount of dividends that
may be paid to the Corporation by its banking subsidiaries without regulatory
approval.
 
The approval of the OCC is required for the payment of any dividend by a
national bank if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors
of such bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of: (i) the bank's net
income for the current year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and
interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required
transfer to surplus or a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock. In
addition, a national bank can pay dividends only to the extent of its undivided
profits. All of the Corporation's banking subsidiaries and trust company
subsidiaries, with the exception of Society Trust Company of New York, are
national banks and are subject to these restrictions.
 
In addition, if, in the opinion of a Federal banking agency, a depository
institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an
unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the
institution, could include the payment of dividends) the agency may require,
after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and desist from such
practice. The OCC and the FDIC have indicated that paying dividends that would
deplete a depository institution's capital base to an inadequate level would be
an unsafe and unsound practice. Moreover, under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (the "FDI Act"), an insured depository institution

 
may not pay any dividend if payment would cause it to become less than
"adequately capitalized." See "Regulatory Capital Standards and Related
Matters--Prompt Corrective Action." The FDI Act also prohibits the payment of
any dividend while the institution is in default in the payment of any
assessment due to the FDIC. Also, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the
FDIC have issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository
institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out
of their current operating earnings.
 
Holding Company Structure
 
Transactions Involving Banking Subsidiaries.  The Corporation's banking
subsidiaries are subject to Federal Reserve Act restrictions which limit the
amount of funds or other items of value that can be transferred from such
subsidiaries to either the Corporation and (with certain exceptions) the
Corporation's nonbanking subsidiaries. Any such loans or extensions of credit
are required to be secured in specified amounts.
 
Source of Strength Doctrine.  Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding
company is expected to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to
each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit
resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required by
the Federal Reserve Board at times when the Corporation may not have the
resources to provide it, or, for other reasons, would not otherwise be inclined
to provide it. Certain loans by a bank holding company to a subsidiary bank are
subordinate in right of payment to deposits in, and certain other indebtedness
of, the subsidiary bank. In addition, the Crime Control Act of 1990 provides
that in the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, any commitment by a
bank holding company to a Federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital
of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a
priority of payment.
 
Depositor Preference.  The FDI Act provides that, in the event of the
"liquidation or other resolution" of an insured depository institution, the
claims of depositors of such institution (including claims by the FDIC as
subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses
of the FDIC as a receiver would be afforded a priority over other general
unsecured claims against such an institution, including Federal funds and
letters of credit. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and
uninsured depositors along with the FDIC will be placed ahead of unsecured,
nondeposit creditors, including a parent holding company, in order of priority
of payment.
 
Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.  Under the FDI Act, an insured
depository institution which is under common control with another insured
depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably
anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of such
commonly controlled institution, or any assistance provided by the FDIC to such
commonly controlled institution which is in danger of default. The term
"default" is defined generally to mean the appointment of a conservator or
receiver and the term "in danger of default" is defined generally as the
existence of certain conditions indicating that a "default" is likely to occur
in the absence of regulatory assistance.
 
Regulatory Capital Standards and Related Matters
 
Regulatory Capital.  Applicable law and regulation define and prescribe certain
minimum quantitative levels of regulatory capital for bank holding companies and
their banking subsidiaries, and identify other factors that can affect the
overall evaluation of the adequacy of such organizations' regulatory capital.
Adequacy of regulatory capital is assessed periodically by the Federal banking
agencies in the examination and supervision process, and in the evaluation of
applications in connection with specific transactions and activities, including
acquisitions, expansion of existing activities and commencement of new
activities.
 
Bank holding companies are subject to risk-based capital guidelines adopted by
the Federal Reserve Board. These guidelines establish minimum ratios of
qualifying capital to risk-weighted assets. Qualifying capital includes Tier 1
capital and Tier 2 capital. Risk-weighted assets are calculated by assigning
risk-weights of 0, 20, 50, and 100% to broad categories of assets and
off-balance-sheet exposures, based primarily on counterparty credit risk. The
required minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1
capital by risk-weighted assets, is currently 4%. The required minimum total
risk-based capital ratio is currently 8%. It is calculated by dividing the
 

 
sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital not in excess of Tier 1 capital, after
deductions for investments in certain subsidiaries and associated companies and
for reciprocal holdings of capital instruments, by risk-weighted assets.
 
Tier 1 capital may consist of common stockholders' equity (including common
stock, related surplus and retained earnings), qualifying noncumulative
perpetual preferred stock (including related surplus), a limited amount of
qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock (including related surplus), and
minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries less
certain intangible assets (including goodwill) and certain portions of deferred
tax assets. Tier 2 capital may consist of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual
debt, mandatory convertible debt securities, other qualifying perpetual
preferred stock (including related surplus), and limited amounts of term
subordinated debt, medium-term preferred stock (including related surplus), and
the allowance for loan and lease losses.
 
In 1997, the Federal Reserve Board adopted amendments to its risk-based capital
guidelines requiring a bank holding company having securities trading activity
above a threshold amount to measure and hold capital against its exposure to
general market risk associated with changes in interest rates, equity prices,
exchange rates and commodity prices, as well as for exposure to specific risk
associated with equity positions and certain debt positions in its trading
portfolio including event and default risk. This capital charge, which may be
supported, in part, by Tier 3 capital, is required to be incorporated into the
computation of the risk-based capital ratios. Tier 3 capital includes certain
types of unsecured subordinated debt. Mandatory compliance with these amendments
begins January 1, 1998. At December 31, 1997, Key's Tier 1 and total capital to
risk-weighted assets ratios were 6.65% and 10.83%, respectively, and would not
have been required to be adjusted for market risk had mandatory compliance with
the market risk amendments been required in 1997.
 
The risk-based capital guidelines also address factors beyond counterparty
credit risk which can affect the overall evaluation of the adequacy of
regulatory capital. These factors include interest rate risk in non-trading
activities, concentrations of credit risk and risks associated with
nontraditional activities, as well as management's ability to monitor and
control these risks. No standardized explicit risk-based capital charges with
respect to these factors have been adopted by the Federal Reserve Board.
 
In addition to the risk-based standard, bank holding companies are subject to
the Federal Reserve Board's leverage ratio guidelines. These guidelines
establish minimum ratios of Tier 1 capital to total assets. The minimum Tier 1
capital leverage ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by average total
consolidated assets is 3% for bank holding companies that have the highest
supervisory rating. All other bank holding companies must maintain a minimum
leverage ratio of at least 4% to 5%. Neither Key nor any of its banking
affiliates has been advised by its primary Federal banking regulator of any
specific leverage ratio applicable to it. At December 31, 1997, Key's Tier 1
capital leverage ratio was 6.40%.
 
The Corporation's banking subsidiaries are also subject to risk-based and
leverage capital requirements adopted by the OCC which are substantially similar
to those imposed by the Federal Reserve Board on bank holding companies. At
December 31, 1997, each of the Corporation's banking subsidiaries had regulatory
capital in excess of all minimum risk-based and leverage capital requirements.
 
During 1997, the Federal banking agencies jointly published a number of proposed
amendments to their risk-based and leverage capital guidelines. One proposal
would amend the Tier 1 capital leverage ratio guidelines so that the most highly
rated insured depository institutions and bank holding companies would be
subject to a minimum 3% Tier 1 capital leverage ratio, with all others being
subject to a minimum 4% Tier 1 capital leverage ratio. Other proposals would
amend the risk-based capital guidelines to: (i) include as Tier 2 capital a
limited amount of unrealized gains on certain available-for-sale equity
securities, (ii) address the treatment of recourse obligations and direct credit
substitutes by using credit ratings to match the risk-based capital assessment
more closely to relative risk of loss in certain asset securitizations, and
(iii) make uniform the risk-based capital treatment regarding construction loans
on presold residential properties, real estate loans secured by junior liens on
1-4 family residential property, and investments in mutual funds. Lastly, the
Federal banking agencies have proposed to amend the risk-based and leverage
capital guidelines to address the treatment of servicing financial assets, both
mortgage and non-mortgage. By December 31, 1997, the Federal banking agencies
had not acted upon any of these proposals.
 

 
Prompt Corrective Action.  The "prompt corrective action" provisions of the FDI
Act added by the FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA") create a statutory
framework that applies a system of both discretionary and mandatory supervisory
actions indexed to the capital level of FDIC-insured depository institutions.
These provisions impose progressively more restrictive constraints on
operations, management and capital distributions of the institution as its
regulatory capital decreases, or in some cases, based on supervisory information
other than the institution's capital level. This framework and the authority it
confers on the Federal banking agencies supplements other existing authority
vested in such agencies to initiate supervisory actions to address capital
deficiencies. Moreover, other provisions of law and regulation employ regulatory
capital level designations the same as or similar to those established by the
prompt corrective action provisions both in imposing certain restrictions and
limitations and in conferring certain economic and other benefits upon
institutions. These include restrictions on brokered deposits, FDIC deposit
insurance limits on pass-through deposits, limits on exposure to interbank
liabilities, risk-based FDIC deposit insurance premium assessments and expedited
action upon regulatory applications.
 
FDIC-insured depository institutions are grouped into one of five prompt
corrective action capital categories -- "well capitalized," "adequately
capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" and
"critically undercapitalized"--using the Tier 1 risk-based, total risk-based,
and Tier 1 leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital measures. To be well
capitalized, the institution must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at
least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and a Tier 1
leverage capital ratio of at least 5% and not be subject to any written
agreement, order or capital directive to meet and maintain a specific capital
level for any capital measure. An adequately capitalized institution must have a
total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
of at least 4% or greater and a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 4% (3%
if the institution has achieved the highest composite rating in its most recent
examination) and not be well capitalized. At December 31, 1997, each KeyCorp
insured depository institution subsidiary met the requirements for the "well
capitalized" capital category. An institution's prompt corrective action capital
category, however, may not constitute an accurate representation of the overall
financial condition or prospects of the Corporation or its banking subsidiaries,
and should be considered in conjunction with other available information
regarding Key's financial condition and results of operations.
 
FDIC DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND FINANCING CORPORATION BOND ASSESSMENTS
 
Under the FDIC's risk-related insurance assessment system, all insured
depository institutions are required to pay annual assessments to the Bank
Insurance Fund (the "BIF") or the Savings Association Insurance Fund (the
"SAIF") of the FDIC. The assessments are based on the institution's risk
classification which, in turn, is based on an assignment of the institution by
the FDIC to one of three capital groups and to one of three supervisory
subgroups. The capital groups are "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized"
and "undercapitalized." The three supervisory subgroups are Group "A" (for
financially solid institutions with only a few minor weaknesses), Group "B" (for
those institutions with weaknesses which, if uncorrected, could cause
substantial deterioration of the institution and increase the risk to the
deposit insurance fund) and Group "C" (for those institutions with a substantial
probability of loss to the insurance fund, absent effective corrective action).
Based on their risk classifications, the Corporation's banking subsidiaries paid
no FDIC deposit insurance premiums during 1997.
 
With the enactment of the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 ("Funds Act") all
BIF-insured institutions became required to join with SAIF-insured institutions
in servicing the 30 year bonds issued by the Financing Corporation ("FICO") in
the late 1980s to fund losses incurred by the former Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation. The Funds Act established the FICO assessment as separate
from and in addition to deposit insurance assessments. The statute requires that
the assessment rate for BIF assessable deposits be 1/5 of the assessment rate
for SAIF assessable deposits. For the first half of 1997, the annualized FICO
assessment rates were set at $.0648 per $100 of SAIF-assessable deposits and
$.0130 per $100 of BIF-assessable deposits. Because of growth in the combined
assessment bases, the annualized FICO assessment rates for the second half of
1997 declined slightly, to $.0630 per $100 of SAIF-assessable deposits and
$.0126 per $100 of BIF-assessable deposits. The 1997 FICO assessment expense to
the Corporation's FDIC-insured banking subsidiaries was approximately $6
million.
 

 
INTERSTATE BANKING AND OTHER RECENT LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY INITIATIVES
 
Interstate Banking
 
On September 29, 1994, the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching
Efficiency Act of 1994 (the "Interstate Act") was enacted into Federal law.
Under the Interstate Act, commencing on September 29, 1995, bank holding
companies generally were permitted to acquire banks located in any state
regardless of the state law in effect at the time. The Interstate Act also
provides for the nationwide interstate branching of banks. Under the Interstate
Act, in general, both national and state-chartered banks are permitted to merge
across state lines (and thereby establish interstate branches) commencing on
June 1, 1997. States were permitted to "opt-out" of the interstate branching
authority by taking action prior to the commencement date. States were also
permitted to "opt-in" early (i.e., prior to June 1, 1997) to the interstate
branching provisions. All states in which the Corporation has banking
subsidiaries have "opted in" to the interstate branching provisions. As a
result, the Corporation consolidated all of its bank subsidiaries (other than
KeyBank USA and KeyBank National Association in New Hampshire) into one national
banking institution in mid-1997. The Corporation continues to evaluate its
business opportunities with respect to its trust company subsidiaries, and plans
for consolidating these subsidiaries are not yet final.
 
Recent Financial Modernization Proposed Legislation
 
During 1997, both the U.S. House of Representatives ("House") Committee on
Banking and Financial Services and the House Commerce Committee approved and
reported to the House Floor different versions of financial modernization
legislation proposing to establish a comprehensive framework to permit
affiliations among securities firms, insurance companies, commercial banks and,
subject to certain limitations, commercial enterprises. Allowing such
affiliations would enhance customer choice in the financial services
marketplace, eliminate anti-competitive regulatory disparities among financial
services providers and increase competition among providers of financial
services. Both versions, however, address numerous controversial issues for
which no consensus has yet been reached by Congress or within the banking
industry. Among the most important of these issues are: to what extent financial
services activities should be permitted to be conducted by an insured depository
institution versus a bank holding company; what role should state regulators
have regarding insurance activities; and what will be the future of the thrift
charter. It is impossible to predict whether or in what form these or other
similar legislative proposals may be adopted in the future, and, if adopted,
what their effect will be on Key.
 
Recent Regulatory Initiatives
 
In late 1996, the OCC adopted a substantially revised regulation dealing with
the corporate activities of national banks. The revised regulation contained a
provision which provided a framework within which the OCC could approve
activities to be conducted within an operating subsidiary of a national bank
which the OCC determines to be part of, or incidental to, the business of
banking but which could not be lawfully conducted by the parent bank itself. In
December of 1997, the OCC approved its first application within this framework
for limited securities activities. It is unclear at this time, however, whether
and to what extent this regulatory initiative may expand the overall mix of
permissible activities within a banking organization.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
The headquarters of KeyCorp, KeyBank National Association and KeyBank USA are
located in Key Tower at 127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306. At
December 31, 1997, Key leased approximately 695,000 square feet of the complex,
encompassing the first twenty-three floors, the 28th floor and the 54th through
56th floors of the 57-story Key Tower. As of the same date, the banking
subsidiaries of KeyCorp owned 586 of their branch banking offices and leased 429
offices. The lease terms for applicable branch banking offices are not
individually material, with terms ranging from month-to-month to 99-year leases
from inception. Additional information pertaining to KeyCorp's properties is
presented in Note 1, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," beginning on
page 60 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1997 Annual Report to
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
 

 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
In the ordinary course of business, Key is subject to legal actions which
involve claims for substantial monetary relief. Based on information presently
available to management and Key's counsel, management does not believe that any
legal actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse
effect on the financial condition of Key.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders of KeyCorp.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS
 
On August 29, 1997, the Corporation issued an aggregate of 3,336,118 pre-split
KeyCorp Common Shares pursuant to the exemption from registration under Rule 506
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("the 1933 Act"). The KeyCorp Common
Shares were issued in a tax-free exchange in which KeyCorp acquired 100% of the
outstanding shares of Champion Mortgage Co., Inc. ("Champion"). In privately
issuing the KeyCorp Common Shares in this transaction, KeyCorp relied on the
fact that the KeyCorp Common Shares were acquired by no more than 35 persons who
were not accredited investors and that each non-accredited investor, either
alone or together with his or her purchaser representative(s), was capable of
evaluating the investment. The KeyCorp Common Shares issued to the former
shareholders of Champion were subsequently registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to a registration statement (No. 333-37287) that
was declared effective on October 23, 1997. Further information pertaining to
the Champion acquisition is included in Note 3, "Mergers, Acquisitions, and
Divestitures" beginning on page 63 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's
1997 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The dividend restrictions discussion beginning on page 3 of this report and the
following disclosures included in the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1997
Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference:
 

 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
The Selected Financial Data presented on page 28 of the Financial Review section
of KeyCorp's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS
 
The information included under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" presented on pages 25 through 54
of KeyCorp's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference.
 

 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
The Selected Quarterly Financial Data and the financial statements and the notes
thereto, presented on page 54 and on pages 56 through 78, respectively, of the
Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the sections captioned
"Issue One -- ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" and "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS" contained in
KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held May 7, 1998, and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp expects
to file its final proxy statement on or about March 30, 1998.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the sections captioned
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ITS COMMITTEES," "COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS" and "EMPLOYMENT AND CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENTS" contained in
KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held May 7, 1998, and is incorporated herein by reference. The information
set forth in the sections captioned "COMPENSATION AND ORGANIZATION COMMITTEE
REPORT ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" and "KEYCORP STOCK PRICE PERFORMANCE"
contained in KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held May 7, 1998, is not incorporated by reference in this
Report on Form 10-K. KeyCorp expects to file its final proxy statement on or
about March 30, 1998.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the section captioned
"SHARE OWNERSHIP AND PHANTOM STOCK UNITS" contained in KeyCorp's definitive
Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 7,
1998, and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp expects to file its final
proxy statement on or about March 30, 1998.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the section captioned
"Issue One -- ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" contained in KeyCorp's definitive Proxy
Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 7, 1998,
and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp expects to file its final proxy
statement on or about March 30, 1998.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(a)(1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The following financial statements of KeyCorp and its subsidiaries, and the
auditor's report thereon, included in the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's
1997 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference:
 

 
(a)(2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
All financial statement schedules for KeyCorp and its subsidiaries have been
included in the consolidated financial statements or the related footnotes, or
they are either inapplicable or not required.
 
(a)(3) EXHIBITS*
 

 


 

 

 
The Corporation hereby agrees to furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission
upon request, copies of instruments outstanding, including indentures, which
define the rights of long-term debt security holders.
 
All documents listed as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.37 constitute management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.
 
* Copies of these Exhibits have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
  Commission. Shareholders may obtain a copy of any exhibit, upon payment of
  reproduction costs, by writing KeyCorp Investor Relations, at 127 Public
  Square (Mailcode OH-01-27-1113), Cleveland, OH 44114-1306.
 
(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1997.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS
BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, ON THE DATE INDICATED.
                                          KEYCORP
 
                                          /S/ THOMAS C. STEVENS
 
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          THOMAS C. STEVENS
                                          Senior Executive Vice President,
                                          General Counsel and Secretary
                                          March 19, 1998
 
PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS REPORT
HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND
IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED.
 

 

 
                                          /s/ Thomas C. Stevens
 
                                          * By Thomas C. Stevens,
                                            attorney-in-fact
                                           March 19, 1998
 

