
10-K405
KEYCORP   10-K405





                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

               [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994

                                       OR

             [  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM                   TO
                          COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-850

                                    KEYCORP
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                     Ohio                                       34-6542451
(State or other jurisdiction of                              (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                              Identification No.)

127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio
                                                                44114-1306
(Address of principal executive offices)                        (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code (216) 689-6300

Securities registered pursuant                  Securities registered pursuant
 to Section 12(b) of the Act:                    to Section 12(g) of the Act:


10% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Class A
Depositary Shares representing
      one-fifth of one share of 10%
   Cumulative Preferred Stock, Class A
Common Shares, $1 par value
Rights to Purchase Common Shares                                   None    

       (Title of class)                                      (Title of class)

New York Stock Exchange
(Name of each exchange
 on which registered)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to the
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes  X   No ____.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  X 

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $6,688,704,652 at February 28, 1995. (The
aggregate market value has been computed using the closing market price of the
stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on February 28, 1995.)

                                 242,901,125
    (Number of KeyCorp Common Shares outstanding as of February 28, 1995)




                                    KEYCORP

                          1994 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

                               
                                                                        

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

On March 1, 1994, KeyCorp, a financial services holding company headquartered
in Albany, New York, with approximately $33 billion in assets at December 31,
1993 ("old KeyCorp"), merged into and with Society Corporation, a financial
services holding company headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, with approximately
$27 billion in assets at December 31, 1993 ("Society"), pursuant to an
Agreement and Plan of Merger, and a related Supplemental Agreement to
Agreement and Plan of Merger, each dated as of October 1, 1993, and each as
amended.  In the merger, Society, an Ohio corporation, was the surviving
corporation, but changed its name to KeyCorp (also referred to herein as the
"Corporation").  The merger was accounted for as a pooling of interests.
Accordingly, all financial data of KeyCorp set forth herein (or incorporated
by reference) has been restated to give effect to the merger of old KeyCorp
into and with Society.

The merger of old KeyCorp into and with Society created a financial services
holding company which traces its roots back to 1825, when the first
predecessor of old KeyCorp was organized.  At December 31, 1994, KeyCorp was
one of the nation's largest bank holding companies based upon consolidated
total assets of approximately $66.8 billion.

KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other
subsidiaries.  Accordingly, the right of KeyCorp, its security holders and its
creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its
banking and other subsidiaries is necessarily subject to the prior claims of
the respective creditors of such banking and other subsidiaries, except to the
extent that claims of KeyCorp in its capacity as a creditor of such banking
and other subsidiaries may be recognized.

The executive offices of KeyCorp are located at 127 Public Square, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114-1306, and its telephone number is (216) 689-6300.

SUBSIDIARIES

KeyCorp provides banking and other financial services across much of the
country's northern tier and in Florida through a network of subsidiaries
operating 1,272 full-service banking offices in 13 states, giving KeyCorp the
nation's fifth largest domestic branch network as of December 31, 1994 (before
giving effect to KeyCorp's recent acquisitions of BANKVERMONT Corporation,
Casco Northern Bank, National Association and OMNIBANCORP described in Note 2,
Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures beginning on page 56 of the KeyCorp
1994 Annual Report to Shareholders which is incorporated herein by reference).
KeyCorp's largest bank subsidiaries include Society National Bank,
headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, which is the largest bank in Ohio and one of
the nation's major regional banks with $24.6 billion in total assets and 289
full-service banking offices at December 31, 1994; Key Bank of New York,
headquartered in Albany, New York, with $14.9 billion in total assets and 327
full-service banking offices at December 31, 1994 ("Key-NY"); Key Bank of
Washington, headquartered in Tacoma, Washington, with $7.6 billion in total
assets and 186 full-service banking offices at December 31, 1994 ("Key-
Washington"); and Society National Bank, Indiana, headquartered in South Bend,
Indiana, with $3.3 billion in total assets and 92 full-service banking offices
at December 31, 1994 ("SNBI").  In addition, KeyCorp operates bank
subsidiaries in Alaska, Colorado, Idaho, Maine, Michigan, Oregon, Utah,
Vermont (its Vermont subsidiary was acquired on January 27, 1995 as described
in Note 2, Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures, beginning on page 56 of the
KeyCorp 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders which is incorporated herein by
reference) and Wyoming, a savings association subsidiary in Florida, and
either a trust company subsidiary or an office of a trust company subsidiary
in each of the aforementioned states.

Through its bank and trust company subsidiaries KeyCorp provides a wide range
of banking, fiduciary and other financial services to its corporate,
individual and institutional customers located throughout the country.  In
addition to the customary banking services of accepting deposits and making
loans, KeyCorp's bank and trust company subsidiaries provide specialized
services tailored to specific markets, including personal and corporate trust
services, personal financial services, customer access to mutual funds, cash
management services, investment banking services and international banking
services.  Through its subsidiary banks, trust companies and registered
investment adviser subsidiaries, KeyCorp provides investment management
services to institutional and individual

clients, including large corporate and public retirement plans, Taft-Hartley
plans, foundations and endowments, and high net worth individuals.  Several of
KeyCorp's investment management and trust company subsidiaries also serve as
investment advisers to KeyCorp's proprietary mutual funds.

KeyCorp also provides other financial services both in and outside of its
primary banking markets through its nonbank subsidiaries.  Services provided
by nonbank financial services subsidiaries include reinsurance of credit life
and accident and health insurance on loans made by subsidiary banks, venture
capital and small business investment financing services, equipment lease
financing, community development financing, stock transfer agent, and other
financial services.  KeyCorp is also an equity participant in a joint venture
with a number of other unaffiliated bank holding companies in Electronic
Payment Services, Inc., which provides automated teller machine access for
bank customers throughout most of the United States through its subsidiary,
Money Access Service Inc. (more commonly known as the MAC(R) network).

The following financial data is included in the KeyCorp 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference as indicated below:




MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES

The information presented in Note 2, Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures
starting on Page 56 of the KeyCorp 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference.

COMPETITION

The market for banking and bank-related services is highly competitive.
KeyCorp and its subsidiaries compete with other providers of financial
services such as other bank holding companies, commercial banks, savings
associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, mutual funds,
insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms,
broker dealers and a growing list of other local, regional and national
institutions which offer financial services.  KeyCorp and its subsidiaries
compete by offering quality products and innovative services at competitive
prices.

Mergers between financial institutions have added competitive pressure.
Competition is expected to intensify as a consequence of interstate banking
laws now in effect in the majority of states which permit banking
organizations to expand geographically.  Further, the recently enacted Riegle-
Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 will generally
remove the remaining restrictions on interstate acquisitions of banks and bank
holding companies one year after its enactment.  The act also authorizes
nationwide interstate branching effective June 1, 1997, although states may
"opt-in" and permit branching sooner, or "opt-out" and prohibit branching into
or out of that state. See "Supervision and Regulation -- Interstate Banking
and Other Recent Legislation" herein.









SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

The following discussion addresses certain of the material elements of the
regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their
subsidiaries, and provides certain specific information relevant to KeyCorp.
Regulation of financial institutions such as KeyCorp and its subsidiaries is
intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit insurance
funds of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") and the banking
system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of
shareholders or other investors.

In the following discussion, references to statutes and regulations are brief
summaries thereof and are qualified in their entirety by reference to such
statutes and regulations.  In addition, there are other statutes and
regulations that apply to the operation of banking institutions.  Changes in
the applicable laws, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot
necessarily be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business
and results of KeyCorp.

General

As a bank holding company, KeyCorp is subject to the regulation, supervision
and examination of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
"Federal Reserve Board") under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended (the 'BHCA").  Under the BHCA, bank holding companies may not, in
general, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than
5% of the voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of any company,
including a bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board.  In
addition, bank holding companies are generally prohibited under the BHCA from
engaging in nonbanking (i.e. commercial or industrial) activities, subject to
certain exceptions.  As a result of its 1993 acquisition of the institution
that is now known as Society First Federal Savings Bank ("Society First
Federal"), the Corporation is also subject to the regulation and supervision
of the Office of Thrift Supervision (the "OTS") as a savings and loan holding
company registered under the Home Owners' Loan Act, as amended ("HOLA").

The Corporation's banking subsidiaries are also subject to extensive
regulation, supervision and examination by applicable Federal and state
banking agencies.  Society National Bank, SNBI and Key Bank USA, N.A. are
national banking associations with full banking powers, subject to regulation,
supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
(the "OCC").  A number of other national banking subsidiaries of the
Corporation operate under bank charters that limit their powers to trust-
related fiduciary activities.  These are Key Trust Company of Ohio, N.A., Key
Trust Company of Indiana, N.A. and Key Trust Company of Florida, N.A.
(formerly known as Society National Trust Company).  These entities are also
subject to the regulation, supervision and examination of the OCC, although
they are not regulated as banks for purposes of the BHCA.  All of the other
banking subsidiaries of the Corporation, other than Society First Federal, are
state-chartered banks that are subject to regulation, supervision and
examination by the applicable state banking authority in the state in which
each such institution is chartered.  In addition the Corporation's state-
chartered banks are not members of the Federal Reserve System (and are
therefore so-called "nonmember banks"), and, accordingly, are subject to the
regulation, supervision and examination of the FDIC.  Because the deposits in
all of the Corporation's banking subsidiaries are insured (up to applicable
limits) by the FDIC, the FDIC also has certain regulatory and supervisory
authority over all such banking subsidiaries, including Society First Federal.
The OTS is charged with regulation of Federal savings associations such as
Society First Federal, presently the Corporation's only such institution.

Depository institutions are also affected by various state and Federal laws,
including those relating to consumer protection and similar matters, as well
as by the fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal government and its
agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board.  An important purpose of these
policies is to curb inflation and control recessions through control of the
supply of money and credit.  The Federal Reserve Board uses its powers to
establish reserve requirements of depository institutions and to conduct open
market operations in United States government securities so as to influence
the supply of money and credit.  These policies have a direct effect on the
availability of bank loans and deposits and on interest rates charged on loans
and paid on deposits, with the result that Federal policies have a material
effect on the earnings of the banking subsidiaries, and, hence, the
Corporation.

The Corporation also has other financial services subsidiaries that are
subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve
Board, as well as other applicable state and Federal regulatory agencies.  For
example, the Corporation's discount brokerage and asset management
subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and
state securities regulators; the Corporation's state-chartered trust company
subsidiaries are subject to regulation by



state banking authorities; and the Corporation's insurance subsidiaries are
subject to regulation by the insurance regulatory authorities of the various
states.  Other nonbank subsidiaries of the Corporation are subject to other
laws and regulations of both the Federal government and the various states in
which they are authorized to do business.

Dividend Restrictions

The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and
other subsidiaries.  The principal source of cash flow of the Corporation,
including cash flow to pay dividends on the Corporation's common and preferred
shares and debt service on the Corporation's debt, is dividends from its
banking and other subsidiaries.  Various Federal and state statutory and
regulatory provisions limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to the
Corporation by its banking subsidiaries without regulatory approval.

The approval of the OCC is required for the payment of any dividend by a
national bank if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors
of such bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of (i) the bank's net
profits (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for the current year plus
(ii) the retained net profits (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for
the preceding two years, less any required transfer to surplus or a fund for
the retirement of any preferred stock.  In addition, a national bank can pay
dividends only to the extent that retained net profits (including the portion
transferred to surplus) exceed bad debts (as defined and interpreted by
regulation).  Three of the Corporation's banking subsidiaries, Society
National Bank, SNBI and Key Bank USA N.A., and the Corporation's trust company
subsidiaries that are national banks, are subject to these restrictions.

Key-NY, KeyCorp's second-largest banking subsidiary, is subject to dividend
restrictions under New York law that are substantially the same as the
national bank restrictions described above.  In particular, without the prior
approval of the Superintendent of Banks, a New York-chartered bank may not
declare dividends during any calendar year in excess of (i) the total of the
bank's net profits (as defined by statute) for that year combined with (ii)
its retained net profits of the preceding two years, less any required
transfers to surplus or a fund for the retirement of preferred stock.

KeyCorp's third-largest banking subsidiary is Key-Washington, which is
chartered by the State of Washington, and is subject to similar restrictions
on its ability to pay dividends to KeyCorp. Under Washington law, a bank can
pay dividends in an amount not in excess of its retained earnings determined
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

The Corporation's other banking subsidiaries are subject to various comparable
restrictions on the payment of dividends under the laws of the states in which
they are chartered.  In addition, OTS regulations limit the amount of capital
distribution (dividends or otherwise) that any savings association may pay
without prior OTS approval.  These limitations are applicable to Society First
Federal.

In addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable Federal banking agency, a
depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to
engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial
condition of the institution, could include the payment of dividends) the
agency may require, after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and
desist from such practice.  The OCC and the FDIC have indicated that paying
dividends that would deplete a depository institution's capital base to an
inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound practice.  Moreover, under the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the "FDI Act"), an insured depository
institution may not pay any dividend if payment would cause it to become
undercapitalized or once it is undercapitalized.  See "Regulatory Capital
Standards and Related Matters -- Prompt Corrective Action."  Also, the Federal
Reserve Board, the OCC, the FDIC and the OTS have issued policy statements
which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding
companies should generally pay dividends only out of the current operating
earnings.

Under the laws and regulations applicable to the Corporation's banking
subsidiaries, management estimates that, as of December 31, 1994, the
Corporation's banking subsidiaries could have declared dividends estimated to
be $642.4 million in the aggregate, without obtaining prior regulatory
approval, not including dividends that may be payable by the Corporation's
trust company subsidiaries, Society First Federal and certain other
subsidiaries.









Holding Company Structure

Transactions Involving Banking Subsidiaries.  The Corporation's banking
subsidiaries are subject to Federal Reserve Act restrictions which limit the
transfer of funds or other items of value from such subsidiaries to the
Corporation and (with certain exceptions) to the Corporation's nonbanking
subsidiaries (together, "affiliates") in so-called "covered transactions."  In
general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit,
investments and asset purchases, as well as other transactions involving the
transfer of value from a banking subsidiary to an affiliate or for the benefit
of an affiliate.  Unless an exemption applies, each covered transaction by a
banking subsidiary with one of its nonbanking affiliates is limited in amount
to 10% of that banking subsidiary's capital and surplus and, with respect to
all covered transactions with affiliates, in the aggregate, to 20% of that
banking subsidiary's capital and surplus.  Furthermore, loans and extensions
of credit are required to be secured in specified amounts.

Source of Strength Doctrine.  Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank
holding company is expected to serve as a source of financial and managerial
strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances,
to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank.  This support may be
required by the Federal Reserve Board at times when the Corporation may not
have the resources to provide it or, for other reasons, would not otherwise be
inclined to provide it.  Certain loans by a bank holding company to any of its
subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits in, and
certain other indebtedness of, the subsidiary bank.  In addition, the Crime
Control Act of 1990 provides that in the event of a bank holding company's
bankruptcy, any commitment by a bank holding company to a Federal bank
regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed
by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

Depositor Preference.  The FDI Act provides that, in the event of the
"liquidation or other resolution" of an insured depository institution, the
claims of depositors of such institution (including claims by the FDIC as
subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses
of the FDIC as a receiver would be afforded a priority over other general
unsecured claims against such an institution, including Federal funds and
letters of credit.  If an insured depository institution fails, insured and
uninsured depositors along with the FDIC will be placed ahead of unsecured,
nondeposit creditors, including a parent holding company, in order of priority
of payment.

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.  Under the FDI Act, an insured
depository institution which is under common control with another insured
depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred, or
reasonably anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the
default of such commonly controlled institution, or any assistance provided by
the FDIC to such commonly controlled institution which is in danger of
default.  The term "default" is defined generally  to mean the appointment of
a conservator or receiver and the term "in danger of default" is defined
generally as the existence of certain conditions indicating that a "default"
is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.

Regulatory Capital Standards and Related Matters

Capital Guidelines.  The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC have
adopted substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines for
United States banking organizations.  The guidelines establish a systematic,
analytical framework that makes regulatory capital requirements more sensitive
to differences in risk profiles among banking organizations, takes off-balance
sheet exposure into account in assessing capital adequacy and minimizes
disincentives to holding liquid, low-risk assets.  The risk-based capital
ratio is determined by classifying assets and specified off-balance sheet
financial instruments into weighted categories with higher levels of capital
being required for categories perceived as representing greater risk.

Under these risk-based capital standards, the minimum consolidated ratio of
total capital to risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet
items, such as standby letters of credit) required by the Federal Reserve
Board for bank holding companies, such as the Corporation, is currently 8%.
At least one-half of the total capital must be comprised of common equity,
retained earnings, qualifying non-cumulative, perpetual preferred stock, a
limited amount of qualifying cumulative, perpetual preferred stock and
minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less
goodwill and certain other intangible assets ("Tier I capital").  The
remainder may consist of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory
convertible debt securities, a limited amount of subordinated debt, other
preferred stock and a limited amount of loan and lease loss reserves ("Tier II
capital").  As of December 31, 1994, the Corporation's Tier I and total
capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios were 8.48% and 11.62%, respectively.







In addition to the risk-based standard, the Corporation is subject to minimum
leverage ratio guidelines.  The leverage ratio is defined to be the ratio of a
banking organization's Tier I capital to its total consolidated quarterly
average assets less goodwill and certain other intangible assets.  These
guidelines provide for a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for bank holding
companies that have the highest supervisory rating.  All other bank holding
companies must maintain a minimum leverage ratio of at least 4% to 5%.
Neither the Corporation nor any of its banking subsidiaries has been advised
by its primary Federal banking regulator of any specific leverage ratio
applicable to it.  As of December 31, 1994, the Corporation's Tier I leverage
ratio was 6.63%.  In addition, Federal Reserve Board policy provides that
banking organizations generally, and, in particular, those that are
experiencing internal growth or actively making acquisitions are expected to
maintain capital positions that are substantially above the minimum
supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets.
Furthermore, the guidelines indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will
consider a banking organization's "tangible Tier I leverage ratio" in
evaluating its proposals for expansion or new activities.  The tangible Tier I
leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization's Tier I capital less
all intangible assets to total consolidated quarterly average assets less all
intangible assets.  For purposes of this calculation, purchased mortgage
servicing rights are not considered to be intangible assets.  As of December
31, 1994, the Corporation's tangible Tier I leverage ratio was 6.58%.

The Corporation's banking subsidiaries are also subject to capital
requirements adopted by their respective primary Federal bank regulatory
agency which are substantially similar to those imposed by the Federal Reserve
Board on bank holding companies.  The Corporation's national bank subsidiaries
are subject to the capital requirements of the OCC and its state chartered
nonmember banks are subject to the capital requirements of the FDIC.  As of
December 31, 1994, each of the Corporations' banking subsidiaries had capital
in excess of all minimum regulatory requirements.

The Federal bank regulatory agencies have each also proposed or issued formal
regulations that would add an additional capital requirement based upon the
amount of an institution's exposure to interest rate risk.  The OTS adopted a
final rule effective January 1, 1994 (except for limited provisions which were
effective July 1 1994), adding an interest rate component to its risk-based
capital standards.  Under the OTS rule, a savings association with a greater
than "normal" level of interest rate risk is subject to a deduction from
total capital for purposes of calculating its risk-based capital ratio.  In
September 1993, the other Federal bank regulatory agencies issued proposed
revisions to their respective risk-based capital standards which provide for
consideration of interest rate risk in the overall determination of a bank's
minimum capital requirements.  The intended effect of the proposal would be to
ensure that banking institutions effectively measure and monitor their
interest rate risk and that they maintain adequate capital for that risk.
Under the proposal, an institution's exposure to interest rate risk would be
measured using either a supervisory model developed by the Federal bank
regulatory agencies, or the bank's own internal model.  The first approach
would reduce a bank's risk-based capital ratios by an amount based on its
measured exposure to interest rate risk in excess of a specified threshold.
The second approach would assess the need for additional capital on a case-by-
case basis, considering both the level of measured exposure and qualitative
risk factors.  The Corporation cannot assess at this point the impact the
proposal would have on its capital positions.

On September 1, 1994, the Federal bank regulatory agencies announced a
proposal to amend their respective risk-based capital rules to refine the
treatment of derivative financial instruments on which a bank has credit
exposure for capital computation purposes.  The Corporation anticipates that
this proposal, if adopted in its current form, would not have a material
effect on its minimum risk-based capital requirements.

On December 8, 1994, the Federal Reserve Board adopted a final rule, effective
December 31, 1994, to exclude net unrealized gains and losses on investments
in debt securities classified as "available for sale" from the computation of
Tier I capital for purposes of the risk-based capital and leverage standards.
The rule provides that net unrealized losses on equity securities with readily
determinable fair values and which are held in the "available for sale"
portfolio, must be deducted from Tier I capital. As a result of the rule, the
full potential impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115,
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," on Tier I
capital was mitigated. See Note 3, Securities Available for Sale beginning on
page 58 of the KeyCorp 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders which is
incorporated herein by reference. This revision will not have a material
effect on the risk-based capital and leverage standards of the Corporation's
subsidiary banks.






Prompt Corrective Action. The "prompt corrective action" provisions of the FDI
Act group FDIC insured depository institutions into five broad categories
based on their capital ratios.  The five categories -- "well capitalized,"
"adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized"
and "critically undercapitalized" -- are based upon an institution's total,
Tier I and leverage capital ratios.  Under the regulations, an institution is
(i) "well capitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or
greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater and a leverage
ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject to any written agreement, order or
capital directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any
capital measure; (ii) "adequately capitalized" if it has a total risk-based
capital ratio of 8% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4% or
greater and a leverage ratio of 4% or greater (3% in certain circumstances)
and is not "well capitalized"; (iii) "undercapitalized" if it has a total
risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of
less than 4% or a leverage ratio of less than 4% (3% in certain
circumstances); (iv) "significantly undercapitalized" if it has a total risk-
based capital ratio of less than 6%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less
than 3% or a leverage ratio of less than 3%; and (v) "critically
undercapitalized" if its tangible equity is equal to or less than 2% of
average quarterly tangible assets. An institution may be downgraded to, or be
deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than is indicated by its
capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or
if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain
matters.

Each KeyCorp banking subsidiary is considered to be "well capitalized." An
institution's capital category, as determined by applying the prompt
corrective action provisions of law, may not constitute an accurate
representation of the overall financial condition or prospects of the
Corporation or its banking subsidiaries, and should be considered in
conjunction with other available information regarding the Corporation's
financial condition and results of operations.

The capital-based prompt corrective action provisions of the FDI Act and their
implementing regulations apply to FDIC insured depository institutions such as
the Corporation's banking subsidiaries (other than its trust company
subsidiaries), but they are not directly applicable to holding companies, such
as the Corporation, which control such institutions.  However, both the
Federal Reserve Board and the OTS have indicated that, in regulating holding
companies, they will take appropriate action at the holding company level
based on their assessment of the effectiveness of supervisory actions imposed
upon subsidiary depository institutions pursuant to such provisions and
regulations.

Under the prompt corrective action provisions of the FDI Act, an institution
that is not at least "adequately capitalized" may be subject to a number of
operating and other restrictions, including restrictions on the payment of
dividends to its parent holding company. In addition, under certain
circumstances a less than "adequately capitalized" institution's parent
holding company must guarantee to restore the institution's capital to certain
specified levels.

FDIC Insurance.

Under the FDIC's risk-related insurance assessment system, all insured
depository institutions are required to pay annual assessments to the Bank
Insurance Fund (the "BIF") or the Savings Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF")
of the FDIC.  The assessments range from 23 to 31 cents per $100 of domestic
deposits based on the institution's risk classification.  An institution's
risk classification is based on an assignment of the institution by the FDIC
to one of three capital groups and to one of three supervisory subgroups.  The
capital groups are "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized" and
"undercapitalized."  The three supervisory subgroups are Group "A" (for
financially solid institutions with only a few minor weaknesses), Group "B"
(for those institutions with weaknesses which, if uncorrected, could cause
substantial deterioration of the institution and increase the risk to the
deposit insurance fund) and Group "C" (for those institutions with a
substantial probability of loss to the fund absent effective corrective
action).  For the period commencing on July 1, 1994 through December 31, 1994,
insurance premiums on deposits of all of the Corporation's banking
subsidiaries were assessed at the rate of 23 cents per $100 of domestic
deposits.

On January 31, 1995, the FDIC issued a proposal to reduce deposit insurance
rate assessments for banks and savings associations that pay assessments to
the BIF.  The proposal, which is not likely to be effective prior to the
semiannual period commencing on July 1, 1995, would create a wider overall
range of premiums payable to the BIF by establishing four possible premium
rates below the current 23 cents minimum.  The lowest possible premium would
be reduced to 4 cents per $100 of domestic deposits.  The maximum rate payable
would continue to be 31


cents.  No change in deposit insurance rates paid by savings associations to
the SAIF has been proposed.  The effect of any such modifications in rates
payable for deposit insurance cannot be accurately predicted at this time.

Interstate Banking and Other Recent Legislation.

On September 29, 1994, the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching
Efficiency Act of 1994 (the "Interstate Act") was enacted into Federal law.
Under the Interstate Act, commencing on September 29, 1995, bank holding
companies will be permitted to acquire banks located in any state regardless
of the state law in effect at the time.  The Interstate Act also provides for
the nationwide interstate branching of banks.  Under the Interstate Act, both
national and state-chartered banks will be permitted to merge across state
lines (and thereby create interstate branches) commencing on June 1, 1997.
States are permitted to "opt-out" of the interstate branching authority by
taking action prior to the commencement date.  States may also "opt-in" early
(i.e., prior to June 1, 1997) to the interstate branching provisions.

In addition to the matters discussed above, there have been proposed a number
of legislative and regulatory proposals designed to strengthen the Federal
deposit insurance system and to improve the overall financial stability of the
U.S. banking system, and to provide for other changes in the bank regulatory
structure, including proposals to reduce regulatory burdens on banking
organizations and to expand the nature of products and services banks and bank
holding companies may offer.   It is impossible to predict whether or in what
form these proposals may be adopted in the future, and, if adopted, what their
effect will be on the Corporation.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The headquarters of KeyCorp and of Society National Bank are located in
Society Center at 127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306.  KeyCorp
currently leases approximately 663,000 square feet of the complex,
encompassing the first twenty-one floors, the 28th floor and the 54th through
56th floors of the 57-story Society Tower.  At December 31, 1994, the banking
subsidiaries of KeyCorp owned 773 of their branch banking offices and leased
499 offices.  The lease terms for applicable branch banking offices are not
individually material, with terms ranging from month-to-month to 99-year
leases from inception.  Additional information pertaining to KeyCorp's
properties is presented in Note 7, Premises and Equipment on page 61 of the
KeyCorp 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In the ordinary course of business, KeyCorp and its subsidiaries are subject
to legal actions which involve claims for substantial monetary relief.
Management, based upon advice of the Corporation's counsel, does not believe
that any legal actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material
adverse effect on KeyCorp's consolidated financial condition.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this Report, no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders of KeyCorp.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

The Dividend restrictions discussion starting on page 4 and the following
disclosures included in the KeyCorp 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated herein by reference:









ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The Selected Financial Data presented on page 20 of the KeyCorp 1994 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The information included under "Management's Discussion and Analysis"
presented on pages 17 through 46 of the KeyCorp 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The Selected Quarterly Financial Data and the financial statements and the
notes thereto, presented on page 45 and on pages 50 through 75, respectively,
of the KeyCorp 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item is set forth in the sections captioned
"ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" and "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF KEYCORP" contained in
KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held May 18, 1995, and is incorporated herein by reference.
KeyCorp expects to file its proxy statement on or about April 5, 1995.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is set forth in the sections captioned
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ITS COMMITTEES", "COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS" and "COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION"
contained in KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders to be held May 18, 1995, and is incorporated herein by
reference. The information set forth in the sections captioned "COMPENSATION
AND ORGANIZATION AND EXECUTIVE EQUITY COMPENSATION COMMITTEE JOINT REPORT ON
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" and "KEYCORP STOCK PRICE PERFORMANCE" contained in
KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held May 18, 1995, is not incorporated by reference in this
Report on Form 10-K. KeyCorp expects to file its proxy statement on or about
April 5, 1995.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this item is set forth in the section captioned
"SHARE OWNERSHIP" contained in KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the
1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 18, 1995, and is
incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp expects to file its proxy statement
on or about April 5, 1995.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item is set forth in the sections captioned
"ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" and "COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER
PARTICIPATION" contained in KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1995
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 18, 1995, and is incorporated
herein by reference. KeyCorp expects to file its proxy statement on or about
April 5, 1995.







                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
(A) (1)  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following financial statements of KeyCorp and Subsidiaries, and the
auditor's report thereon, are incorporated herein by reference to the pages
indicated in the KeyCorp 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders:



 (A) (2)  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

All financial statement schedules for KeyCorp and Subsidiaries have been
included in the consolidated financial statements or the related footnotes, or
they are either inapplicable or not required.
        
   (A) (3)  EXHIBITS*
            3.1     Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
                    KeyCorp. Filed as Exhibit 7 to Form 8-A/A filed
                    on February 25, 1994, and incorporated herein by
                    reference.

            3.2     Regulations of KeyCorp.  Filed as Exhibit 6 to Form 8-A/A
                    filed on February 25, 1994, and incorporated herein by
                    reference.

            4.1     Rights Agreement, dated as of August 25, 1989, between
                    Society Corporation and First Chicago Trust Company of
                    New York, as Rights Agent.  Filed as Exhibit 1 to Form
                    8-A filed on August 29, 1989, and incorporated herein by
                    reference.

            4.2     First Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of February
                    21, 1991, between Society Corporation and First Chicago
                    Trust Company of New York, as Rights Agent.  Filed as
                    Exhibit 1 to Form 8-A, filed on February 28, 1991,
                    amending Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed
                    August 29, 1989, and incorporated herein by reference.

            4.3     Second Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of
                    September 12, 1991, between Society Corporation and First
                    Chicago Trust Company of New York, as Rights Agent. 
                    Filed as Exhibit 4 to Schedule 13D filed September 23,
                    1991, and incorporated herein by reference.

            4.4     Resignation of first Chicago Trust Company of New York as
                    Rights Agent and appointment of Society National Bank as
                    Rights Agent effective July 1, 1992.  Filed as Exhibit
                    4.4 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992,
                    and incorporated herein by reference.

            4.5     Third Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of October
                    1, 1993, between Society Corporation and Society National
                    Bank, as Rights Agent.  Filed as Exhibit 4 to Schedule 13D
                    filed on October 12, 1993, and incorporated herein by
                    reference.

            4.6     Deposit Agreement, dated July 27, 1991, by and between old
                    KeyCorp and Chase Manhattan Bank.  Filed as Exhibit 4(c)
                    to old KeyCorp's Registration Statement on Form S-3
                    (Registration No. 33-40633), and incorporated herein by
                    reference.







            10.1    KeyCorp Short Term Incentive Compensation Plan.

            10.2    KeyCorp Long Term Cash Incentive Compensation Plan.

            10.3    Society Corporation Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan
                    (November 30, 1993 Restatement).  Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
                    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, and
                    incorporated herein by reference.

            10.4    Society Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan (January
                    1, 1993 Amendment and Restatement).  Filed as Exhibit 10.3
                    to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992, and
                    incorporated herein by reference.

            10.5    Society Corporation Excess Benefit Retirement Plan (April
                    26, 1990 Amendment and Restatement).  Filed as Exhibit
                    10.4 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990,
                    and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.6    Society Corporation Supplemental Stock Purchase and
                    Savings Plan (December 30, 1992 Amendment and Restatement).
                    Filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1992, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.7    Compensation Continuance Agreement executed between
                    Society Corporation and certain executive officers of
                    Society Corporation as of December 5, 1990.  Filed as
                    Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1990, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.8    Compensation Continuance Agreement executed between
                    Society Corporation and certain executive officers of
                    Society Corporation as of March 31, 1992.  Filed as
                    Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1992, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.9    Compensation Continuation Agreements executed between
                    Society Corporation and certain executive officers of
                    Society Corporation as of June 24, 1993.  Filed as Exhibit
                    10.8 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993,
                    and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.10   Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between KeyCorp
                    and Victor J. Riley, Jr., dated February 15, 1995.

            10.11   Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between KeyCorp
                    and Robert W. Gillespie, dated December 20, 1993.  Filed
                    as Exhibit 10.10 to Form 10-K for the year ended December
                    31, 1993, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.12   Employment Agreement between KeyCorp and Roger Noall,
                    dated February 4, 1994.  Filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Form
                    10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, and
                    incorporated herein by reference.

            10.13   Agreement dated August 16, 1990, between Society
                    Corporation and George H. Cress.  Filed as Exhibit 10.10
                    to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, and
                    incorporated herein by reference.

            10.14   Employment Agreement between KeyCorp and Gary Allen, dated
                    July 1, 1993.

            10.15   KeyCorp Director Deferred Compensation Plan (January 1,
                    1995 Restatement).

            10.16   Society Corporation Compensation Arrangement Relating to
                    Financial Planning and Tax Services.  Filed as Exhibit
                    10.12 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990,
                    and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.17   KeyCorp Universal Life Insurance Plan.  Filed as Exhibit
                    10.15 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993,
                    and incorporated herein by reference.







            10.18   KeyCorp Supplemental Long Term Disability Plan.  Filed as
                    Exhibit 10.16 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 
                    31, 1993, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.19   1985 St. Joseph Bancorporation, Inc. Master Stock
                    Compensation Plan.  Filed as Exhibit 10.26 to Form 10-K 
                    for the year ended December 31, 1989, and incorporated 
                    herein by reference.

            10.20   Trustcorp, Inc. Excess Retirement Plan.  Filed as Exhibit
                    10.27 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, 
                    and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.21   Society Corporation 1984 Stock Option Plan, as amended.
                    Filed as Exhibit 10.15 to Form 10-K for the year ended 
                    December 31, 1991, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.22   Society Corporation 1988 Stock Option Plan, as amended.
                    Filed as Exhibit 10.23 to Form 10-K for the year ended 
                    December 31, 1993, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.23   1987 Stock Option Plan of Trustcorp, Inc.  Filed as
                    Exhibit 10.24 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
                    1989, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.24   1981 Incentive Stock Option Plan of Toledo Trustcorp, Inc.
                    Filed as Exhibit 10.25 to Form 10-K for the year ended 
                    December 31, 1989, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.25   KeyCorp Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Compensation
                    Plan.  Filed as part of KeyCorp's Proxy Statement for its 
                    1994 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, File No.1-11302, and 
                    incorporated herein by reference.

            10.26   Restatement of the Ameritrust Long-Term Incentive Plan as
                    the Ameritrust Stock Option Plan.  Filed as Exhibit 10.25 
                    to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991, and 
                    incorporated herein by reference.

            10.27   Trust Agreement (Executive Benefits Rabbi Trust), dated
                    November 3, 1988.  Filed as Exhibit 10.26 to Form 10-K 
                    for the year ended December 31, 1991, and incorporated 
                    herein by reference.

            10.28   Ameritrust Corporation Excess Benefit Plan.  Filed as
                    Exhibit 10.29 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
                    1991, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.29   Ameritrust Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan.  Filed
                    as Exhibit 10.30 to Form 10-K for the year ended 
                    December 31, 1991, and incorporated herein by reference.

          **10.30   Old KeyCorp Supplemental Disability Benefit Plan
                    (Specimen Document).

            10.31   Form of Severance Agreement for old KeyCorp executives.
                    Filed as Exhibit 10.35 to Form 10-K for the year ended 
                    December 31, 1993, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.32   Form of Employment Agreement for old KeyCorp executives.
                    Filed as Exhibit 10.36 to Form 10-K for the year ended 
                    December 31, 1993, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.33   Form of Amendment to Employment Agreement and Severance
                    Agreement for Old KeyCorp executives.  Filed as 
                    Exhibit 10.37 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
                    1993, and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.34   Form of Amendment to Change of Control Agreement for
                    Society executives, dated December 20, 1993.  Filed as 
                    Exhibit 99(i) to Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed 
                    December 28, 1993 (Registration No. 33-51717), and 
                    incorporated herein by reference.




            10.35   Form of Change of Control Agreement for old KeyCorp
                    executives and Society executives, dated December 20, 
                    1993.  Filed as Exhibit 99(j) to Registration Statement 
                    on Form S-4 filed December 28, 1993 (Registration 
                    No. 33-51717), and incorporated herein by reference.

            10.36   Form of Change of Control Agreement for old KeyCorp
                    executives, dated February 25, 1994.

            10.37   KeyCorp Directors' Stock Option Plan (November 17, 1994
                    Restatement).

            10.38   KeyCorp 1988 Stock Option Plan, as amended. Filed as
                    Exhibit 10.42 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
                    1993, and incorporated herein by reference.

          **10.39   KeyCorp Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors,
                    effective June 1, 1990.

          **10.40   KeyCorp Executive Deferred Compensation Plan,
                    effective June 1, 1990.

          **10.41   KeyCorp Survivor Benefit Plan, effective September 1,
                    1990.

          **10.42   KeyCorp Directors' Survivor Benefit Plan, effective
                    September 1, 1990.

          **10.43   KeyCorp Supplemental Retirement Benefit Plan for Key
                    Executives, effective July 1, 1990 and restated August 16, 
                    1990.

          **10.44   KeyCorp Umbrella Trust for Executives, between KeyCorp and 
                    National Bank of Detroit dated July 1, 1990.

          **10.45   KeyCorp Umbrella Trust for Directors, between KeyCorp
                    and National Bank of Detroit dated July 1, 1990.

          **10.46   Employment Agreement between old KeyCorp and William
                    H. Dougherty dated August 15, 1991.

     11   Statement re:  Computation of Per Share Earnings.

     12   Statement re:  Computation of Ratios

     13   KeyCorp 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders.

     21   Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     23   Consent of Ernst & Young, Independent Auditors.

     24   Powers of Attorney.

     27   Financial Data Schedule.

The Corporation hereby agrees to furnish the Securities and Exchange
Commission upon request, copies of instruments outstanding, including
indentures, which define the rights of long-term debt security holders.

All documents listed as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.47 constitute management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

* Copies of these Exhibits have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Shareholders may obtain a copy of any exhibit, upon payment of
reproduction costs, by writing Mr. Jay S. Gould, Investor Relations, at 127
Public Square (Mailcode OH-01-27-0406), Cleveland, OH  44114-1306.

** These Exhibits are incorporated by reference from old KeyCorp's Current
Report on Form 8-K dated March 9, 1992.







    (B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

         October 17, 1994 - Item 5. Other Events and Item 7. Financial
    Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits.  Reporting that the
    Registrant issued a press release on October 17, 1994, announcing its
    earnings results for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30,
    1994.

         December 15, 1994 - Item 5. Other Events.  Reporting that the
    Registrant issued a press release announcing plans to reduce its exposure
    to higher interest rates through a combination of strategies that  may
    result in pretax losses of up to $100 million, and that 1994 earnings per
    Common Share would be in the range of $3.45 and $3.50.
                





                                  SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the date indicated.

                                                KEYCORP

                                                /s/ Carter B. Chase

                                                Carter B. Chase
                                                Executive Vice President,
                                                General Counsel and Secretary
                                                March 27, 1995

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.



