10-K


l11135ae10vk.htm

KEYCORP      10-K

KeyCorp      10-K


United States Securities and Exchange Commission

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

[X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004

OR

[ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d)

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the Transition Period
From                     To

Commission file number 0-850

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Ohio

34-6542451

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio

44114-1306

(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(216) 689-6300

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant

to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Shares, $1 par value

Rights to Purchase Common Shares

Securities registered pursuant

to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

(Title of each class)

(Title of class)

New York Stock Exchange

(Name of each exchange on which registered)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated
filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates
of the Registrant was approximately $12,053,980,847 at
June 30, 2004. (The aggregate market value has been
computed using the closing market price of the stock as reported
by the New York Stock Exchange on June 30, 2004.)

406,322,167 Shares

(Number of KeyCorp Common Shares outstanding as of
February 15, 2005)

Certain specifically designated portions of KeyCorp’s 2004
Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by reference into
Parts I, II and IV of this Form 10-K. Certain specifically
designated portions of KeyCorp’s definitive Proxy Statement
for its 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.



KeyCorp

2004 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

Overview

KeyCorp, organized in 1958 under the laws of the state of Ohio,
is headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. It has elected to be a bank
holding company and a financial holding company under the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHCA”). At
December 31, 2004, KeyCorp was one of the nation’s
largest bank-based financial services companies with
consolidated total assets of $90.7 billion. Its
subsidiaries provide a wide range of retail and commercial
banking, commercial leasing, investment management, consumer
finance and investment banking products and services to
individual, corporate and institutional clients through three
major business groups: Consumer Banking, Corporate and
Investment Banking and Investment Management Services. As of
December 31, 2004, these services were provided across much
of the country through subsidiaries operating 935 full-service
retail banking branches (“KeyCenters”), a telephone
banking call center services group and 2,194 ATMs in seventeen
states. Additional information pertaining to the three business
groups is included in the “Line of Business Results”
section beginning on page 15 and in Note 4 (“Line of
Business Results”), beginning on page 62 of the Financial
Review section of KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp
and its subsidiaries had an average of 19,576 full-time
equivalent employees during 2004.

In addition to the customary banking services of accepting
deposits and making loans, KeyCorp’s bank and trust company
subsidiaries offer personal and corporate trust services,
personal financial services, access to mutual funds, cash
management services, investment banking and capital markets
products, and international banking services. Through its
subsidiary bank, trust company and registered investment adviser
subsidiaries, KeyCorp provides investment management services to
clients that include large corporate and public retirement
plans, foundations and endowments, high net worth individuals
and Taft-Hartley plans (i.e., multiemployer trust funds
established for providing pension, vacation or other benefits to
employees).

KeyCorp provides other financial services both inside and
outside of its primary banking markets through its nonbank
subsidiaries. These services include accident, health, and
credit-life insurance on loans made by its subsidiary bank,
principal investing, community development financing, securities
underwriting and brokerage, merchant services, and other
financial services. KeyCorp is an equity participant in a joint
venture with Key Merchant Services, LLC, which provides merchant
services to businesses.

KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank
and other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the right of KeyCorp, its
security holders and its creditors to participate in any
distribution of the assets or earnings of KeyCorp’s bank
and other subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the
respective creditors of such bank and other subsidiaries, except
to the extent that KeyCorp’s claims in its capacity as
creditor of such bank and other subsidiaries may be recognized.



The following financial data is included in the Financial Review
section of KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders and
is incorporated herein by reference as indicated below:

The executive offices of KeyCorp are located at 127 Public
Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306, and its telephone number is
(216) 689-6300.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

The information presented in Note 3 (“Acquisitions and
Divestiture”) on page 62 of the Financial Review section of
KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference.

Competition

The market for banking and related financial services is highly
competitive. KeyCorp and its subsidiaries (“Key”)
compete with other providers of financial services, such as bank
holding companies, commercial banks, savings associations,
credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies,
mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms,
investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local,
regional and national institutions which offer financial
services. Key competes by offering quality products and
innovative services at competitive prices.

In recent years, mergers and acquisitions have led to greater
concentration in the banking industry and placed added
competitive pressure on Key’s core banking products and
services. In addition, competition has intensified as a
consequence of the financial modernization laws that were
enacted in November 1999 and permit qualifying financial
institutions to expand into other activities. For example,
commercial banks are permitted to have affiliates that
underwrite and deal in securities, underwrite insurance and make
merchant banking investments under certain conditions. See
“Financial Modernization Legislation” on page 7.

Supervision and Regulation

The following discussion addresses certain material elements of
the regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies
and their subsidiaries and provides certain specific information
regarding Key. The regulatory framework is intended primarily to
protect customers and depositors, the deposit insurance funds of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and
the banking system as a whole, and generally is not intended to
protect security holders.

Set forth below is a brief discussion of selected laws,
regulations and regulatory agency policies applicable to Key.
This discussion is not intended to be comprehensive and is
qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the
statutes, regulations and regulatory agency policies to which
the discussion refers. Changes in



applicable laws, regulations and regulatory agency policies
cannot necessarily be predicted by management, yet such changes
may have a material effect on Key’s business, financial
condition or results of operations.

General

As a bank holding company, KeyCorp is subject to regulation,
supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”)
under the BHCA. Under the BHCA, bank holding companies may not,
in general, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or
control of more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially
all of the assets, of any bank, without the prior approval of
the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, bank holding companies
are generally prohibited from engaging in commercial or
industrial activities. KeyCorp’s bank subsidiaries are also
subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by
applicable federal banking agencies. KeyCorp operates one
full-service, FDIC-insured national bank subsidiary, KeyBank
National Association (“KBNA”), and one national bank
subsidiary whose activities are limited to those of a fiduciary.
Each of KeyCorp’s national bank subsidiaries and their
subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and
examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
(the “OCC”). Because the deposits in KBNA are insured
(up to applicable limits) by the FDIC, the FDIC also has certain
regulatory and supervisory authority over KBNA.

KeyCorp also has other financial services subsidiaries that are
subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the
Federal Reserve Board, as well as other applicable state and
federal regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations.
For example, KeyCorp’s brokerage and asset management
subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or the New York
Stock Exchange and state securities regulators, and
KeyCorp’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation
by the insurance regulatory authorities of the various states.
Other nonbank subsidiaries of KeyCorp are subject to laws and
regulations of both the federal government and the various
states in which they are authorized to do business.

Dividend Restrictions

The principal source of cash flow to KeyCorp, including cash
flow to pay dividends on its common shares and interest on its
indebtedness, is dividends from its subsidiaries. Various
statutory and regulatory provisions limit the amount of
dividends that may be paid by KeyCorp’s bank subsidiaries
without regulatory approval. The approval of the OCC is required
for the payment of any dividend by a national bank if the total
of all dividends declared by the board of directors of such bank
in any calendar year would exceed the total of: (i) the
bank’s net income for the current year plus (ii) the
retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation)
for the preceding two years, less any required transfer to
surplus or a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock. In
addition, a national bank can pay dividends only to the extent
of its undivided profits. KeyCorp’s national bank
subsidiaries are subject to these restrictions.

If, in the opinion of a federal banking agency, a depository
institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to
engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the
financial condition of the institution, could include the
payment of dividends), the agency may require that such
institution cease and desist from such practice. The OCC and the
FDIC have indicated that paying dividends that would deplete a
depository institution’s capital base to an inadequate
level would be an unsafe and unsound practice. Moreover, under
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the “FDIA”), an
insured depository institution may not pay any dividend
(i) if payment would cause it to become less than
“adequately capitalized,” or (ii) while it is in
default in the payment of an assessment due to the FDIC. See
“Regulatory Capital Standards and Related Matters –
Prompt Corrective Action”. Also, the federal banking
agencies have issued policy statements that provide that
FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies
should generally pay dividends only out of their current
operating earnings.

Holding Company Structure

Transactions Involving Bank Subsidiaries.

KeyCorp’s
national bank subsidiaries (and their operating subsidiaries)
are subject to Federal Reserve Act provisions, which impose
qualitative standards and



quantitative limitations upon certain transactions with or
involving KeyCorp (and its nonbank subsidiaries which are not
operating subsidiaries of KeyCorp’s national banks).
Transactions covered by these provisions, which include loans
and other extensions of credit as well as purchases and sales of
assets, must be on arm’s length terms, cannot exceed
certain amounts which are determined with reference to the
bank’s regulatory capital, and if a loan or other extension
of credit, must be secured by collateral in an amount and
quality expressly prescribed by statute. For example, the
aggregate of all such outstanding covered transactions by KBNA,
including its operating subsidiaries, with or involving KeyCorp
was limited at December 31, 2004, to approximately
$2.0 billion. As a result, these provisions materially
restrict the ability of KeyCorp’s national bank
subsidiaries to fund KeyCorp and its nonbank subsidiaries.

Source of Strength Doctrine.

Under Federal Reserve Board
policy, a bank holding company is expected to serve as a source
of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary
banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources
to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be
required at a time when KeyCorp may not have the resources to
provide it or would choose not to provide it. Certain loans by a
bank holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in
right of payment to deposits in, and certain other indebtedness
of, the subsidiary bank. In addition, federal law provides that
in the event of its bankruptcy, any commitment by a bank holding
company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the
capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy
trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

Depositor Preference.

The FDIA provides that, in the
event of the “liquidation or other resolution” of an
insured depository institution, the claims of its depositors
(including claims by the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors)
and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a
receiver would be afforded a priority over other general
unsecured claims against such an institution, including federal
funds and letters of credit. If an insured depository
institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors along with
the FDIC will be placed ahead of unsecured, nondeposit
creditors, including a parent holding company, in order of
priority of payment.

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.

Under the
FDIA, an insured depository institution which is under common
control with another insured depository institution is generally
liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably anticipated to be
incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of the
commonly controlled institution, or any assistance provided by
the FDIC to the commonly controlled institution which is in
danger of default. The term “default” is defined
generally to mean the appointment of a conservator or receiver
and the term “in danger of default” is defined
generally as the existence of certain conditions indicating that
a “default” is likely to occur in the absence of
regulatory assistance.

Regulatory Capital Standards and Related Matters

Risk-Based and Leverage Regulatory Capital.

Federal law
and regulation define and prescribe minimum levels of regulatory
capital for bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries.
Adequacy of regulatory capital is assessed periodically by the
federal banking agencies in the examination and supervision
process, and in the evaluation of applications in connection
with specific transactions and activities, including
acquisitions, expansion of existing activities, and commencement
of new activities.

Bank holding companies are subject to risk-based capital
guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve Board. These
guidelines establish minimum ratios of qualifying capital to
risk-weighted assets. Qualifying capital includes Tier 1
capital and Tier 2 capital. Risk-weighted assets are
calculated by assigning varying risk-weights to broad categories
of assets and off-balance-sheet exposures, based primarily on
counterparty credit risk. The required minimum Tier 1
risk-based capital ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1
capital by risk-weighted assets, is currently 4.00%. The
required minimum total risk-based capital ratio is currently
8.00%. It is calculated by dividing the sum of Tier 1
capital and Tier 2 capital (which cannot exceed the amount
of Tier 1 capital), after deducting for investments in
certain subsidiaries and associated companies and for reciprocal
holdings of capital instruments, by risk-weighted assets.

Tier 1 capital includes common equity, qualifying perpetual
preferred equity, and minority interests in the equity accounts
of consolidated subsidiaries less certain intangible assets
(including goodwill) and certain other assets. Tier 2
capital includes qualifying hybrid capital instruments,
perpetual debt, mandatory



convertible debt securities, perpetual preferred equity not
includable in Tier 1 capital, and limited amounts of term
subordinated debt, medium-term preferred equity, certain
unrealized holding gains on certain equity securities, and the
allowance for loan and lease losses.

Bank holding companies, such as KeyCorp, whose securities and
commodities trading activities exceed specified levels also are
required to maintain capital for market risk. Market risk
includes changes in the market value of trading account, foreign
exchange, and commodity positions, whether resulting from broad
market movements (such as changes in the general level of
interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, or
commodity prices) or from position specific factors (such as
idiosyncratic variation, event risk, and default risk). At
December 31, 2004, Key’s Tier 1 and Total capital
to risk-weighted assets ratios were 7.22% and 11.47%,
respectively, which include required adjustments for market risk.

In addition to the risk-based standard, bank holding companies
are subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s leverage ratio
guidelines. These guidelines establish minimum ratios of
Tier 1 capital to total assets. The minimum leverage ratio,
calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by average total
consolidated assets, is 3.00% for bank holding companies that
either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented
the Federal Reserve Board’s risk-based capital measure for
market risk. All other bank holding companies must maintain a
minimum leverage ratio of at least 4.00%. Neither KeyCorp nor
any of its bank subsidiaries has been advised by its primary
federal banking regulator of any specific leverage ratio
applicable to it. At December 31, 2004, Key’s
Tier 1 capital leverage ratio was 7.96%.

KeyCorp’s national bank subsidiaries are also subject to
risk-based and leverage capital requirements adopted by the OCC,
which are substantially similar to those imposed by the Federal
Reserve Board on bank holding companies. At December 31,
2004, each of KeyCorp’s national bank subsidiaries had
regulatory capital in excess of all minimum risk-based and
leverage capital requirements.

In addition to establishing regulatory minimum ratios of capital
to assets for all bank holding companies and their bank
subsidiaries, the risk-based and leverage capital guidelines
also identify various organization-specific factors and risks
that are not taken into account in the computation of the
capital ratios but that affect the overall supervisory
evaluation of a banking organization’s regulatory capital
adequacy and can result in the imposition of higher minimum
regulatory capital ratio requirements upon the particular
organization. Neither the Federal Reserve Board nor the OCC has
advised KeyCorp or any of its national bank subsidiaries of any
specific minimum risk-based or leverage capital ratio applicable
to KeyCorp or such national bank subsidiary. Additional
information regarding regulatory capital levels is included in
the “Capital” section beginning on page 32 of the
Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders.

Recourse Obligations, Direct Credit Substitutes, and Residual
Interests

. Specialized regulatory capital treatment is
prescribed for on-balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet
exposures consisting of recourse obligations, direct credit
substitutes, and residual interests that expose banking
organizations primarily to credit risk. This treatment includes
a concentration limit Tier 1 capital charge and a
dollar-for-dollar capital charge for certain types of residual
interests and the use of credit rating and certain alternative
approaches to match regulatory capital requirements more closely
to a banking organization’s relative risk of loss for
certain positions in asset securitizations.

Equity Investments in Nonfinancial Companies

. Specialized
regulatory capital treatment is prescribed for certain equity
investments made by banking organizations in companies engaged
in nonfinancial activities. This treatment imposes marginal
capital charges (applied by making deductions from Tier 1
capital) that increase as the banking organization’s
aggregate carrying amount of its covered equity investments
increase in relation to its Tier 1 capital. Such capital
charges range from 8% to 25% as such aggregate carrying amount
increases from 15% to 25% of the banking organization’s
Tier 1 capital.

Subprime Lending.

The federal banking agencies have
heightened supervisory expectations with respect to required
levels of capital for institutions with subprime lending
programs. For these purposes, a subprime lending program is one
that targets borrowers with weakened credit histories or
questionable repayment capacity. In addition to regulatory
capital, subprime lending supervisory guidance addresses
supervisory expectations with respect to risk management, the
allowance for loan and lease losses, portfolio and



transaction level examination review, analysis, and
classification, cure program documentation, and predatory or
abusive lending practices.

While this guidance principally applies to institutions with
subprime lending programs having an aggregate credit exposure of
at least 25% of Tier 1 capital, federal bank examiners may
apply it to other subprime portfolios, such as those that are
experiencing rapid growth or adverse performance trends, those
that are administered by inexperienced management, and those
that possess inadequate or weak controls. For an institution
that has subprime lending portfolio exposure equal to 25% or
more of the institution’s Tier 1 capital, the
supervisory guidance indicates that examiners are likely to
require that institution to hold capital in an amount that is
1.5 to 3.0 times greater than what is required for a portfolio
of non-subprime assets of a similar type. Neither the Federal
Reserve Board nor the OCC has advised Key of any capital
deficiency under this guidance.

Basel II Accord.

The current minimum risk-based capital
requirements adopted by the U.S. federal banking agencies are
based on an international accord that was developed by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision having member central bank and
bank supervision authority representation from Belgium, Canada,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United
States. In June 2004, the Basel Committee published its new
capital framework document (the “Basel II Accord”)
governing the capital adequacy of internationally active banking
organizations. The Basel II Accord will form the basis upon
which the agencies will develop proposed revisions to existing
risk-based capital adequacy regulations and standards. The
agencies anticipate publishing these proposed revisions in 2005,
and that the Basel II Accord will become fully effective in the
United States in January 2008.

The Basel II Accord adopts a three-pillar framework for
addressing capital adequacy — minimum capital
requirements, supervisory review, and market discipline. The
minimum capital requirement pillar includes capital charges for
credit, operational, and market risk exposures of a banking
organization. The supervisory review pillar addresses the need
for a banking organization to assess its capital adequacy
position relative to its overall risk, rather than only with
respect to its minimum capital requirement, as well as the need
for a banking organization supervisory authority to review and
respond to the banking organization’s capital adequacy
assessment. The market discipline pillar imposes public
disclosure requirements on a banking organization that are
intended to allow market participants to assess key information
about the organization’s risk profile and its associated
level of capital.

The agencies expect that only a small number of large,
internationally active U.S. banking organizations would be
required to use the Basel II Accord, and that those institutions
would use only the most advanced approaches for determining
their risk-based capital requirements. Application of the Basel
II Accord’s advanced approaches to other qualifying U.S.
banking organizations would be at the organization’s option.

Prompt Corrective Action.

The “prompt corrective
action” provisions of the FDIA create a statutory framework
that applies a system of both discretionary and mandatory
supervisory actions indexed to the capital level of FDIC-insured
depository institutions. These provisions impose progressively
more restrictive constraints on operations, management, and
capital distributions of an institution as its regulatory
capital decreases, or in some cases, based on supervisory
information other than the institution’s capital level.
This framework and the authority it confers on the federal
banking agencies supplements other existing authority vested in
such agencies to initiate supervisory actions to address capital
deficiencies. Moreover, other provisions of law and regulation
employ regulatory capital level designations the same as or
similar to those established by the prompt corrective action
provisions both in imposing certain restrictions and limitations
and in conferring certain economic and other benefits upon
institutions. These include restrictions on brokered deposits,
FDIC deposit insurance limits on pass-through deposits, limits
on exposure to interbank liabilities, risk-based FDIC deposit
insurance premium assessments, and expedited action upon
regulatory applications. FDIC-insured depository institutions are grouped into one of
five prompt corrective action capital categories – well
capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized,
significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized
– using the Tier 1 risk-based, total risk-based, and
Tier 1 leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital
measures. An institution is considered well capitalized if it
has a total risk-based capital ratio of at least



10.00%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.00%
and a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 5.00% and
is not subject to any written agreement, order or capital
directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any
capital measure. An adequately capitalized institution must have
a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.00%, a
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4.00% and a
Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 4.00% (3.00% if
it has achieved the highest composite rating in its most recent
examination) and is not well capitalized. At December 31,
2004, KBNA, KeyCorp’s only FDIC-insured depository
institution subsidiary, met the requirements for the “well
capitalized” capital category. An institution’s prompt
corrective action capital category, however, may not constitute
an accurate representation of the overall financial condition or
prospects of KeyCorp or its bank subsidiaries, and should be
considered in conjunction with other available information
regarding Key’s financial condition and results of
operations.

FDIC Deposit Insurance

Because substantially all of KBNA’s deposits are insured up
to applicable limits by the FDIC, KBNA is subject to deposit
insurance premium assessments by the FDIC to maintain the Bank
Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund of the
FDIC. The FDIC has adopted a risk-related deposit insurance
assessment system under which premiums, ranging in 2004 from
zero to $.27 for each $100 of domestic deposits, are imposed
based upon the depository institution’s capitalization and
federal supervisory evaluation. KBNA in 2004 qualified for a
deposit insurance assessment rate of zero. The FDIC is
authorized to increase deposit insurance premium assessments in
certain circumstances. Any such increase would have an adverse
effect on Key’s results of operations.

Financial Modernization Legislation

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the “GLBA”)
authorized new activities for qualifying financial institutions.
The GLBA repealed significant provisions of the
Glass–Steagall Act to permit commercial banks, among other
things, to have affiliates that underwrite and deal in
securities and make merchant banking investments. The GLBA
modified the BHCA to permit bank holding companies that meet
certain specified standards (known as “financial holding
companies”) to engage in a broader range of financial
activities than previously permitted under the BHCA, and allowed
subsidiaries of commercial banks that meet certain specified
standards (known as “financial subsidiaries”) to
engage in a wide range of financial activities that are
prohibited to such banks themselves. In 2000, KeyCorp elected to
become a financial holding company. Under the authority
conferred by the GLBA, Key has been able to expand the nature
and scope of its equity investments in nonfinancial companies,
operate its McDonald Investments Inc. subsidiary with fewer
operating restrictions, and acquire financial subsidiaries to
engage in real estate leasing and insurance agency activities
without geographic restriction.

The GLBA also established new privacy protections for customers
of financial institutions. Under federal law, a financial
institution must provide notice to customers about its privacy
policies and practices, describe the conditions under which the
financial institution may disclose nonpublic personal
information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties, and
provide an “opt-out” method for consumers to prevent
the financial institution from disclosing that information to
non-affiliated third parties.

The GLBA repealed the blanket exception for banks and savings
associations from the definitions of “broker” and
“dealer” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(the “Exchange Act”), and replaced this full exception
with functional exceptions. Under the statute, institutions that
engage in securities activities either must conduct those
activities through a registered broker-dealer or conform their
securities activities to those which qualify for functional
exceptions. While the requirements relating to dealer
registration became effective in September 2003, the SEC has
delayed the effective date of the requirements relating to
broker registration until March 2005 at the earliest.

USA PATRIOT Act

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate
Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001
(the “USA PATRIOT Act”) and the federal regulations
issued pursuant to it



substantially broaden previously existing anti-money laundering
law and regulation, increase compliance, due diligence and
reporting obligations for financial institutions, create new
crimes and penalties, and require the federal banking agencies,
in reviewing merger and other acquisition transactions, to
consider the effectiveness of the parties in combating money
laundering activities. Key believes its compliance policies,
procedures, and controls satisfy the material requirements of
the USA PATRIOT Act and the regulations implementing it that are
applicable to Key.

Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003

The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003
(“FACT Act”) imposes new requirements on financial
institutions regarding identify theft and reporting to credit
bureaus. The FACT Act also allows customers to choose to opt out
of having certain information shared across a financial
institution’s affiliates for market solicitation purposes.
Certain provisions of the FACT Act became effective at the end
of 2004, and the remainder will go into effect on various dates
in 2005. Compliance with the FACT Act requires Key to modify
numerous computer systems and to make operational changes in
several business areas. Key believes that the changes that it
has already made or will implement in 2005 will satisfy the
material requirements of the FACT Act and the regulations
implementing it.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The headquarters of KeyCorp and KBNA are located in Key Tower at
127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306. At
December 31, 2004, Key leased approximately 695,000 square
feet of the complex, encompassing the first twenty-three floors,
the 28th floor and the 54th through 56th floors of the 57-story
Key Tower. As of the same date, KBNA owned 519 and leased 416
retail banking branches. The lease terms for applicable retail
banking branches are not individually material, with terms
ranging from month-to-month to 99 years from inception.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The information presented in the Legal Proceedings section of
Note 18 (“Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and
Guarantees”), beginning on page 81 of the Financial Review
section of KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders, is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
HOLDERS

During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this
report, no matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of
KeyCorp.

PART II

ITEM
5.                     MARKET
FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER

MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The dividend restrictions discussion on page 3 of this report
and the following disclosures included in the Financial Review
section of KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated herein by reference:

Page

Discussion of common shares, shareholder information and
    repurchase activities presented in the “Capital”
    section


Presentation of quarterly market price and cash dividends per
    common share


Discussion of dividend restrictions presented in the
    “Liquidity risk management” section and in Note 5
    (“Restrictions on Cash, Dividends and Lending
    Activities”)

45, 65



ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The Selected Financial Data presented on page 14 of the
Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
    CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The information included under “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” presented on pages 10 through 48 of the
Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information included under the caption “Market risk
management” presented on pages 35 through 39 of the
Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The Selected Quarterly Financial Data and the financial
statements and the notes thereto, presented on page 48 and on
pages 51 through 88, respectively, of the Financial Review
section of KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
    AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

As of the end of the period covered by this report, KeyCorp
carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the
participation of KeyCorp’s management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of KeyCorp’s
disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon that evaluation,
KeyCorp’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that the design and operation of these
disclosure controls and procedures were effective, in all
material respects, as of the end of the period covered by this
report. No changes were made to KeyCorp’s internal control
over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
under the Exchange Act of 1934) during the last fiscal quarter
that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, KeyCorp’s internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting and the Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting on page 49 and on page 50, respectively, of the
Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item is set forth in the
sections captioned “Issue One — ELECTION OF
DIRECTORS” and “EXECUTIVE OFFICERS” contained in
KeyCorp’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 5, 2005 and is
incorporated herein by reference. The



information set forth in the sections captioned “AUDIT
COMMITTEE INDEPENDENCE” and “AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT” contained in KeyCorp’s definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
May 5, 2005 are not incorporated by reference in this
report on Form 10-K. KeyCorp expects to file its final
proxy statement on or before March 23, 2005.

KeyCorp has a separately designated standing audit committee
established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the
Exchange Act. Edward P. Campbell, Lauralee E. Martin, Eduardo R.
Menascé, Steven A. Minter, and Peter G. Ten Eyck, II are
members of the Audit Committee. The Board of Directors has
determined that each of Messrs. Campbell and Menascé
and Ms. Martin qualifies as an “audit committee
financial expert”, as defined in Item 401(h)(2) of
Regulation S-K and that each member of the Audit Committee
is “independent” as that term is used in
Item 7(d)(3)(iv) of Schedule 14A under the Exchange
Act.

KeyCorp has adopted a code of ethics that applies to all of its
employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and any persons
performing similar functions. The Code of Ethics is located on
KeyCorp’s website (www.key.com). Any amendment to, or
waiver from a provision of, the Code of Ethics that applies to
its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
Accounting Officer will be promptly disclosed on its website as
required by laws, rules and regulations of the SEC. Shareholders
may obtain a copy of the Code of Ethics free of charge by
writing KeyCorp Investor Relations, at 127 Public Square (Mail
Code OH-01-27-1113), Cleveland, OH 44114-1306.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is set forth in the
sections captioned “THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ITS
COMMITTEES,” “COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS”
and “EMPLOYMENT AND CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENTS”
contained in KeyCorp’s definitive Proxy Statement for the
2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 5, 2005
and is incorporated herein by reference. The information set
forth in the sections captioned “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
REPORT ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION” and “KEYCORP STOCK
PRICE PERFORMANCE” contained in KeyCorp’s definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held May 5, 2005 is not incorporated by reference in
this report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
    MANAGEMENT

The information required by this item is set forth in the
sections captioned “EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN
INFORMATION” and “SHARE OWNERSHIP AND PHANTOM STOCK
UNITS” contained in KeyCorp’s definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
May 5, 2005 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item is set forth in the
section captioned “Issue One — ELECTION OF
DIRECTORS” contained in KeyCorp’s definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
May 5, 2005 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item is set forth in the
sections captioned “AUDIT FEES”, “AUDIT-RELATED
FEES”, “TAX FEES” and “ALL OTHER FEES”
contained in KeyCorp’s definitive Proxy Statement for the
2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 5, 2005
and is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)(1) Financial Statements

The following financial statements of KeyCorp and its
subsidiaries, and the auditor’s report thereon, are
incorporated herein by reference to the pages indicated in the
Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders:

Page

Consolidated Financial Statements:

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2004 and 2003


Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
    for the Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow for the Years Ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules

All financial statement schedules for KeyCorp and its
subsidiaries have been included in the consolidated financial
statements or the related footnotes, or they are either
inapplicable or not required.

(a)(3) Exhibits*









KeyCorp hereby agrees to furnish the SEC upon request, copies of
instruments, including indentures, which define the rights of
long-term debt security holders.

All documents listed as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.73
constitute management contracts or compensatory plans or
arrangements.

*

Copies of these Exhibits have been filed with the SEC.
    Shareholders may obtain a copy of any exhibit, upon payment of
    reproduction costs, by writing KeyCorp Investor Relations, at
    127 Public Square (Mail Code OH-01-27-1113), Cleveland, OH
    44114-1306.

Information Available on Website

KeyCorp makes available free of charge on its website,
www.key.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable
after KeyCorp electronically files such material with, or
furnishes it to, the SEC. In addition, KeyCorp makes available
on its website its corporate governance guidelines and the
charters of its committees. Shareholders may obtain a copy of
any of these corporate governance documents free of charge by
writing KeyCorp Investor Relations, at 127 Public Square (Mail
Code OH-01-27-1113), Cleveland, OH 44114-1306.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the date
indicated.

KEYCORP

/s/

Thomas C. Stevens

Thomas C. Stevens

Vice Chairman and Chief Administrative Officer

February 28, 2005

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the date indicated.

/s/ Paul N. Harris

*

By Paul N. Harris, attorney-in-fact

February 28, 2005

16