Item 1A.    Risk Factors

The Company’s business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. The most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows:

Any reduction in global economic activity may harm theCompany’s business and financial condition.The demand for the Company’s services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the Company’s clients. Certain of the Company’s markets have recently experienced prolonged economic downturns characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. In addition, certain geopolitical events, including the ongoing negotiation of the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union (“Brexit”), have caused significant economic, market, political and regulatory uncertainty in some of the Company’s markets.  Any decline in the economic condition or employment levels of the U.S. or of any of the foreign countries in which the Company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the Company’s services and thereby significantly decrease the Company’s revenues and profits. Further, continued or intensifying economic, political or regulatory uncertainty in the Company’s markets could reduce demand for the Company’s services.

The Company’s business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results.As a provider of temporary and permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the Company’s reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants.  The Company depends on its reputation and name recognition to secure engagements and to hire qualified employees and consultants.  If the Company’s clients become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in or are believed to have engaged in conduct that is harmful to the Company’s clients, the Company’s ability to maintain or expand its client base may be harmed.

The Company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that could cause the Company to incur substantial liabilities










substantial liabilities or impact its operations in such a way that may have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, any future lawsuits, claims, disputes, or legal or regulatory proceedings may also consume substantial amounts of the Company’s financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these cases could cause the Company to change its compensation plans for its employees, which could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business.

The Company faces risks in operating internationally.

The Company could also be exposed to fines and penalties under U.S. or local jurisdiction trade sanctions and controls as well as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, it cannot be sure that its employees, contractors or agents will not violate such policies. Any such violations could materially damage the Company’s reputation, brand, business and operating results. Further, changes in U.S. laws and policies governing foreign trade or investment and use of foreign operations or workers, and any negative sentiments towards the United States as a result of such changes, could adversely affect the Company’s operations.

Government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce the Company’s future earnings.In many jurisdictions in which the Company operates, the employment services industry is heavily regulated. For example, governmental regulations in some countries restrict the length of contracts and the industries in which the Company’s employees may be used. In other countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of its employees. Additionally, trade unions in some countries have used the political process to target the industry, in an effort to increase the regulatory burden and expense associated with offering or utilizing temporary staffing solutions.

The countries in which we operate may, among other things:

•create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that the Company currently provides;

•require new or additional benefits be paid to the Company’s employees;

•require the Company to obtain additional licensing to provide employment services; or

•increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of temporary workers.

Any future regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results because they may make it more difficult or expensive for the Company to continue to provide employment services.  Additionally, as the Company expands existing service offerings, adds new service offerings, or enters new markets, it may become subject to additional restrictions and regulations which may impede its business, increase costs and impact profitability.

The Company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business.The Company’s staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. There can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the Company. Candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the Company and its competitors. Unemployment in the United States has been low in the past couple of years and has recently decreased further; some economists have speculated that in certain markets, the U.S. could be at or near full employment. This phenomenon has made finding sufficient eligible candidates to meet employers’










demands more challenging and further increases in the employment rates could compound these difficulties. Any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the Company.

The Company operates in a highly competitive businessand may be unable to retain clients or market share.The staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. There are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the Company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. In addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the Company’s revenue. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. Nor can there be any assurance that the Company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins.

The Company may incur potential liability to employees and clients.

The Company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such personnel could harm its business.The Company is engaged in the services business. As such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the Company has few). There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success.

The Company’s business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its business.

Health care reform could increase the costs of the Company’s temporary staffing operations.    In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “PPACA”) was signed into law in the United States. In 2015, the Company redesigned its employee benefits to offer health insurance coverage to its temporary candidates in order to meet the requirements of the PPACA’s employer mandate.

It is likely that President Trump and the U.S. Congress will continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the PPACA.  President Trump has issued multiple executive orders in support of repealing the PPACA,










in whole or in part, and the U.S. Congress has made several attempts to repeal or modify the PPACA.  It is unclear at this point what the scope of any future such legislation will be and when it will become effective. Because of the uncertainty surrounding this replacement health care reform legislation, we cannot predict with any certainty the likely impact of the PPACA’s repeal or the adoption of any other health care reform legislation on the Company’s financial condition or operating results. Whether or not there is alternative health care legislation enacted in the U.S., there is likely to be significant disruption to the health care market in the coming months and years and the costs of the Company’s health care expenditures may increase.

The Company’s computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption.

Changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations in respect of control of personal information could increase the Company’s costs or otherwise adversely impact its operations.

Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the Company’s financial reporting.Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the Company’s financial reporting. If the Company’s management is unable to certify the effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls are identified, the Company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. In addition, if the Company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall.

The Company’s results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if it cannot successfully keep pace with technological changes in the development and implementation of its services.The Company’s success depends on its ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the development and implementation of its services. The Company’s business is reliant on a variety of technologies, including those which support hiring and tracking, order management, billing, and client data analytics. If the Company does not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, appropriately implement new technologies, or evolve its business at sufficient speed and scale in response to such developments, or if it does not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments, the Company’s services, results of operations, and ability to develop and maintain its business could be negatively affected.

The demand for the Company’s services related to Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline.The operations of both the staffing services business andProtivitiinclude services related to Sarbanes-Oxley and other regulatory compliance. There can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. For example, the Jumpstart Our










Business Startup (“JOBS”) Act signed into law in April of 2012 allows most companies going public in the U.S. to defer implementation of some of the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley for up to five years after their initial public offering. Similarly there are a number of proposals currently being considered by the U.S. Congress to further delay or, in some cases, remove the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley for a number of public companies. Further, many analysts are expecting the U.S. Congress and President Trump to seek to repeal or modify legislation that is viewed as having over-regulated certain sectors of the U.S. economy and decreased the incentive for U.S. companies to go public and their ability to effectively compete with foreign competition. These or other similar modifications of the regulatory requirements could decrease demand for Protiviti’s services.

Long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the Company’s revenue.Because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the Company’s staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results.  Additionally, the Company’s clients will frequently enter into non-exclusive arrangements with several firms, which the client is generally able to terminate on short notice and without penalty. The nature of these arrangements further exacerbates the difficulty in predicting our future results.

U.S. federal tax regulations and interpretations could adversely affect the Company.

Protiviti may be unable to attract and retain key personnel.Protivitiis a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified, skilled personnel. WhileProtivitihas retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so.

Protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations.    Protivitioperates in a highly competitive business. As with the Company’s staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. There are many competitors, some of which have greater resources thanProtivitiand many of which have been in operation far longer thanProtiviti. In particular,Protivitifaces competition from the “big four” accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. Because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance thatProtivitiwill be successful in attracting and retaining clients or be able to maintain the technology, personnel and other requirements to successfully compete.

Protiviti’s operations could subject it to liability.The business ofProtiviticonsists of providing business consulting and internal audit services. Liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the Company orProtivitifor claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. There can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact onProtivitior the Company.



