Item 1A.RISK FACTORS.

Any of the
factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our operations.

We face
intense competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers, including both innovative medicines and lower-priced generic products.

Competition from manufacturers of competing products, including lower-priced generic versions of our products is a major challenge, both within the U.S. and internationally. We are facing patent
expirations and increasingly aggressive generic competition. Such competition may include (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices or superior performance features or that are otherwise competitive with our current
products; (ii) technological advances and patents attained by competitors; (iii) results of clinical studies related to our products or a competitor’s products; (iv) earlier-than-expected competition from generic companies; and
(v) business combinations among our competitors and major customers. We also could experience limited or no market access due to real or perceived differences in value propositions of our products compared with competing products.

We depend on key products for most of our net sales, cash flows and earnings.

We derive a majority of our revenue and earnings from a few key products. In 2010, net sales of PLAVIX* contributed approximately $6.7
billion, representing approximately 34% of total net sales. Net sales of ABILIFY* contributed approximately $2.6 billion, representing approximately 13% of total net sales. Three other products (AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, REYATAZ and the SUSTIVA Franchise)
each contributed more than $1.1 billion in net sales. A reduction in sales of one or more of these or other key products could significantly negatively impact our net sales, cash flows and earnings. In January 2011, we and our partner sanofi
voluntarily recalled certain lots of AVALIDE* from the U.S., Puerto Rican, Canadian, Mexican and Argentinean markets. Supply of AVALIDE* to these markets may be affected indefinitely. Total AVALIDE* sales in these countries were $355 million in
2010. We are working with our partner sanofi to identify all possible solutions to this issue, including process adjustments and alternate supply sources. If we are unable to resupply to these markets in a timely manner, this may have a negative
impact on our net sales, cash flows and earnings.

Market exclusivity for PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in the U.S.
is expected to expire in May 2012 and March 2012, respectively.

PLAVIX* is our top-selling product, with worldwide
net sales of approximately $6.7 billion and U.S. net sales of approximately $6.2 billion in 2010. We expect that when PLAVIX* loses exclusivity in May 2012, there may be a rapid, precipitous and material decline in PLAVIX* net sales and a reduction
in net income and operating cash flow. AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* loses patent protection in March 2012 after which we may experience a precipitous decline in AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* net sales. If we are unable to support and grow our currently marketed products,
advance our late-stage pipeline and manage our costs effectively, the loss of exclusivity for PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* could have a significant or material negative impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Data protection for PLAVIX* has expired in the EU and PLAVIX* faces competition in European markets.

Data protection for PLAVIX* expired on July 15, 2008 in the EU and PLAVIX* faces competition from generic and
alternate salt forms of clopidogrel bisulfate throughout the EU. Over the last two years, PLAVIX* has experienced substantial market share erosion and price discounts. In 2010, PLAVIX* sales in the EU decreased and, as such, our international net
sales from PLAVIX* and our equity in net income of affiliates decreased by 13% and 43%, respectively, compared to 2009 and are expected to continue to decline in 2011.

It is possible that we may lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.

In the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. In the U.S.
and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there are usually very substantial and rapid declines in the product’s sales. The rate of this decline varies by country and
by therapeutic category.

Market exclusivity for our products is based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory
forms of exclusivity. The scope of our patent rights may vary from country to country and may also be dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in that country. The failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or
limitations on the use or loss of such rights, could be material to us. In some countries, including in certain EU member states, basic patent protection for our products may not exist because certain countries did not historically offer the right
to obtain certain types of patents and/or we (or our licensors) did not file in those markets. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic versions of the product can be approved and marketed,
such as generic clopidogrel bisulfate in certain EU markets. In addition, prior to the expiration of data exclusivity, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval.







Manufacturers of generic products are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents
before they expire. Key patents covering five of our key products (ABILIFY*, ATRIPLA*, BARACLUDE, REYATAZ, and SPRYCEL) are currently the subject of patent litigation. In some cases, generic manufacturers may choose to launch a generic product
“at risk” before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. The length of market exclusivity for any of our products is impossible to predict with certainty and there can be
no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimates disclosed in this Form 10-K.

We face increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and programs that could negatively
affect our net sales and profit margins.

Pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing price pressures and
other restrictions in the U.S. and worldwide, including (i) rules and practices of managed care organizations and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare,
Medicaid and U.S. healthcare reform, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, (iii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative
and/or regulatory changes, pharmaceutical reimbursement, Medicare Part D Formularies and product pricing in general, (iv) delays in gaining reimbursement and/or reductions in reimbursement amounts in countries with government mandated,
cost-containment programs (e.g., major European markets, Japan and Canada), (v) other developments in technology and/or industry practices that could directly or indirectly impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers,
and (vi) limited or no market access due to real or perceived differences in value propositions of our products compared to competing products.

Our business and results of operations have been affected, and will continue to be affected, by recent U.S. healthcare reform legislation in the U.S.

U.S. and foreign laws and
regulations may negatively affect our net sales and profit margins.

We could become subject to new government laws
and regulations, such as (i) additional healthcare reform initiatives in the U.S. at the Federal and state level and in other countries, including additional mandatory discounts; (ii) changes in the U.S. FDA and foreign regulatory approval
processes that may cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii) tax changes such as the phasing out of tax benefits heretofore available in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries or other changes in tax law
such as the recent amendment to the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code of 1994 imposing an excise tax on certain transactions, which could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations; (iv) new laws, regulations and judicial
or other governmental decisions affecting pricing, reimbursement or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (v) changes in intellectual property law; and (vi) other matters, such as compulsory licenses that could alter the protections
afforded to one or more of our products. Any legal or regulatory changes could negatively affect our business, and/or our operating results and the financial condition of our Company.

Changes to the product labeling for any of our marketed products or results from certain studies released after a product is
approved could potentially have a negative impact on sales of that product.







We may experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale
of our products.

In 2010, we received a warning letter
from the FDA regarding our manufacturing facility in Manati, Puerto Rico. The warning letter focused on certain GMP processes and practices, which the FDA identified during an inspection, that were to be improved or remediated. We have provided a
response to the warning letter and have informed the FDA that the Manati facility is inspection-ready. If we are unable to timely and adequately improve or remediate the GMP issues identified to the FDA’s satisfaction, we could be subject to
additional inspectional observations by the FDA requiring remediation. If any of these observations are serious, we could face additional negative consequences including a temporary delay in production at the facility for further corrective action
or delay in approval of filings.

In January 2011, we and our partner sanofi voluntarily recalled certain lots of
AVALIDE* from the U.S., Puerto Rican, Canadian, Mexican and Argentinean markets. We are working with our partner sanofi to identify all possible solutions to this issue, including process adjustments and alternate supply sources. If we are unable to
resupply to these markets in a timely manner, this may have a negative impact on our net sales, cash flows and earnings.

The resolution of the manufacturing and supply issues discussed in this Form 10-K, as well as the potential impact of those issues on
our revenues and earnings, are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include the timing, scope and duration for resolving the manufacturing and supply issues.

We may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.

There are legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect our business.

We are currently involved in or could in the future become involved in various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and
government investigations, any of which can preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition after any possible insurance recoveries where available. Such legal matters
include (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) sales and marketing practices in the U.S. and internationally; (iii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iv) recalls or withdrawals
of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers which may result in liability; (vi) product pricing and
promotional matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting violations of securities, antitrust, federal and state pricing, antibribery (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act) and other laws; (viii) environmental, health and safety
matters; and (ix) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in scope in any or all of these matters or there will not be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future; nor is there
any assurance that any or all of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on us.







We rely on third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations.

We rely on suppliers, vendors and partners, including alliances with other pharmaceutical companies for the
manufacturing, development and commercialization of products, and other third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations in relation to their arrangements with us. The failure of these parties to meet their obligations,
and/or the development of significant disagreements or other factors that materially disrupt the ongoing commercial relationship and prevent optimal alignment between the partners and their activities, could have a material adverse impact on us. In
addition, if these parties violate or are alleged to have violated any laws or regulations during the performance of their obligations for us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputational harm or other negative outcomes, including
possible legal consequences.

We are increasingly dependent on our outsourcing arrangements.

We are increasing our dependence on third-party providers for certain outsourced services, including certain research and development
capabilities, certain financial outsourcing arrangements, certain human resource functions, and information technology activities and systems. Many of these third-party providers are located in markets that are subject to political risk, corruption,
infrastructure problems and natural disasters in addition to country specific privacy and data security risks given current legal and regulatory environments. The failure of these service providers to meet their obligations, adequately deploy
business continuity plans in the event of a crisis and/or the development of significant disagreements, natural or man made disasters or other factors that materially disrupt our ongoing relationship with these providers could negatively affect
operations.

Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability.

We are increasingly dependent on information technology and expanding social media vehicles present new
risks.

We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and any significant breakdown, invasion,
destruction or interruption of these systems could negatively impact operations. In addition, there is a risk of business interruption or reputational damage from an infiltration of a data center or data leakage of confidential information both
internally and at our third-party providers.

The inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage
or information leakage or could lead to legal implications from the improper collection of personal information. Negative posts or comments about us on any social networking web site could seriously damage our reputation. In addition, the disclosure
of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss as there might not be structured processes in place to secure and achieve this information. Identifying new points of entry as social media
continues to expand presents new challenges.

Adverse changes in U.S., global, or regional economic conditions could
have a continuing adverse effect on the profitability of some or all of our businesses.

High government debt
burdens and continued high unemployment rates, rising prices, including those related to commodities and energy, and lower economic growth has adversely affected commercial activity in the U.S., Europe and other regions of the world in which we do
business. Further government austerity measures or declines in economic activity in markets in which we do business could adversely affect demand and pricing for our products, thus reducing our revenues, earnings and cash flow, as well as have
pass-through effects on us resulting from any significant financial instability from our customers, distributors, alliance partners, suppliers, critical vendors, service providers and counterparties to certain financial instruments, such as
marketable securities and derivatives. Future pension plan funding requirements continue to be sensitive to global economic conditions and related impact on equity markets.







Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.

We have significant operations outside of the U.S. Revenues from
operations outside of the U.S. accounted for 35% of our revenues in 2010. As such, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We also have significant borrowings which are exposed to changes in interest rates. We are also
exposed to other economic factors over which we have no control.

The illegal distribution and sale by third parties
of counterfeit versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.

Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet the rigorous manufacturing and
testing standards that our products undergo. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under the name
of one of our products. In addition, thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants or while in-transit which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business.







