10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission File No. 1-4982

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code (216) 896-3000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange

on which Registered

Common Shares, $.50 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes

x

.    No

¨

.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes

x

No

¨

.

The approximate aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant as of December 31, 2003, excluding, for purposes of this computation only, stock holdings of the Registrant’s Directors and Officers: $7,065,377,992.

The number of Common Shares outstanding on July 31, 2004 was 119,441,795.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the following documents are incorporated by reference:

(1)

Annual Report to Shareholders of the Company for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 is incorporated by reference into Parts I and II hereof.

(2)

Definitive Proxy Statement for the Company’s 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on October 27, 2004 is incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

FORM 10-K

Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2004

PART I

ITEM 1

.

Business

. Parker-Hannifin Corporation is a leading worldwide full-line manufacturer of motion control products, including
fluid power systems, electromechanical controls and related components. Fluid power involves the transfer and control of power through the medium of liquid, gas or air, in hydraulic, pneumatic and vacuum applications. Fluid power systems move and
position materials, control machines, vehicles and equipment and improve industrial efficiency and productivity. Components of a simple fluid power system include one or more pumps which generate pressure, one or more valves which control the
fluid’s flow, one or more actuators which translate the pressure from the fluid into mechanical energy, one or more filters to insure proper fluid condition and numerous hoses, couplings, fittings and seals. Electromechanical control involves
the use of electronic components and systems to control motion and precisely locate or vary speed in automation and aerospace applications. In addition to motion control products, the Company also is a leading worldwide producer of fluid
purification, fluid and fuel control, process instrumentation, air conditioning, refrigeration, electromagnetic shielding and thermal management products and systems. Also, through Astron Buildings (“Astron”), the Company designs and
manufactures custom-engineered buildings and through Wynn Oil Company and its subsidiaries (the “Wynn’s Specialty Chemical Group”), the Company develops, manufactures and markets specialty chemical products and maintenance service
equipment.

The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1938. Its
principal executive offices are located at 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141, telephone (216) 896-3000. As used in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, the term “Company” or “Parker” refers to
Parker-Hannifin Corporation and its subsidiaries.

The
Company’s investor relations internet website address is

www.phstock.com

. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K,
and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing such material electronically with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.

The Board of Directors adopted a written
charter for each of the committees of the Board of Directors. These charters, as well as the Company’s Code of Ethics, Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues and Independence Standards for Directors, are posted and available on the
Company’s investor relations internet website at

www.phstock.com

under the Corporate Governance page. Shareholders may request copies of these corporate governance documents, free of charge, by writing to Parker-Hannifin Corporation,
6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141, Attention: Secretary, or by calling (216) 896-3000.

-1-

The Company’s manufacturing, service, distribution and administrative facilities are located in 37
states and in 46 foreign countries. Its motion control technology is used in Products of its four business Segments: Industrial; Aerospace; Climate & Industrial Controls; and Other. The products are sold as original and replacement equipment
through product and distribution centers worldwide. The Company markets its products through direct-sales employees, independent distributors, sales representatives and builder/dealers. Parker products are supplied to approximately 390,000 customers
in virtually every significant manufacturing, transportation and processing industry. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, total net sales were $7,106,907,000; Industrial Segment products accounted for 72% of net sales, Aerospace Segment
products for 16%, Climate & Industrial Controls Segment products for 9% and Other Segment products for 3%.

Markets

Motion
control systems are used throughout industry in applications which include moving materials; controlling machines, vehicles and equipment; and positioning materials during manufacturing processes. Motion control systems contribute to the efficient
use of energy and improve industrial productivity.

The
approximately 390,000 customers who purchase the Company’s products are found throughout virtually every significant manufacturing, transportation and processing industries. No single customer accounted for more than 4% of the Company’s
total net sales for the fiscal year.

Major markets for
products of the Fluid Connectors, Hydraulics, Automation and Seal Groups of the Industrial Segment are agricultural machinery, analytical instrumentation, automotive, construction machinery, electronic equipment, fabricated metals, food production,
industrial machinery, pulp and paper, machine tools, marine, medical devices, mining, mobile equipment, chemicals, robotics, semi-conductor equipment, telecommunications, textiles, transportation and every other major production and processing
industry. Major markets for products manufactured by the Instrumentation Group of the Industrial Segment are power generation, oil and gas exploration, petrochemical and chemical processing, pulp and paper, and semi-conductor manufacturing. Major
markets for products of the Filtration Group of the Industrial Segment are industrial machinery, mobile equipment, diesel engines, process equipment, marine, aviation, environmental and semi-conductor manufacturing. Sales of Industrial Segment
products are made to original equipment manufacturers and their replacement markets.

Aerospace Segment sales are made primarily to original equipment manufacturers in the commercial, military and general aviation markets and to end users for maintenance, repair and overhaul.

Products manufactured by the Climate & Industrial Controls Segment are
used principally in mobile air conditioning systems, industrial refrigeration systems, residential and commercial air conditioning systems and equipment and industrial fluid control markets. Sales of the Climate & Industrial Controls Segment are
made to original equipment manufacturers and their replacement markets.

-2-

Astron of the Other Segment produces pre-engineered single and multi-story buildings that serve
industries throughout Europe. The Wynn’s Specialty Chemical Group of the Other Segment develops and manufactures a wide variety of specialty chemical car care products that are marketed to automobile service technicians and consumers.

Principal Products, Methods of Distribution and Competitive
Conditions

Industrial Segment

. The
product lines of the Company’s Industrial Segment consist of systems and components of motion control. The Fluid Connectors Group manufactures connectors, including tube fittings, hose fittings, valves, hoses and couplers, which control,
transmit and contain fluid. The Hydraulics Group produces hydraulic components and systems for builders and users of industrial and mobile machinery and equipment, such as cylinders, accumulators, rotary actuators, valves, motors and pumps,
hydrostatic steering units, power units, integrated hydraulic circuits, electrohydraulic systems, digitally controlled fan-drive systems, and power take-off equipment. The Automation Group supplies pneumatic and electromechanical components and
systems. Pneumatic products include pneumatic valves, air preparation units, pneumatic actuators, vacuum products, pneumatic logic systems, and structural extrusions. Electromechanical products include human-machine interface hardware and software;
industrial PCs; single and multi-axis stand-alone and bus-based controllers; rotary and linear servo motors; rotary and linear stepper motors; analog and digital stepper and servo drives; precision gearheads, ballscrew, belt, and linear motor driven
positioning tables; electric rod-style and rodless cylinders; and gantry robots. The Seal Group manufactures sealing devices, including o-rings and o-seals; gaskets and packings, which insure leak-proof connections; electromagnetic interference
shielding; and thermal management products. The Filtration Group manufactures filters, systems and instruments to monitor and to remove contaminants from fuel, air, oil, water and other fluids and gases, including hydraulic, lubrication and coolant
filters; process, chemical and microfiltration filters; compressed air and gas purification filters; lube oil and fuel filters; fuel conditioning filters; fuel filters/water separators; cabin air filters; intake air filters; and nitrogen and
hydrogen generators and condition monitoring devices. The Instrumentation Group manufactures high quality critical flow components for process instrumentation and ultra-high-purity applications, including fittings, valves, regulators and PTFE
products.

Industrial Segment products include custom units
which are engineered and produced to original equipment manufacturers’ specifications for application to a particular end product and standard items. Both custom and standard products are also used in the replacement of original motion control
system components. Industrial Segment products are marketed primarily through field sales employees and more than 8,600 independent distributors.

Aerospace Segment

. Principal products of the Company’s Aerospace Segment are hydraulic, fuel and pneumatic systems and components used
on commercial and military airframe and engine programs.

-3-

The Aerospace Segment offers complete hydraulic and primary flight control systems that include
hydraulic, electrohydraulic and electromechanical components used for precise control of aircraft rudders, elevators, ailerons and other aerodynamic control surfaces and utility hydraulic components such as reservoirs, accumulators, selector valves,
electrohydraulic servovalves, thrust-reverser actuators, engine-driven pumps, motor pumps, nosewheel steering systems, electromechanical actuators, engine controls and electronic controllers. The Aerospace Segment also designs and manufactures
aircraft wheels and brakes for general aviation and military markets.

The Aerospace fuel product line includes complete fuel systems as well as components such as fuel transfer and pressurization controls; in-flight refueling systems; fuel pumps and valves; fuel measurement and management systems; center of
gravity controls; engine fuel injection atomization nozzles, manifolds and augmentor controls; and electronic monitoring computers.

Pneumatic components include bleed air control systems, pressure regulators, low-pressure pneumatic controls, engine starter systems, engine bleed control
and anti-ice systems, and electronic control and monitoring computers.

Aerospace Segment products are marketed by the Company’s regional sales organization and are sold directly to manufacturers and end users.

Climate & Industrial Controls Segment

. The principal products of the Company’s Climate & Industrial Controls Segment are
refrigeration and air conditioning systems and components and fluid control process systems and components for use primarily in the mobile and stationary refrigeration and air conditioning industry.

The Climate & Industrial Controls Segment manufactures components and
systems for use in industrial, residential, commercial, automotive and mobile air conditioning and refrigeration systems and other applications, including pressure regulators, solenoid valves, expansion valves, filter-dryers, gerotors and hose
assemblies. The Climate & Industrial Controls Segment products are marketed primarily through field sales employees and independent distributors and wholesalers.

Other Segment

. The principal products of the Company’s Other Segment are custom-engineered buildings
which are designed and manufactured by Astron; and automotive chemical products and professional automotive service equipment that are developed by the Wynn’s Specialty Chemical Group.

Astron’s pre-engineered single and multi-story buildings serve as
factories, warehouses, aircraft hangars, indoor athletic facilities, automobile showrooms, offices and supermarkets. Astron’s custom-engineered buildings are marketed primarily through builder/dealers and field sales employees.

The Wynn’s Specialty Chemical Group’s product line includes
professional chemical products, programs and equipment for automobile service technicians and automotive chemical products for consumers. Products are marketed primarily to consumers, automobile dealerships and other automotive service facilities
and are distributed through a strong network of independent distributors as well as a direct sales force.

-4-

Competition

. All aspects of the Company’s business are highly competitive. No single
manufacturer competes with respect to all products manufactured and sold by the Company and the degree of competition varies with different products. In the Industrial Segment, the Company competes on the basis of product quality and innovation,
customer service, manufacturing and distribution capability, and competitive price. The Company believes that, in most of the major markets for its Industrial Segment products, it is one of the principal suppliers of motion control systems and
components. In the Aerospace Segment, the Company has developed alliances with key customers based on the Company’s advanced technological and engineering capabilities, superior performance in quality, delivery, and service, and price
competitiveness, which has enabled the Company to obtain significant original equipment business on new aircraft programs for its systems and components and, thereby, obtain the follow-on repair and replacement business for these programs. The
Company believes that it is one of the primary suppliers in the aerospace marketplace.

In the Climate & Industrial Controls Segment, the Company competes on the basis of product quality and innovation, customer service, manufacturing and distribution capability, and competitive price. The Company
believes that it is one of the principal suppliers in the climate and industrial controls marketplace.

In the Other Segment, the Company competes on the basis of product quality and performance, strong brand recognition (Wynn’s) and competitive price.
The Company believes that through Astron it is one of the primary suppliers of steel buildings in Europe and through Wynn’s it is one of the principal suppliers of specialty chemicals and related services in the transportation marketplace.

Research and Product Development

The Company continually researches the feasibility of new products through
its development laboratories and testing facilities in many of its worldwide manufacturing locations. Its research and product development staff includes chemists, mechanical, electronic and electrical engineers and physicists.

Research and development costs relating to the development of new products or
services and the improvement of existing products or services amounted to $143,096,000 in fiscal year 2004, $122,710,000 in fiscal year 2003 and $109,090,000 in fiscal year 2002. Reimbursements of customer-sponsored research included in the total
cost for each of the respective fiscal years were $48,435,000, $29,561,000 and $13,517,000.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses

The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to its products and has exclusive and non-exclusive rights under patents owned by others. In addition, patent applications on certain products are
now pending, although there can be no assurance that patents will be issued. The Company is not dependent to any material extent on any single patent or group of patents.

-5-

Backlog and Seasonal Nature of Business

The Company’s backlog at June 30, 2004 was approximately $2,203,732,000 and at June 30, 2003 was approximately
$1,803,091,000. Approximately 82.2% of the Company’s backlog at June 30, 2004 is scheduled for delivery in the succeeding twelve months. The Company’s business generally is not seasonal in nature.

Environmental Regulation

The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations
designed to protect the environment and to regulate the discharge of materials into the environment. Among other environmental laws, the Company is subject to the federal “Superfund” law, under which the Company has been designated as a
“potentially responsible party” and may be liable for cleanup costs associated with various waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Superfund priority list.

As of June 30, 2004, the Company is involved in environmental remediation at
28 manufacturing facilities presently or formerly operated by the Company and has been named as a “potentially responsible party,” along with other companies, at two off-site waste disposal facilities and three regional sites.

The Company believes that its policies, practices and procedures are
properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and the consequent financial liability to the Company. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations requires continuing management effort and expenditures by the Company.
Compliance with environmental laws and regulations has not had in the past, and, the Company believes, will not have in the future, material effects on the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the Company.

As of June 30, 2004, the Company has a reserve of $20,361,000 for
environmental matters which are probable and reasonably estimable. This reserve is recorded based upon the best estimate of costs to be incurred in light of the progress made in determining the magnitude of remediation costs, the timing and extent
of remedial actions required by governmental authorities and the amount of the Company’s liability in proportion to other responsible parties.

The Company’s estimated total liability for the above mentioned sites ranges from a minimum of $20,361,000 to a maximum of $60,439,000. The actual
costs to be incurred by the Company will be dependent on final delineation of contamination, final determination of remedial action required, negotiations with federal and state agencies with respect to cleanup levels, changes in regulatory
requirements, innovations in investigatory and remedial technology, effectiveness of remedial technologies employed, the ultimate ability to pay of the other responsible parties, and any insurance or third party recoveries.

-6-

Energy Matters and Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

The Company’s primary energy source for each of its business segments
is electric power. While the Company cannot predict future costs of such electric power, the primary source for production of the required electric power will be coal from substantial, proven coal reserves available to electric utilities. The
Company is subject to governmental regulations in regard to energy supplies both in the United States and elsewhere. To date the Company has not experienced any significant disruptions of its operations due to energy curtailments.

Steel, brass, aluminum, elastomeric materials and chemicals are the principal
raw materials used by the Company. These materials are available from numerous sources in quantities sufficient to meet the requirements of the Company.

Employees

The Company employed 48,447 persons as of June 30, 2004, of whom approximately 21,290 were employed by foreign subsidiaries.

Business Segment Information

The Company’s net sales, segment operating income and identifiable
assets by business segment and net sales and long-lived assets by geographic area for the past three fiscal years, as set forth on pages 13-15 to 13-16 of Exhibit 13 hereto, are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 1A. Executive Officers of the Company

The Company’s Executive Officers are as follows:

-7-

(1)

Officers of the Company serve for a term of office from the date of election to the next organizational meeting of the Board of Directors and until their respective successors are
elected, except in the case of death, resignation or removal. Messrs. Cortright, Garey and Piraino have served in the executive capacities indicated above during the past five years.

Mr. Washkewicz was elected Chief Executive Officer effective in July 2001 and
President in February 2000. He was Chief Operating Officer from February 2000 to July 2001; and Vice President and President of the Hydraulics Group from October 1997 to February 2000.

Mr. Vande Steeg was named Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer effective in October 2003 . He was Senior
Vice President from August 2002 to October 2003; Operating Officer from January 2002 to October 2003; Corporate Vice President from January 2002 to August 2002; Vice President from September 1995 to January 2002; and President of the Seal Group from
1987 to January 2002.

-8-

Mr. Myslenski was named Executive Vice President – Sales, Marketing and Operations Support effective
in October 2003. He was Senior Vice President from August 2002 to October 2003; Operating Officer from October 2001 to October 2003; Corporate Vice President from July 2001 to August 2002; Vice President from October 1997 to July 2001; and President
of the Fluid Connectors Group from July 1997 to July 2001.

Mr.
Pistell was elected as Vice President – Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer effective in April 2003. He was a Vice President from October 2001 to April 2003; and Treasurer from July 1993 to April 2003.

Mr. Banks was elected as a Vice President in October 2001 and named President
of the Hydraulics Group effective in October 2003. He was President of the Instrumentation Group from July 2001 to November 2003; Vice President – Operations of the Climate & Industrial Controls Group from January 2001 to July 2001; and
General Manager of the Skinner Valve Division from August 1997 to January 2001.

Mr. Barker was elected as a Vice President in April 2003 and named President of the Aerospace Group effective in March 2003. He was Vice President-Operations of the Aerospace Group from April 1996 to March 2003.

Mr. Bond was elected as a Vice President in July 2000 and
named President of the Automation Group effective in April 2000. He was Vice President – Operations of the Fluid Connectors Group from July 1997 to April 2000.

Mr. Dennis was elected as a Vice President in October 2001 and as Controller effective in July 1999.

Mr. Droxner was elected as Vice President and named President of the Seal
Group effective in January 2002. He was President of the Seal Group Europe from July 1999 to January 2002.

Mr. Eline was elected as Vice President – Chief Information Officer effective in August 2002. He was Vice President – Information Technology
International from July 2000 to August 2002 and Vice President – Enterprise Systems International from October 1987 to July 2000.

Ms. Huggins was elected as a Vice President and Treasurer in April 2003. She was Vice President and Controller of the Filtration Group from June 1999 to
April 2003 and Corporate Financial Services Manager from April 1996 to June 1999.

Mr. Kashkoush was named Vice President – Worldwide Sales and Marketing in October 2003. He was Vice President from July 2000 to October 2003; President of the Hydraulics Group from February 2000 to October 2003;
and President of the European Operations of the Hydraulics Group from February 1999 to February 2000.

-9-

Mr. Mackie was elected as a Vice President in July 2000 and named President of the Fluid Connectors Group
in July 2001. He was President of the Instrumentation Group from July 1997 to July 2001.

Mr. Maxwell was elected as Vice President – Technology and Innovation in July 2003. He was Vice President – Engineering and Innovation from January 2003 to July 2003; Business Unit Manager of the Fluid
Control Division from July 2002 to January 2003; and Engineering Manager of the Racor Division from July 1998 to July 2002.

Mr. Oelslager was elected as a Vice President in October 1997 and named President of the Filtration Group effective in March 2000. He was President of the
Automation Group from July 1997 to March 2000.

Mr. Sherrard
was elected as a Vice President and named President of the Instrumentation Group effective in November 2003. He was General Manager of the Automation Actuator Division from May 2000 to November 2003 and Manufacturing Manager of the Automation
Actuator Division from July 1997 to May 2000.

ITEM

.

Properties

. The following table sets forth the principal plants and other materially important properties of the Company and its subsidiaries. Leased properties are indicated with an asterisk. A “(1)” indicates that the
property is occupied by the Company’s Industrial Segment, a “(2)” indicates that the property is occupied by the Company’s Aerospace Segment, a “(3)” indicates that the property is occupied by the Company’s Climate
& Industrial Controls Segment, and a “(4)” indicates that the property is occupied by the Company’s Other Segment.

-10-

-11-

-12-

-13-

-14-

-15-

The Company believes
that its properties have been adequately maintained, are in good condition generally and are suitable and adequate for its business as presently conducted. The extent of utilization of the Company’s properties varies among its plants and from
time to time. The Company’s restructuring efforts over the past several years have brought capacity levels closer to present and anticipated needs. Although capacity has been reduced over the last fiscal year, most of the Company’s
material manufacturing facilities remain capable of handling additional volume increases.

ITEM 3

.

Legal Proceedings

. None.

ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

None.

-16-

PART II

ITEM 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

(a)

As of July 31, 2004, the number of shareholders of record of the Company was 4,955 and the number of beneficial owners was approximately 54,680. Information regarding stock price
and dividend information with respect to the Company’s common stock, as set forth on page 13-38 of Exhibit 13 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.

(b)

Use of Proceeds

.

Not Applicable.

(c)

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

(1)

On August 16, 1990, the Registrant publicly announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 3.0 million shares of its common stock. Such amount was
subsequently adjusted to 6.75 million shares as a result of stock splits in June 1995 and September 1997. On July 14, 1998, the Registrant publicly announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 4.0 million shares
of its common stock. There is no expiration date for the Registrant’s repurchase program.

ITEM 6

.

Selected Financial Data

. The information set forth on page 13-41 of Exhibit 13 hereto is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7

.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

. The information set forth on pages 13-2 to 13-13 of Exhibit 13 hereto is incorporated herein by reference.

-17-

ITEM 7A

.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

. The
Company enters into forward exchange contracts and costless collar contracts to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies. The total value of open contracts and any risk to the Company as a result of these arrangements is not
material to the Company’s financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

The Company’s debt portfolio contains variable rate debt, inherently exposing the Company to interest rate risk. The Company’s objective is to maintain a 60/40 mix between fixed rate and variable rate debt
thereby limiting its exposure to changes in near term interest rates. A one hundred basis point increase in near term interest rates would increase annual interest expense on variable rate debt by approximately $400,000.

For further discussion see the Significant Accounting Policies Footnote on
page 13-21 of Exhibit 13 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8

.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

. The information set forth on pages 13-14 to 13-41 of Exhibit 13 hereto is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

. Not applicable.

ITEM
9A.

Controls and Procedures

.

The Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s principal executive officer and principal financial
officer, of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2004. Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, have
concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in all material respects, to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports the Company files and submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms.

The Company periodically conducts an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the
Company’s principal executive officer and principal financial officer as well as the Company’s Audit Committee and independent auditors, of its internal controls and procedures. There have been no significant changes in the Company’s
internal controls or in other factors that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal controls.

ITEM 9B. Other Information

. Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10

.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

. Information required with respect to the Directors of the Company is set
forth under the caption “Election of Directors” in the definitive Proxy Statement for the Company’s 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held October

-18-

27, 2004 (“2004 Proxy Statement”) and is incorporated herein by reference. Information with respect to the
executive officers of the Company is included in Part I hereof under the caption “Executive Officers of the Company”. The information set forth under the captions “Audit Committee Financial Expert” and “Report of the Audit
Committee” in the 2004 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

The information set forth under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the 2004 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

The Company has adopted procedures by which its shareholders may recommend
nominees to the Company’s Board of Directors. These procedures are set forth under the caption “Procedures for Submission and Consideration of Director Candidates” in the 2004 Proxy Statement and are incorporated herein by reference.

The Company has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. The Code of Ethics is posted on the Company’s investor relations internet website at

www.phstock.com

under the Corporate Governance page. Any amendments to, or a waiver
from, a provision of the Company’s Code of Ethics that applies to its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Controller will also be posted at

www.phstock.com

under the Corporate Governance page.

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

. The information set
forth under the captions “Compensation of Directors” and “Executive Compensation” in the 2004 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12

.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters

. The information set forth under the captions “‘Change in Control’ Severance Agreements with Officers” and “Principal Shareholders of the Corporation” in the 2004 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein
by reference. The information set forth under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the 2004 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13

.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

. The information set forth under the caption
“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in the 2004 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

. The information set forth under the captions “Audit Fees,”
“Audit-Related Fees,” “Tax Fees,” “All Other Fees” and “Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures” in the 2004 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 15

.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.

a.

The following are filed as part of this report:

-19-

1.

Financial Statements and Schedule

The financial statements and schedule listed in the accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules are filed or incorporated by
reference as part of this Report.

2.

Exhibits

The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index and required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K)
are filed, furnished or incorporated by reference as part of this Report.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

September 3, 2004

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

Signature and Title

DUANE E. COLLINS, Chairman of the Board of Directors; DONALD E. WASHKEWICZ,

Chief Executive Officer and Director; DANA A. DENNIS, Principal Accounting Officer;

JOHN G. BREEN, Director; WILLIAM E. KASSLING, Director; ROBERT
J. KOHLHEPP,

Director; PETER W. LIKINS, Director; GIULIO MAZZALUPI, Director;

KLAUS-PETER MÜLLER, Director; CANDY M. OBOURN, Director;

HECTOR R. ORTINO, Director; ALLAN L. RAYFIELD, Director;

WOLFGANG R. SCHMITT, Director; DEBRA L. STARNES, Director; and

NICKOLAS W. VANDE STEEG, Director.

Date: September 3, 2004

-20-

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

Individual financial
statements and related applicable schedules for the Registrant (separately) have been omitted because the Registrant is primarily an operating company and its subsidiaries are considered to be wholly-owned.

F-1

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002, 2003 and 2004

(Dollars in Thousands)

(A)

Net balance of deductions due to uncollectible accounts charged off and additions due to acquisitions or recoveries.

F-2

Exhibit Index

*Management

contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

(A)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 1997 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(B)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(C)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on February 4, 1997 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(D)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1999 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(E)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(F)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(G)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(H)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1999 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(I)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2004 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(J)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2000 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(K)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2004 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(L)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2000 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(M)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2004 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(N)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2002 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(O)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 1997 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(P)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(Q)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(R)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(S)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(T)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 1999 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(U)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(V)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(W)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

(X)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998 (Commission File No. 1-4982).

Shareholders may request a copy of any of the exhibits to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K by writing to the Secretary, Parker-Hannifin Corporation, 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141.