10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
from

to

Commission File No. 1-4982

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

(Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code (216) 896-3000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange

on which Registered

Common Shares, $.50 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if the
Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes

¨

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.  Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of
this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes

¨

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
(§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K

¨

.

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).  Yes

¨

No

x

The aggregate market value of the outstanding common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of December 31, 2008, excluding, for purpose of this computation only, stock holdings of the
Registrant’s Directors and Officers: $6,775,712,802.

The number of Common Shares outstanding on July 31, 2009 was 160,517,563.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the
following documents are incorporated by reference:

(1)

Annual Report to Shareholders of the Company for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 is incorporated by reference into Parts I and II hereof.

(2)

Definitive Proxy Statement for the Company’s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on October 28, 2009 is incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

FORM 10-K

Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2009

PART I

ITEM 1

.

Business

.

Parker-Hannifin Corporation is a leading worldwide full-line diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, including fluid power systems, electromechanical controls and related components. Fluid power
involves the transfer and control of power through the medium of liquid, gas or air, in hydraulic, pneumatic and vacuum applications. Fluid power systems move and position materials, control machines, vehicles and equipment and improve industrial
efficiency and productivity. Components of a simple fluid power system include one or more pumps which generate pressure, one or more valves which control the flow of the fluid, one or more actuators which translate the pressure from the fluid into
mechanical energy, one or more filters to ensure proper fluid condition and numerous hoses, couplings, fittings and seals. Electromechanical controls involve the use of electronic components and systems to control motion and precisely locate or vary
speed in automation and aerospace applications. In addition to motion and control products, the Company also is a leading worldwide producer of fluid purification, fluid and fuel control, process instrumentation, air conditioning, refrigeration,
electromagnetic shielding and thermal management products and systems.

The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1938. Its principal
executive offices are located at 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141, telephone (216) 896-3000. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context otherwise requires, the term “Company” or
“Parker” refers to Parker-Hannifin Corporation and its subsidiaries.

The Company’s investor relations internet website
address is

www.phstock.com

. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing such material electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information
contained on or accessible through the Company’s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The Board of Directors has
adopted a written charter for each of the committees of the Board of Directors. These charters, as well as the Company’s Code of Ethics, Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues and Independence Standards for Directors, are posted and
available on the Company’s investor relations internet website at

www.phstock.com

under the Corporate Governance page. Shareholders may request copies of these corporate governance documents, free of charge, by writing to Parker-Hannifin
Corporation, 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141, Attention: Secretary, or by calling (216) 896-3000.

- 1 -

The Company’s manufacturing, service, distribution and administrative facilities are located in 40
states and in 47 foreign countries. The Company’s motion and control technologies and systems are used in the products of its three principal business segments: Industrial; Aerospace; and Climate & Industrial Controls. The products are
sold as original and replacement equipment through product and distribution centers worldwide. The Company markets its products through direct-sales employees, independent distributors, sales representatives and builder/dealers. Parker products are
supplied to approximately 452,000 customers in virtually every significant manufacturing, transportation and processing industry. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, total net sales were $10,309,015,127. Industrial Segment products
accounted for 74%, Aerospace Segment products for 18%, and Climate & Industrial Controls Segment products for 8% of those net sales.

Markets

Motion and control technologies and systems are used throughout various industries in various applications.
The approximately 452,000 customers who purchase the Company’s products are found throughout virtually every significant manufacturing, transportation and processing industry. No single customer accounted for more than 3% of the Company’s
total net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.

Industrial Segment

.

Sales of Industrial Segment products are
made primarily to original equipment manufacturers and their replacement markets in all major manufacturing and processing industries. The major markets for the products of the Industrial Segment are listed below by Group:

- 2 -

Aerospace Segment

.

Sales of Aerospace Segment products are made primarily to
original equipment manufacturers in the commercial, military and general aviation markets and to end users for maintenance, repair and overhaul. The major markets for products of the Aerospace Segment are listed below:

•     Commercial transports

•     Engines

•     General and business
aviation

•     Helicopters

•     Launch vehicles

•     Military aircrafts

•     Missiles and munitions

•     Power
generation

•     Regional transports

•     Unmanned aerial vehicles

•     Aftermarket services

Climate & Industrial Controls Segment

.

Sales of Climate &
Industrial Controls Segment products are made primarily to original equipment manufacturers and their replacement markets. The major markets for products of the Climate & Industrial Controls Segment are listed below:

•     Agriculture

•     Air
conditioning

•     Appliances

•     Food and beverage

•     Industrial and commercial refrigeration

•     Industrial machinery

•     Oil and gas

•     Life sciences and
medical

•     Precision cooling

•     Process

•     Supermarkets

•     Transportation

- 3 -

Principal Products and Methods of Distribution

Industrial Segment

.

The products produced by the Company’s Industrial Segment consist of a broad range of motion and control
technologies and systems, which are described below by Group:

Automation Group

: pneumatic and electromechanical components and
systems, including:

Filtration Group

: filters, systems and instruments to monitor and remove contaminants from
fuel, air, oil, water and other liquids and gases, including:

•     Analytical gas generators

•     Compressed air and gas
filters and dryers

•     Condition monitoring devices

•     Engine air, fuel and oil filtration and systems

•     Hydraulic, lubrication and coolant filters

•     Nitrogen, hydrogen and zero air generators

•     Process, chemical, water
and microfiltration filters

•     Water desalinization and purification

Fluid Connectors Group

: connectors which control, transmit and contain fluid, including:

•     Connectors for low pressure fluid conveyance

•     Deep sea
umbilicals

•     Diagnostic equipment

•     Hose couplings

•     Industrial hose

•     Mooring systems and
power cables

•     PTFE hose and tubing

•     Quick
couplings

•     Check valves

•     Rubber and thermoplastic hose

•     Tube fittings and adapters

•     Tubing and plastic
fittings

- 4 -

Hydraulics Group

: hydraulic components and systems for builders and users of industrial and mobile
machinery and equipment, including:

•     Accumulators

•     Catridge
valves

•     Human machine interfaces

•     Hybrid drives

•     Hydraulic cylinders

•     Hydraulic motors and
pumps

•     Hydraulic systems

•     Hydraulic valves and controls

•     Hydrostatic steering
units

•     Integrated hydraulic circuits

•     Power take-off equipment

•     Power units

•     Rotary actuators

•     Sensors

Instrumentation Group

: high quality critical flow components for process instrumentation,
healthcare and ultra-high-purity applications, including:

•     Analytical sample conditioning products and systems

•     Chemical injection
fittings and valves

•     Fluoropolymer chemical delivery fittings, valves and pumps

•     High-purity gas delivery fittings, valves, regulators and digital flow
controllers

•     Process control fittings, valves, regulators and manifold
valves

•     Process control double block and bleeds

•     Permanent no-weld tube fittings

•     Precision industrial
regulators and flow controllers

•     Industrial mass flow meters/controllers

Seal Group

: static and dynamic sealing devices, including:

•     Dynamic seals

•     Elastomeric
o-rings

•     Electromagnetic interference shielding

•     Extruded and precision-cut fabricated elastomeric seals

•     High-temperature metal
seals

•     Homogeneous and inserted elastomeric shapes

•     Medical
devices

•     Medical seals and instruments

•     Metal and plastic retained composite seals

•     Thermal management products

Industrial Segment products include standard products, as well as custom products which are
engineered and produced to original equipment manufacturers’ specifications for application to a particular end product. Both standard and custom products are also used in the replacement of original motion and control products. Industrial
Segment products are marketed primarily through field sales employees and approximately 10,000 independent distributor locations.

Aerospace Segment

.

The principal products of the Company’s Aerospace Segment include cooling, hydraulic, fuel, and pneumatic systems and components used on commercial and military airframe and engine programs. The
Aerospace Segment also manufactures a broad range of fluid conveyance systems and components, fluid metering, delivery and atomization devices, inert gas

- 5 -

generating systems, as well as connectors, hoses, fittings, tube fittings and quick disconnects which control, transmit and contain fluid for aircraft
applications.

The Aerospace Segment offers complete hydraulic and primary flight control systems and components, including:

•

hydraulic, electrohydraulic and electromechanical components used for precise control of aircraft rudders, elevators, ailerons and other aerodynamic control
surfaces; and

•

utility hydraulic components such as:

¡

Reservoirs

¡

Accumulators

¡

Selector valves

¡

Electrohydraulic servo valves

¡

Thrust-reverser actuators

¡

Engine-driven pumps

¡

Motor pumps

¡

Nose wheel
steering systems

¡

Electromechanical actuators

¡

Engine controls

¡

Electronic controllers

The Aerospace Segment also designs and manufactures aircraft wheels and brakes for general
aviation and military markets.

The Aerospace Segment’s fuel product line offers complete fuel systems and components, including:

•     Fuel tank inerting systems

•     Fuel transfer and
pressurization controls

•     In-flight refueling systems

•     Fuel pumps and valves

•     Fuel measurement and management systems

•     Center of gravity controls

•     Engine fuel injection
atomization nozzles, manifolds and augmentor controls

•     Electronic monitoring computers

The Aerospace Segment also produces various engine systems and components, including:

•     Bleed air control systems

•     Pressure
regulators

•     Low-pressure pneumatic controls

•     Engine starter systems

•     Engine bleed control and anti-ice systems

•     Electronic control and
monitoring computers

Aerospace Segment products are marketed by the Company’s regional sales organization and are
sold directly to manufacturers and end users.

Climate & Industrial Controls Segment

.

The principal products of the
Company’s Climate & Industrial Controls Segment consist of systems and components for use primarily in the mobile and stationary refrigeration and air conditioning industry, and systems and components for use in fluid

- 6 -

control applications in a wide variety of industries including processing, fuel dispensing, beverage dispensing and mobile emissions. These products include:

•     Accumulators

•     CO


controls

•     Electronic controllers

•     Filter driers

•     Hand shut-off valves

•     Heat
exchangers

•     Hose and fittings

•     Pressure regulating
valves

•     Refrigerant distributors

•     Safety relief valves

•     Solenoid valves

•     Thermostatic expansion
valves

Climate & Industrial Controls Segment products are marketed primarily through field sales
employees and independent distributors and wholesalers.

No single product contributed more than 1% to the Company’s total net sales
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.

Competition

The Company’s business is highly competitive. No single manufacturer competes with the Company with respect to all products manufactured and sold by the Company and the degree of competition varies among
different products. In the Industrial Segment, the Company competes on the basis of product quality and innovation, customer service, manufacturing and distribution capability, and price competitiveness. The Company believes that it is one of the
primary suppliers of motion control systems and components in most of the major markets for its Industrial Segment products.

In the
Aerospace Segment, the Company has developed alliances with key customers based on the Company’s advanced technological and engineering capabilities, superior performance in quality, delivery, and service, and price competitiveness, which has
enabled the Company to obtain significant original equipment business on new aircraft programs for its systems and components and to thereby obtain the follow-on repair and replacement business for these programs. The Company believes that it is one
of the primary suppliers in the aerospace market.

In the Climate & Industrial Controls Segment, the Company competes on the basis
of product quality and innovation, customer service, manufacturing and distribution capability, and price competitiveness. The Company believes that it is one of the primary suppliers in the climate and industrial controls market.

Research and Product Development

The Company
continually researches the feasibility of new products and services through its development laboratories and testing facilities in many of its worldwide manufacturing locations. Its research and product development staff includes chemists,
physicists, and mechanical, chemical and electrical engineers.

- 7 -

Total research and development costs relating to the development of new products and services and the
improvement of existing products and services amounted to $338,907,820 in fiscal year 2009, $303,097,752 in fiscal year 2008, and $253,091,228 in fiscal year 2007. These amounts include costs incurred by the Company related to independent research
and development initiatives as well as costs incurred in connection with research and development contracts. Costs incurred in connection with research and development contracts and included in the total research and development costs reported above
for each of the respective fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $50,739,381, $47,757,134 and $40,893,768.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses

The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to its products and has exclusive and non-exclusive rights to use a
number of patents owned by others. In addition, patent applications on certain products are now pending, although there can be no assurance that patents will be issued. The Company is not dependent to any material extent on any single patent or
group of patents.

Backlog and Seasonal Nature of Business

The Company’s backlog by business segment for the past two fiscal years, as set forth on pages 13-4 to 13-6 of Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated into this section by reference. The
Company’s backlog at June 30, 2009 was $2,885,284,015 and at June 30, 2008 was $3,651,285,185. Approximately 80% of the Company’s backlog at June 30, 2009 is scheduled for delivery in the succeeding twelve months. The
Company’s business generally is not seasonal in nature.

Environmental Regulation

The Company is subject to United States federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect the environment and to regulate the
discharge of materials into the environment. Among other environmental laws, the Company is subject to the United States federal “Superfund” law, under which the Company has been designated as a “potentially responsible party”
and may be liable for cleanup costs associated with various waste sites, some of which are on the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund priority list.

As of June 30, 2009, the Company is involved in environmental remediation at various manufacturing facilities presently or formerly operated by the
Company and has been named as a “potentially responsible party,” along with other companies, at off-site waste disposal facilities and regional sites.

The Company believes that its policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and the consequent financial liability to the Company. Compliance with
environmental laws and regulations requires continuing management of efforts and expenditures by the Company. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations has not had in the past, and, the Company believes, will not have in the future, a
material adverse effect on the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the Company.

- 8 -

As of June 30, 2009, the Company has a reserve of $13,891,137 for environmental matters which are
probable and reasonably estimable. This reserve is recorded based upon the best estimate of costs to be incurred in light of the progress made in determining the magnitude of remediation costs, the timing and extent of remedial actions required by
governmental authorities and the amount of the Company’s liability in proportion to other responsible parties.

The Company’s
estimated total liability for the above mentioned sites ranges from a minimum of $13,891,137 to a maximum of $74,197,967. The largest range for any one site is approximately $8,621,973. The actual costs to be incurred by the Company will be
dependent on final determination of contamination, final determination of remedial action required, negotiations with federal and state agencies with respect to cleanup levels, changes in regulatory requirements, innovations in investigatory and
remedial technologies, effectiveness of remedial technologies employed, the ability of the other responsible parties to pay, and any insurance or third-party recoveries.

Energy Matters and Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

The Company’s primary
energy source for each of its business segments is electric power. While the Company cannot predict future costs of such electric power, the primary source for production of the required electric power will be coal from substantial, proven coal
reserves available to electric utilities. The Company is subject to governmental regulations in regard to energy supplies in the United States and elsewhere. To date, the Company has not experienced any significant disruptions of its operations due
to energy curtailments.

Steel, brass, aluminum, elastomeric and thermoplastic materials and chemicals are the principal raw materials used
by the Company. These materials are available from numerous sources in quantities sufficient to meet the requirements of the Company.

Employees

The Company employed 51,639 persons as of June 30, 2009, of whom approximately 27,917 were employed by foreign subsidiaries.

Business Segment Information

The Company’s net sales, segment operating income and assets by business segment and net sales and long-lived assets by geographic area for the past three fiscal years, as set forth on pages 13-14 to 13-15 of Exhibit 13 to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, are incorporated into this section by reference.

Acquisitions

During fiscal year 2009, the Company completed a number of acquisitions. The description of these transactions, as set forth on page 13-21 of Exhibit 13
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated into this section by reference.

- 9 -

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

.

The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risk factors, including, but not limited
to those set forth below, any one of which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. These risk factors should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. The risk factors described below are those that the Company believes are currently the most significant. Additional risk factors not currently known to the Company or that the Company believes are immaterial also may impair the
Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The Company is subject to adverse changes in worldwide economic
conditions and volatility in and tightening of the capital and credit markets.

The extended deterioration in worldwide economic
conditions and the resulting volatility in and tightening of the capital and credit markets has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the Company and its distributors,
customers and suppliers, and on the general economic activity in many of the industries and markets in which the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers operate. These effects have, among other things, negatively impacted the level of
capital expenditures and creditworthiness of the Company’s distributors, customers and suppliers, and, therefore, the Company’s revenues, operating profits and margins and order rates.

The Company remains focused on maintaining its financial strength by adjusting its cost structure to reflect changing demand levels, maintaining a strong
balance sheet and managing its cash through various initiatives, including workforce reductions, salary freezes and short work weeks. There can be no assurance, however, that that these or any other initiatives or contingency plans implemented by
the Company to further control costs will be successful.

The Company cannot predict the duration or severity of the deterioration in
worldwide economic conditions and the resulting volatility in and tightening of the capital and credit markets or if or when conditions will improve. These conditions are highly unpredictable and beyond the Company’s control. If these
conditions continue for a significant period of time or further deteriorate, however, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

The Company is subject to risks relating to its foreign operations.

In fiscal 2009, approximately 44% of the Company’s net sales were derived from customers outside the United States. In addition, many of the Company’s manufacturing operations and suppliers are located
outside the United States. The Company expects net sales from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of its total net sales. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to risk in addition to those risks of its domestic
operations, including:

•

fluctuations in currency exchange rates;

•

limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings;

•

transportation delays and interruptions;

- 10 -

•

political, social and economic instability and disruptions;

•

government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions;

•

the imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers;

•

import and export controls;

•

labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments;

•

the potential for nationalization of enterprises;

•

difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;

•

limitations on its ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; and

•

potentially adverse tax consequences.

If the Company is unable to successfully manage the risks associated with expanding its global business or adequately manage operational fluctuations internationally, the risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
business, results of operations or financial condition.

Demand for and supply of the Company’s products may be adversely affected by numerous
factors, some of which the Company cannot predict or control, which would adversely affects its results of operations.

Numerous factors
may affect the demand for and supply of the Company’s products, including:

•

changes in the market acceptance of its products;

•

increased competition in the markets it serves;

•

declines in the general level of industrial production; or

•

declines in the availability or increases in the prices of raw materials.

If any of these factors occur, the demand for and supply of the Company’s products could suffer, which would adversely affect its results of
operations.

The Company operates in a highly competitive environment.

The Company’s domestic and foreign operations are subject to significant competitive pressures. To compete successfully, the Company’s Industrial Segment and Climate & Industrial Controls Segment
must excel in terms of product quality and innovation, customer service, manufacturing and distribution capability and price competitiveness and its Aerospace Segment must excel on the basis of technological and engineering capability, quality,
delivery and service, and price competitiveness. The financial resources of certain of the Company’s competitors may put the Company at a competitive disadvantage.

The raw materials used in the Company’s production processes and by its suppliers of component parts are subject to price and supply fluctuations that could increase its costs of products and adversely affect
its results of operations.

The Company’s supply of raw materials for its businesses could be interrupted for a variety of reasons,
including availability and pricing. Prices for raw materials necessary for production have fluctuated significantly in the past and significant increases could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and profit margins. Although
the Company generally attempts to pass along increased raw

- 11 -

material prices to its customers in the form of price increases, there may be a time delay between the increased raw material prices and the Company’s
ability to increase the price of its products, or the Company may be unable to increase the prices of its products due to pricing pressure or other factors.

The Company’s suppliers of component parts may significantly and quickly increase their prices in response to increases in costs of raw materials that they use to manufacture the component parts. As a result, the
Company may not be able to increase its prices commensurately with its increased costs. Consequently, the Company’s results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.

The Company may face limitations on its ability to complete acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses.

The Company expects to continue its strategy of identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products and services that it believes will
enhance its operations and profitability. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to find suitable businesses to purchase or that it will be able to acquire such businesses on acceptable terms.

In addition, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to integrate successfully any business that it purchases into its existing business or
that any acquired businesses will be profitable. The successful integration of new businesses depends on the Company’s ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. If the Company is unable to complete the integration of new
businesses in a timely and effective manner, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Potential product liability
risks exist from the products that the Company sells.

The Company’s businesses expose it to potential product liability risks that
are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of its products and the products of third-party vendors that it uses or resells. Although the Company currently maintains what it believes to be suitable and adequate product liability insurance,
there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its insurance on acceptable terms or that its insurance will provide adequate protection against all potential liabilities. In the event of a claim against it, a lack of sufficient
insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, even if the Company maintains adequate insurance, a successful claim could still have a material
adverse effect on its financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.

The Company’s future growth is partly dependent on the development
of new products and technologies.

The markets the Company operates in are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and frequent
introductions of new products and services. The Company’s ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect its competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays
in research, development or production of new products and services or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may significantly reduce future revenues and adversely affect the Company’s competitive position.

- 12 -

The Company’s future growth is partly dependent on the preservation of its intellectual property.

Protecting the Company’s intellectual property is critical to its innovation efforts. The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and
licenses related to its products and has exclusive and non-exclusive rights under patents owned by others. The Company’s intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or the Company may be unable to maintain, renew
or enter into new license agreements with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. In addition, the global nature of the Company’s business could present increased risks that the Company’s intellectual property will
be subject to infringement or other unauthorized use outside of the United States. In such case, the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property rights by legal recourse or otherwise may be limited, particularly in countries where
laws or enforcement practices are undeveloped or do not recognize or protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property rights or inability to preserve existing
intellectual property rights could adversely impact the Company’s competitive position and results of operations.

The Company may be adversely
affected by the impact of environmental and safety regulations to which it is subject.

The Company’s operations necessitate the
use and handling of hazardous materials and, as a result, it is subject to various United States federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as foreign laws, designed to protect the environment and to regulate the discharge of materials
into the environment. These laws impose penalties, fines and other sanctions for non-compliance and liability for response costs, property damages and personal injury resulting from past and current spills, disposals or other releases of, or the
exposure to, hazardous materials. Among other laws, the Company is subject to the United States federal “Superfund” law, under which it has been designated as a “potentially responsible party” and may be liable for clean-up costs
associated with various waste sites, some of which are on the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund priority list. The Company could incur substantial costs as a result of non-compliance with or liability for cleanup or
other costs or damages under environmental laws, including the Superfund law.

The Company may be subject to more stringent environmental
laws in the future. If more stringent environmental laws are enacted in the future, these laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.

The Company may be adversely affected by litigation or other regulatory proceedings.

The Company is a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory proceedings relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, the Company cannot accurately
predict the ultimate outcome of any such litigation or proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

- 13 -

The Company does business with the United States government and as such is subject to government regulations.

In addition to normal business risks, doing business with the United States government subjects the Company to unusual risks, including
dependence on the level of government spending and compliance with and changes in governmental procurement regulations. Agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification,
either at the convenience of the government or for the Company’s failure to perform under the applicable contract. The Company is subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations.
If the Company were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
operations.

Changes in the Company’s tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect profitability.

The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to
the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The Company’s effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of
deferred tax assets or tax laws. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to ongoing audits by United States federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-United States authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from
amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to the Company’s tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.

Increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.

The amount of expenses recorded for the Company’s defined benefit pension plans is dependent on changes in market interest rates and the value of
plan assets, which are dependent on actual plan asset returns. Significant changes in market interest rates and decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may adversely impact the Company’s future results of
operations.

ITEM 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

.

None.

ITEM 1C

.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

.

The Company’s Executive Officers are as follows:

- 14 -

- 15 -

(1)

Officers of the Company are elected by the Board of Directors to serve for a term of one-year or until their respective successors are elected, except in the case of death,
resignation or removal. Messrs. Eline, Maxwell and Piraino and Ms. Huggins have served in the executive capacities indicated above opposite their respective names during each of the past five years.

Mr. Washkewicz has served as a Director of the Company since 2000. Mr. Washkewicz has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company
since October 2004, Chief Executive Officer of the Company since July 2001, and President since January 2007. He was previously the President of the Company from February 2000 to October 2004.

Mr. Kashkoush has been Executive Vice President – Sales, Marketing and Operations Support since October 2007. He was Corporate Vice President
– Worldwide Sales and Marketing from October 2003 to October 2007.

Mr. Pistell has been Executive Vice President – Finance
and Administration since April 2005 and has been Chief Financial Officer since April 2003. He was Vice President – Finance and Administration from April 2003 to April 2005.

Mr. Banks has been an Executive Vice President since August 2008 and has been an Operating Officer since November 2006. He was a Senior Vice
President from November 2006 to August 2008, Vice President from October 2001 to November 2006, and President of the Hydraulics Group from October 2003 to November 2006.

Mr. Barker has been an Executive Vice President since August 2008 and has been an Operating Officer since November 2006 and President of the Aerospace Group since March 2003. He was a Senior Vice President from
November 2006 to August 2008 and Vice President from April 2003 to November 2006.

Mr. Williams has been an Executive Vice President
since August 2008 and has been an Operating Officer since November 2006. He was a Senior Vice President from November 2006 to August 2008, Vice President and President of the Instrumentation Group from March 2005 to November 2006, and Vice President
– Operations of the Hydraulics Group from November 2003 to February 2005. He is also a director of Chart Industries, Inc.

- 16 -

Mr. Dennis has been Senior Vice President – Finance since August 2008. He was a Vice President
from October 2001 to August 2008 and Controller from July 1999 to August 2008.

Mr. Bond has been a Vice President since July 2000 and
has been President of the Fluid Connectors Group since March 2005. He was President of the Automation Group from April 2000 to March 2005.

Mr. Chung has been a Vice President and President of the Asia Pacific Group since March 2008. He was Vice President – Operations of the Hydraulic Group in Asia from January 2005 to March 2008 and Country Managing Director for
Korea from April 2003 to January 2005.

Mr. Cullman has been a Vice President and President of the Hydraulics Group since November
2006. He was Vice President –Operations of the Hydraulics Group from July 2002 to November 2006.

Mr. Dedinsky has been Vice
President – Global Supply Chain and Procurement since January 2006. He was Vice President – Global Sourcing and Procurement from July 2004 to January 2006 and Vice President – Procurement from August 2000 to July 2004.

Mr. Droxner has been a Vice President since January 2002. He was President of the Seal Group from January 2002 to August 2009.

Mr. Greco has been a Vice President and President of the Instrumentation Group since October 2006. He was Vice President and General Manager of the
Global Parflex Division from August 2005 to October 2006 and General Manager of the Parflex Division from March 1996 to August 2005.

Mr. Healy has been a Vice President since April 2006 and has been President of the Climate & Industrial Controls Group since July 2006. He was a Climate & Industrial Controls Group Vice President and General Manager
of Mobile Climate Systems Division from September 2004 to April 2006 and General Manager of Nichols Portland Division from July 1998 to September 2004.

Mr. Hoelting has been Vice President – Tax since February 2007. He was Vice President – Taxation from January 1998 to February 2007.

Mr. Keller was elected Vice President and President of the Seal Group in August 2009. He was Vice President of Operations of the Seal Group from
July 2005 to August 2009 and General Manager of O-Ring Division from April 1999 to July 2005.

Mr. Machado has been a Vice President
since January 2006 and has been President of the Latin America Group since March 2000.

Mr. Marten has been Vice President and
Controller since August 2008. He was an Assistant Controller of the Corporation from July 2007 to August 2008, Vice President and Controller of the Aerospace Group from October 2004 to July 2007, and Vice President and Controller of the
Instrumentation Group from June 2003 to October 2004.

- 17 -

Mr. Popoff has been a Vice President and President of the Filtration Group since February 2008. He
was Vice President – Operations of the Filtration Group from April 2006 to February 2008, Vice President/General Manager of the Global Racor Division from July 2004 to April 2006, and General Manager of the Racor Division from February 1987 to
July 2004.

Mr. Saulnier has been Vice President and President of the Europe, Middle East and Africa Group since September 2008. He
was President of Sales Companies – Europe, Middle East and Africa from January 2008 to September 2008 and Vice President – Operations of Sales Companies South from July 2001 to January 2008.

Mr. Serbin has been Vice President – Human Resources since May 2005. He was Vice President – Human Resources of the Fluid Connectors Group
from October 2003 to April 2005.

Mr. Sherrard has been a Vice President since November 2003 and has been President of the Automation
Group since March 2005. He was President of the Instrumentation Group from November 2003 to February 2005.

ITEM 2

.

Properties

. The Company’s corporate headquarters is located in Cleveland, Ohio and, at June 30, 2009, the Company had 316 manufacturing plants and 307 distribution centers and sales and administrative offices throughout the
world, none of which were individually material to its operations. The facilities are situated in 40 states within the United States and in 47 other countries. The Company owns the majority of its manufacturing plants and distribution centers, and
its leased properties primarily consist of sales and administrative offices. The number of facilities used by each of the Company’s operating segments is summarized by type and geographic location in the tables below:

Several facilities are shared among each of the Company’s operating segments. To avoid double
counting, each shared facility is counted once, primarily in the Industrial Segment.

- 18 -

The Company believes that its properties have been adequately maintained, are in good condition generally
and are suitable and adequate for its business as presently conducted. The extent to which the Company uses its properties varies by property and from time to time. The Company believes that its restructuring efforts have brought capacity levels
closer to present and anticipated needs. Most of the Company’s manufacturing facilities remain capable of handling additional volume increases.

ITEM 3

.

Legal Proceedings

.

Parker ITR S.r.l. (Parker ITR), a subsidiary acquired on January 31, 2002, has been the subject of a number of lawsuits and regulatory investigations since
April 27, 2007, when a grand jury in the Southern District of Florida issued a subpoena to Parker ITR and the Company requiring the production of documents, in particular documents related to communications with competitors and customers
related to Parker ITR’s business unit that manufactures marine hose, typically used in oil transfer. The lawsuits and investigations relate to allegations that for a period of up to 21 years, the Parker ITR business unit that manufactures and
sells marine hose conspired with competitors in unreasonable restraint of trade to artificially raise, fix, maintain or stabilize prices, rig bids and allocate markets and customers for marine oil and gas hose in the United States and in other
jurisdictions.

On May 15, 2007, the European Commission issued its initial Request for Information to the Company and Parker ITR. On
August 2, 2007, the Japan Fair Trade Commission (JFTC) requested that Parker ITR submit a report to the JFTC on specific topics related to its investigation of marine hose suppliers. Brazilian competition authorities and Korean competition
authorities commenced their investigations on November 14, 2007 and January 17, 2008, respectively. The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (“ACCC”) filed a statement of claim in the Federal Court of Australia on
May 29, 2009 and named Parker ITR as a respondent. Parker ITR and the Company have cooperated with all of the regulatory authorities investigating the activities of the Parker ITR business unit that manufactures and sells marine hose and
continue to cooperate with the investigations that remain ongoing.

In addition, during this time period, four class action lawsuits were
filed in the Southern District of Florida:

Shipyard Supply LLC v. Bridgestone Corporation, et al.

, filed May 17, 2007;

Expro Gulf Limited v. Bridgestone Corporation, et al.

, filed June 6, 2007;

Bayside Rubber &
Products, Inc. v. Trelleborg Industrie S.A., et al.

, filed June 25, 2007;

Bayside Rubber & Products, Inc. v. Caleca, et al

., filed July 12, 2007; and one in the Southern District of New York:

Weeks Marine, Inc. v.
Bridgestone Corporation, et al.

, filed July 27, 2007. On September 12, 2008, the plaintiffs filed an amended consolidated class action complaint. Plaintiffs have since filed another amended consolidated complaint naming prior owners of
the Parker ITR business unit that manufactures and sells marine hose. Plaintiffs generally seek treble damages, a permanent injunction, attorneys’ fees, and pre-judgment and post-judgment interest.

The time period for the alleged illegal activities by Parker ITR’s marine hose business unit varies by jurisdiction. In the United States, the
Department of Justice, which initiated the April 2007 grand jury subpoenas, alleges that the challenged activities commenced in the United States in 1999 and ended May 2, 2007. The Department of Justice’s investigation is ongoing and the
Company and Parker ITR continue to cooperate.

- 19 -

In Brazil, Parker ITR filed a procedural defense in January 2008. The Brazilian competition authorities
have not yet responded to Parker ITR’s filing. The Brazilian competition authorities’ investigation is ongoing and the Company and Parker ITR continue to cooperate. The Brazilian authorities appear to be investigating the period from 1999
through May 2007. Because the Brazilian competition authorities have not yet responded to Parker ITR’s initial filing, the potential outcome of this investigation is uncertain and will depend on the resolution of numerous issues not yet
addressed at the current preliminary stage of the investigation.

In Korea, the Korean Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) submitted several
questionnaires to Parker ITR in connection with their investigation of Parker ITR’s marine hose bidding activities in Korea from 1999 to May 2, 2007. Parker ITR responded to each questionnaire and continues to cooperate with the KFTC. The
KFTC issued its final report on July 2, 2009, which imposed a fine of KRW 42 million (which, as of July 31, 2009, was approximately $34 thousand) on Parker ITR. Parker ITR must pay the fine on or before September 8, 2009.

The JFTC completed its investigation and issued an administrative order requiring Parker ITR to take certain actions, including passing a
board resolution that prohibited the challenged conduct in the future and to send letters to Parker ITR’s customers and competitors in Japan stating that Parker ITR would not engage in the challenged conduct in Japan in the future. Parker ITR
has complied with the JFTC administrative order.

On January 28, 2009, the European Commission announced the results of its
investigation of the alleged cartel activities. As part of its decision, the European Commission found that Parker ITR infringed Article 81 of the European Commission treaty from April 1986 to May 2, 2007 and fined Parker ITR 25.61 million
euros. The European Commission also determined that the Company was jointly and severally responsible for 8.32 million euros of the total fine which related to the period from January 2002, when the Company acquired Parker ITR, to May 2,
2007, when the cartel activities ceased. Parker ITR and the Company filed an appeal to the Court of First Instance of the European Communities on April 10, 2009.

Counsel for Parker ITR accepted service related to the ACCC’s statement of claim. A hearing was held in the matter on July 7, 2009. The matter was continued until certain other respondents are served. The
ACCC appears to be investigating conduct for the period beginning as early as 1994 through 2007.

The Company and Parker ITR have reached a
settlement of the class action litigation in the United States, which is subject to court approval. On February 17, 2009, Parker ITR entered into a separate agreement to settle possible private causes of action outside the United States.

ITEM 4

.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

.

None.

- 20 -

PART II

ITEM 5

.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

.

(a)

Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity

.

The Company’s common stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Information regarding
stock price and dividend information with respect to the Company’s common stock, as set forth on page 13-40 of Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated into this section by reference. As of July 31, 2009, the number
of shareholders of record of the Company was 4,513.

(b)

Use of Proceeds

.

Not Applicable.

(c)

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

.

(1)

On August 16, 1990, the Company publicly announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase by the Company of up to 3.0 million shares of its common stock.
From time to time, the Board of Directors has adjusted the number of shares authorized for repurchase under this program. On January 28, 2009, the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase in the number of
shares authorized for repurchase under this program so that, beginning on such date, the aggregate number of shares authorized for repurchase was equal to 10 million. Subject to this overall limitation, each fiscal year the Company is authorized to
repurchase an amount of common shares equal to the greater of 7.5 million shares or five percent of the shares outstanding as of the end of the prior fiscal year. There is no expiration date for this program.

ITEM 6

.

Selected Financial Data

.

The information set forth on page 13-45 of Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K is
incorporated into this section by reference.

- 21 -

ITEM 7

.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

.

The information set forth on pages 13-2 to 13-12 of Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated into this section by reference.

ITEM 7A

.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

.

The Company enters into forward exchange contracts and costless collar contracts, comprised of puts and calls, to
reduce its exposure in both freely convertible and non-freely convertible foreign currencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company’s foreign locations enter into various financial guarantees through financial
institutions which enable customers to be reimbursed in the event of non-performance by the Company. The total carrying amount and fair value amount of open contracts and any risk to the Company as a result of these arrangements is not material to
the Company’s financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

The Company’s debt portfolio contains variable rate debt,
inherently exposing the Company to interest rate risk. The Company’s objective is to maintain a 60/40 mix between fixed rate and variable rate debt, thereby limiting its exposure to changes in near-term interest rates. A 100 basis point
increase in near-term interest rates would increase annual interest expense on variable rate debt by approximately $8,033,803.

For further
discussion, see the discussion of Significant Accounting Policies Footnote on page 13-20 of Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated into this section by reference.

ITEM 8

.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

.

The information set forth on pages 13-13 to 13-40 of Exhibit 13 to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated into this section by reference.

ITEM 9

.

Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

.

None.

ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures

.

The Company
carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of fiscal year 2009. Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that, as of the end of fiscal year 2009, the Company’s disclosure
controls and procedures were effective.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting set forth on page 13-41 of
Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated into this section by reference. The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm set forth on pages 13-42 and 13-43 of Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K is
incorporated into this section by reference.

There has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
during the quarter ended June 30, 2009 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

- 22 -

ITEM 9B. Other Information

.

None.

PART III

ITEM 10

.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

.

Information required with respect to the Directors of the Company is set forth under the caption “Election of Directors” in the definitive Proxy Statement for the
Company’s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held October 28, 2009 (the “2009 Proxy Statement”) and is incorporated herein by reference. Information with respect to the executive officers of the Company is included in Part
I, Item 1C hereof under the caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant”.

The information set forth under the caption
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the 2009 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

The
Company has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. The Code of Ethics is posted on the Company’s investor relations internet website at

www.phstock.com

under the
Corporate Governance page. Any amendments to, or a waiver from, a provision of the Company’s Code of Ethics that applies to its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Controller will also be posted at

www.phstock.com

under
the Corporate Governance page.

The information set forth under the captions “Audit Committee Financial Experts” and “Report
of the Audit Committee” in the 2009 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.

Executive
Compensation

.

The information set forth under the captions “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Compensation Committee Report,” and “Compensation Tables” in the 2009 Proxy Statement is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12

.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters

.

The information set forth under the caption “Principal Shareholders” in the 2009 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. The information set forth under the caption “Equity Compensation
Plan Information” in the 2009 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13

.

Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

.

The information set forth under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions”, “Review and Approval of Transactions with Related Persons”, and
“Director Independence” in the 2009 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.

Principal
Accountant Fees and Services

.

The information set forth under the captions “Audit Fees,” “Audit-Related Fees,” “Tax Fees,” “All Other Fees” and “Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies and
Procedures” in the 2009 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

- 23 -

PART IV

ITEM 15

.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

.

a.

The following are filed as part of this report:

1.

Financial Statements and Schedule

The financial statements and schedule listed in the accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

2.

Exhibits

The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index and required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K) are filed,
furnished or incorporated by reference as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

- 24 -

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

August 27, 2009

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

Signature and Title

DONALD E. WASHKEWICZ,
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer; JON P. MARTEN, Principal Accounting Officer; LINDA S. HARTY, Director; WILLIAM E. KASSLING, Director; ROBERT J. KOHLHEPP, Director; GIULIO MAZZALUPI, Director; KLAUS-PETER MÜLLER,
Director; CANDY M. OBOURN, Director; JOSEPH M. SCAMINACE, Director; WOLFGANG R. SCHMITT, Director; MARKOS I. TAMBAKERAS, Director; and JAMES L. WAINSCOTT, Director.

Date: August 27, 2009

/s/ Timothy K. Pistell

Timothy K. Pistell, Executive Vice President – Finance and Administration, Principal Financial Officer and Attorney-in-Fact

- 25 -

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

Individual financial statements and related applicable schedules for the Registrant (separately)
have been omitted because the Registrant is primarily an operating company and its subsidiaries are considered to be wholly-owned.

F-1

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 2007, 2008 and 2009

(Dollars in Thousands)

(A)

For allowance for doubtful accounts, net balance of deductions due to uncollectible accounts charged off and additions due to acquisitions or recoveries. For defered tax asset
valuation allowance, primarily represents adjustments due to acquisitions.

F-2

Exhibit Index

*

Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

Shareholders
may request a copy of any of the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K by writing to the Secretary, Parker-Hannifin Corporation, 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141.