10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K FOR YEAR ENDED 6/30/2001

Form 10-K for year ended 6/30/2001

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission File No. 1-4982

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

. No

o

.

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

FORM 10-K

Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2001

PART I

ITEM 1

.

Business

. Parker-Hannifin Corporation is a leading
worldwide full-line manufacturer of motion control products, including fluid power systems, electromechanical controls and related components. Fluid power involves the transfer and control of power through the medium of liquid, gas or air, in
hydraulic, pneumatic and vacuum applications. Fluid power systems move and position materials, control machines, vehicles and equipment and improve industrial efficiency and productivity. Components of a simple fluid power system include a pump or
compressor which generates pressure, valves which control the fluid's flow, an actuator which translates the pressure in the fluid into mechanical energy, a filter to insure proper fluid condition and numerous hoses, couplings, fittings and seals.
Electromechanical control involves the use of electronic components and systems to control motion and precisely locate or vary speed in automation applications. In addition to motion control products, the Company also is a leading worldwide producer
of fluid purification, fluid flow, process instrumentation, air conditioning, refrigeration, and electromagnetic shielding and thermal management products and designs and manufactures custom-engineered buildings. Also, through Wynn Oil Company and
its subsidiaries (the "Wynn's Specialty Chemical Group"), the Company develops, manufactures and markets specialty chemical products and automotive service equipment and markets vehicle service contract and product warranty programs. In
August 2001, the Company decided to suspend its efforts to sell the Wynn's Specialty Chemical Group which had previously been designated as assets held for sale since their acquisition in July 2000.

The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1938. Its principal executive offices are located at 6035
Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141, telephone (216) 896-3000. As used in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" or "Parker" refers to Parker-Hannifin Corporation and its
subsidiaries.

The Company's manufacturing, service, distribution and administrative facilities are located in 38
states, Puerto Rico and worldwide in 44 foreign countries. Its motion control technology is used in the products of its two principal business Segments: Industrial and Aerospace and in its third business Segment: Other. The products are sold as
original and replacement equipment through product and distribution centers worldwide. The Company markets its products through its direct-sales employees, independent distributors, sales representatives and builder/dealers. Parker products are
supplied to approximately 425,000 customers in virtually every significant manufacturing, transportation and processing industry. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001, net sales were $5,979,604,000; Industrial Segment products accounted for
71%

of net sales, Aerospace Segment products for 20% and Other Segment products for 9%.

-1-

Markets

Motion control systems are used throughout industry in applications which include moving of
materials, controlling machines, vehicles and equipment and positioning materials during the manufacturing process. Motion control systems contribute to the efficient use of energy and improve industrial productivity.

The approximately 425,000 customers who purchase the Company's products are found throughout
virtually every significant manufacturing, transportation and processing industry. No customer accounted for more than 5% of the Company's total net sales for the fiscal year.

The major markets for products of the Fluid Connectors, Hydraulics, Automation and Seal Groups of
the Industrial Segment are agricultural machinery, automotive, construction machinery, electronic equipment, fabricated metals, food production, industrial machinery, pulp and paper, machine tools, marine, medical equipment, mining, mobile
equipment, chemicals, robotics, semi-conductor equipment, telecommunications, textiles, transportation and every other major production and processing industry. The major markets for products manufactured by the Instrumentation Group of the
Industrial Segment are power generation, oil and gas exploration, petrochemical and chemical processing, pulp and paper, semi-conductor manufacturing, medical and analytical applications. The major markets for products of the Filtration Group of the
Industrial Segment are industrial machinery, mobile equipment, process equipment, marine, aviation, environmental and semi-conductor manufacturing. Sales of Industrial Segment products are made to original equipment manufacturers and their
replacement markets.

Aerospace Segment sales are made primarily to the commercial, military and general aviation
markets and are made to original equipment manufacturers and to end users for maintenance, repair and overhaul.

The products manufactured by the Climate and Industrial Controls Group of the Other Segment are
used principally in mobile air conditioning systems, industrial refrigeration systems, home and commercial air conditioning equipment and industrial process markets. Sales of the Climate and Industrial Controls Group are made to original equipment
manufacturers and their replacement markets. Astron Building Systems® ("Astron") of the Other Segment produces pre-engineered single and multi-story buildings that serve industries throughout Europe and Asia. The Wynn's Specialty
Chemical Group, which became part of the Other Segment in August 2001, develops and manufactures a wide variety of specialty chemical car care and industrial products and related service programs that are marketed to automobile service technicians
and consumers. The Wynn's Specialty Chemical Group also administers vehicle service contract programs that are sold through automobile dealerships and financial institutions to purchasers of automobiles.

-2-

Principal Products, Methods of Distribution and Competitive Conditions

Industrial Segment

.   The product lines of the Company's Industrial
Segment cover most of the components of motion control systems. The Fluid Connectors Group manufactures connectors, including tube fittings and hose fittings, valves, hoses and couplers, which control, transmit and contain fluid. The Hydraulics
Group produces hydraulic components and systems for builders and users of industrial and mobile machinery and equipment, such as cylinders, accumulators, rotary actuators, valves, motors and pumps, hydrostatic steering units, power units, integrated
hydraulic circuits, electrohydraulic systems and metering pumps. The Automation Group supplies pneumatic and electromechanical components and systems, including pneumatic valves; linear motors; air preparation units; indexers, stepper and servo
drives; multi-axis positioning tables; electric and pneumatic cylinders; structural extrusions; vacuum products; pneumatic logic; human/machine interface hardware and software; and gantry robots. The Seal Group manufactures sealing devices,
including o-rings and o-seals; gaskets and packings, which insure leak-proof connections; electromagnetic interference shielding; and thermal management products. The Filtration Group manufactures filters, systems and instruments to monitor and to
remove contaminants from fuel, air, oil, water and other fluids and gases, including hydraulic, lubrication and coolant filters; process, chemical and microfiltration filters; compressed air and gas purification filters; lube oil and fuel filters;
fuel conditioning filters; fuel filters/water separators; cabin air filters; nitrogen and hydrogen generators and condition monitoring devices. The Instrumentation Group manufactures high quality critical flow components for process instrumentation,
ultra-high-purity, medical and analytical applications, including instrumentation and ultra-high-purity tube fittings and gaskets; ball, plug, needle and check valves; packless ultra-high-purity valves; fluoropolymer fittings, tubing, valves and
spray guns; miniature solenoid valves; multi-solenoid manifolds; regulators; transducers; quick connects; hose products; and cylinder connections.

Industrial Segment products include both standard items which are produced in large quantities and
custom units which are engineered and produced to original equipment manufacturers' specifications for application to a particular end product. Both standard and custom products are also used in the replacement of original motion control system
components. Industrial Segment products are marketed primarily through field sales employees and more than 8,600 independent distributors.

Aerospace Segment

.   The principal products of the Company's Aerospace
Segment are hydraulic, fuel and pneumatic systems and components that are used on commercial and military airframe and engine programs.

The Aerospace Segment offers complete hydraulic systems, as well as primary flight control
components that include hydraulic, electrohydraulic and electromechanical systems used for precise control of aircraft rudders, elevators, ailerons and other aerodynamic control surfaces and utility hydraulic components such as reservoirs,
accumulators, selector valves, electrohydraulic servovalves, thrust-reverser actuators, engine-driven pumps, nosewheel steering systems, electromechanical actuators, engine controls and electronic controllers. The Aerospace Segment also designs and
manufactures aircraft wheels and brakes for the general aviation and military markets.

-3-

The Aerospace fuel product line includes complete fuel systems as well as components such as fuel
transfer and pressurization controls, in-flight refueling systems, fuel pumps and valves, fuel measurement and management systems and center of gravity controls, engine fuel injection atomization nozzles and augmentor controls, and electronic
monitoring computers.

Pneumatic components include bleed air control systems, pressure regulators, low-pressure
pneumatic controls, heat transfer systems, engine start systems, engine bleed control and anti-ice systems, and electronic control and monitoring computers.

Aerospace Segment products are marketed by the Company's regional sales organization and are sold
directly to manufacturers and end users.

Other Segment

.   The principal products of the Company's Other Segment are
motion-control and fluid power system components which are manufactured by the Climate and Industrial Controls Group for use primarily in the transportation industry, custom-engineered buildings which are designed and manufactured by Astron and
automotive and industrial chemical products, vehicle service contract programs and professional automotive service equipment that are developed and manufactured or administered by the Wynn's Specialty Chemical Group and marketed primarily to
consumers, automobile dealerships, automotive service facilities and manufacturing companies.

The Climate and Industrial Controls Group manufactures components and systems for use in
industrial, residential, automotive and mobile air conditioning and refrigeration systems and other applications, including pressure regulators, solenoid valves, expansion valves, filter-dryers, gerotors and hose assemblies. The Climate and
Industrial Controls Group products are marketed primarily through field sales employees and independent distributors.

Astron's pre-engineered single and multi-story buildings serve as aircraft hangars, indoor
athletic facilities, automobile showrooms, offices, supermarkets, factories and warehouses. Astron's custom-engineered buildings are marketed primarily through builder/dealers and field sales employees.

The Wynn's Specialty Chemical Group's product line includes professional chemical products,
programs and equipment for automobile service technicians, automotive chemical products for consumers, and forging compounds, cleaners, release agents, lubricants, cutting and drawing fluids and multipurpose coolants used in precision metal forming
and machining operations.

The Wynn's Product Warranty program marketed by the Wynn's Specialty Chemical Group consists of
kits of a premium line of automotive treatment products that are accompanied by a special product warranty for purchasers of used automobiles and light trucks.

The Wynn's Extended Care program marketed by the Wynn's Specialty Chemical Group provides various
vehicle service contracts for new and used cars. This program is backed by a contractual liability insurance policy.

-4-

Competition

.   All aspects of the Company's business are highly
competitive. No single manufacturer competes with respect to all products manufactured and sold by the Company and the degree of competition varies with different products. In the Industrial Segment, the Company competes on the basis of product
quality and innovation, customer service, its manufacturing and distribution capability, and competitive price. The Company believes that, in most of the major markets for its products, it is one of the principal suppliers of motion control systems
and components.

In the Aerospace Segment, the Company has developed alliances with key customers based on Parker's
advanced technological and engineering capabilities, superior performance in quality, delivery, and service, and price competitiveness, which has enabled Parker to obtain significant original equipment business on new aircraft programs for its
systems and components and, thereby, obtain the follow-on repair and replacement business for these programs. The Company believes that it is one of the primary suppliers in the aerospace marketplace.

In the Other Segment, the Company competes on the basis of product quality, innovation and
performance, customer service, its manufacturing and distribution capability, and competitive price. The Company believes that it is one of the principal suppliers in the climate and industrial controls marketplace.

Research and Product Development

The Company continually researches the feasibility of new products through its development
laboratories and testing facilities in many of its worldwide manufacturing locations. Its research and product development staff includes chemists, mechanical, electronic and electrical engineers and physicists.

Research and development costs relating to the development of new products or services and the
improvement of existing products or services amounted to $115,004,000 in fiscal 2001, $94,781,000 in fiscal 2000 and $86,953,000 in fiscal 1999. Reimbursements of customer-sponsored research included in the total cost for each of the respective
years were $17,143,000, $16,409,000 and $15,239,000.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses

The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to its products and has
exclusive and non-exclusive rights under patents owned by others. In addition, patent applications on certain products are now pending, although there can be no assurance that patents will be issued. The Company is not dependent to any material
extent on any single patent or group of patents.

Backlog and Seasonal Nature of Business

The Company's backlog at June 30, 2001 was approximately $1,985,902,000 and at June 30, 2000 was
approximately $1,797,233,000. Approximately 82% of the Company's backlog at June 30, 2001 is scheduled for delivery in the succeeding twelve months. The Company's business generally is not seasonal in nature.

-5

-

Environmental Regulation

The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect the
environment and to regulate the discharge of materials into the environment. Among other environmental laws, the Company is subject to the federal "Superfund" law, under which the Company has been designated as a "potentially
responsible party" and may be liable for cleanup costs associated with various waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Superfund priority list.

As of June 30, 2001, the Company is involved in environmental remediation at 22 manufacturing
facilities presently or formerly operated by the Company and has been named as a "potentially responsible party," along with other companies, at two off-site waste disposal facilities and two regional Superfund sites.

The Company believes that its policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent
unreasonable risk of environmental damage and the consequent financial liability to the Company. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations requires continuing management effort and expenditures by the Company. Compliance with environmental
laws and regulations has not had in the past, and, the Company believes, will not have in the future, material effects on the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the Company.

As of June 30, 2001, the Company has a reserve of $17,870,000 for environmental matters which are
probable and reasonably estimable. This reserve is recorded based upon the best estimate of net costs to be incurred in light of the progress made in determining the magnitude of remediation costs, the timing and extent of remedial actions required
by governmental authorities, the amount of the Company's liability in proportion to other responsible parties and any recoveries receivable.

The Company's estimated total liability for the above mentioned sites ranges from a minimum of
$17,870,000 to a maximum of $40,782,000. The actual costs to be incurred by the Company will be dependent on final delineation of contamination, final determination of remedial action required, negotiations with federal and state agencies with
respect to cleanup levels, changes in regulatory requirements, innovations in investigatory and remedial technology, effectiveness of remedial technologies employed, the ultimate ability to pay of the other responsible parties, and any insurance or
third party recoveries.

Energy Matters and Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

The Company's primary energy source for each of its business segments is electric power. While the
Company cannot predict future costs of such electric power, the primary source for production of the required electric power will be coal from substantial, proven coal reserves available to electric utilities. The Company is subject to governmental
regulations in regard to energy supplies both in the United States and elsewhere. To date the Company has not experienced any significant disruptions of its operations due to energy curtailments.

-6-

Steel, brass, aluminum, elastomeric materials and chemicals are the principal raw materials used
by the Company. These materials are available from numerous sources in quantities sufficient to meet the requirements of the Company.

Employees

The Company employed approximately 46,300 persons as of June 30, 2001, of whom approximately
17,520

were employed by foreign subsidiaries.

Business Segment Information

The net sales, segment operating income and identifiable assets by business segment and net sales
and long-lived assets by geographic area for the past three fiscal years, as set forth on page 25 of the Annual Report

to Shareholders and specifically excerpted on pages 13-17 to 13-18

of Exhibit 13 hereto, are incorporated herein by
reference. The net assets and results of operation for the Wynn's Specialty Chemical Group will be consolidated into the Company's financial statements beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2002.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

During fiscal 2001 the Company completed several acquisitions. The discussion of these
acquisitions, as set forth beginning on page 27 of the Annual Report to Shareholders and specifically excerpted on page 13-21 of Exhibit 13 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 1A. Executive Officers of the Company

The Company's Executive Officers are as follows:

-7-

Lynn M. Cortright

Vice President and President, Climate &



Industrial Controls Group

Dana A. Dennis

Controller



Daniel T. Garey

Vice President – Human Resources



Stephen L. Hayes

Vice President and President, Aerospace Group



Marwan M. Kashkoush

Vice President and President, Hydraulics Group



Thomas W. Mackie

Vice President and President,



Fluid Connectors Group

John K. Oelslager

Vice President and President, Filtration Group



Thomas A. Piraino, Jr.

Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary



Timothy K. Pistell

Treasurer



Nickolas W. Vande Steeg

Vice President and President, Seal Group



Johnny White

Vice President and Corporate Information Officer



(1)

Officers of the Company serve for a term of office from the date of election to the next organizational meeting of the Board of Directors and until their respective successors are
elected, except in the case of death, resignation or removal. Messrs. Sullivan, Garey, Hayes, Pistell, and Vande Steeg have served in the executive capacities indicated above during the past five years.

Mr. Washkewicz was elected Chief Executive Officer effective in July 2001 and President in
February 2000. He was Chief Operating Officer from February 2000 to July 2001; Vice President and President of the Hydraulics Group from October 1997 to February 2000; and Vice President-Operations of the Fluid Connectors Group from October 1994 to
October 1997.

Mr. Hiemstra was elected Executive Vice President-Finance and Administration effective in July
2001 and Chief Financial Officer in January 1988. He was Vice President-Finance and Administration from 1987 to July 2001.

Mr. Myslenski was elected Vice President, Operations effective in July 2001. He was a Vice
President from October 1997 to July 2001; President of the Fluid Connectors Group from July 1997 to July 2001; and Vice President – Operations of the Fluid Connectors Group from March 1989 to July 1997.

-8-

Mr. Beneker was elected as Vice President – Technical Director effective in February 1999. He
was Vice President of Business Development of the Aerospace Group from July 1995 to February 1999.

Mr. Bond was elected as a Vice President in July 2000 and named President of the Automation Group
effective in April 2000. He was Vice President – Operations of the Fluid Connectors Group from July 1997 to April 2000 and General Manager of the Quick Coupling Division from January 1992 to July 1997.

Mr. Cortright was elected as a Vice President in January 1999 and was named President of the
Climate & Industrial Controls Group effective in November 1998. He was President of the Latin American Group from November 1987 to October 1998.

Mr. Dennis was elected Controller effective July 1999. He was Vice President/Controller of the
Automation Group from August 1997 to July 1999 and Vice President/Controller of the Motion and Control Group from July 1994 to August 1997.

Mr. Kashkoush was elected as a Vice President in July 2000 and named President of the Hydraulics
Group in February 2000. He was President of the European Operations of the Hydraulics Group from February 1999 to February 2000; Group Vice President – Sales and Marketing of the Hydraulics Group from July 1997 to February 1999; and Operations
Manager of the Troy, Michigan Sales Division from July 1995 to July 1997.

Mr. Mackie was elected as a Vice President in July 2000 and named President of the Fluid
Connectors Group in July 2001. He was President of the Instrumentation Group from July 1997 to July 2001; and Vice President – Operations of the Fluid Connectors Group from July 1994 to July 1997.

Mr. Oelslager was elected as a Vice President in October 1997 and named President of the
Filtration Group effective in March 2000. He was President of the Automation Group from July 1997 to March 2000 and Vice President – Operations of the Motion and Control Group from July 1995 to July 1997.

Mr. Piraino was elected as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary effective in July 1998.
He was Vice President-Law from July 1990 to July 1998.

Mr. White was elected Vice President and Corporate Information Officer effective in July 2001. He
was Director of World Wide Business Systems from July 1998 to July 2001; and Director of Business Systems from July 1986 to July 1998.

ITEM 2

.

Properties

. The following table sets forth the principal
plants and other materially important properties of the Company and its subsidiaries. The leased properties are indicated with an asterisk. A "(1)" indicates that the property is occupied by the Company's Industrial Segment, a
"(2)" indicates properties occupied by the Aerospace Segment, and a "(3)" indicates that the property is occupied by the Company's Other Segment.

-9-

UNITED STATES

-10-

-11-

-12-

-13-

-14-

FOREIGN COUNTRIES

-15-

FOREIGN COUNTRIES

The Company believes that its properties have been adequately maintained, are in good
condition generally and are suitable and adequate for its business as presently conducted. The extent of utilization of the Company's properties varies among its plants and from time to time. Additional capacity has been added as the Company expands
through business combinations. The Company's material manufacturing facilities remain capable of handling additional volume increases.

ITEM 3

.

Legal Proceedings

.   None.

ITEM 4

.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

.
  Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5

.

Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

. As of August 31, 2001, the number of shareholders of record of the Company was 6,349 and the number of beneficial owners was approximately 50,730. Information regarding stock price and dividend information with respect to the
Company's common stock, as set forth on page

35 of the Annual Report to Shareholders and specifically excerpted on page 13-36 of Exhibit 13 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6

.

Selected Financial Data

. The information set forth on
pages 36 and 37

of the Annual Report to Shareholders, as specifically excerpted on page 13-39 of Exhibit 13 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7

.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

. The information set forth on pages 18, 20, 22, 24, 25, and 38 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, as specifically excerpted on pages 13-1 to 13-10 of Exhibit 13 hereto, is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 7A

.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk

. The Company enters into forward exchange contracts, costless collar contracts and cross-currency swap agreements to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in related foreign currencies. The total value of open contracts and any risk to
the Company as a result of these arrangements as well as the market risk of changes in near term interest rates is not material to the Company's financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

-16-

For further discussion see the Significant Accounting Policies Footnote on page 27 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, as specifically excerpted on page 13-21 of Exhibit 13 hereto and
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8

.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

. The
information set forth on pages 17, 19, 21, 23, 25 to 35 and 38 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, as specifically excerpted on pages 13-11 to 13-38 of Exhibit 13 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9

.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

. Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10

.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

.
Information required with respect to the Directors of the Company is contained on pages 1 to 3 of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement dated September 24, 2001 (the "Proxy Statement") under the caption "Election of
Directors." The foregoing information is incorporated herein by reference. Information with respect to the executive officers of the Company is included in Part I hereof.

The information set forth under the caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" on page 3 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11

.

Executive Compensation

. The information set forth under
the caption "Compensation of Directors" on page 3

of the Proxy Statement and under the caption "Executive Compensation" on pages 8 to 10 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12

.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

. The information set forth under the caption ""Change in Control" Severance Agreements with Officers" on page 11 of the Proxy Statement and under the caption "Principal Shareholders of the
Corporation" on page 13 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13

.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

. Not
applicable.

PART IV

-17-

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

September 27, 2001

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed
below by the following persons in the capacities and on the date indicated.

Signature and Title

DUANE E. COLLINS, Chairman of the Board of Directors;

DONALD E. WASHKEWICZ, Chief Executive Officer and Director;

DANA A. DENNIS, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer;

JOHN G. BREEN, Director; PAUL C. ELY, JR., Director;

WILLIAM E. KASSLING, Director; PETER W. LIKINS, Director;

GIULIO MAZZALUPI, Director; KLAUS-PETER MÜLLER, Director;

HECTOR R. ORTINO, Director; ALLAN L. RAYFIELD, Director;

WOLFGANG R. SCHMITT, Director; DEBRA L. STARNES, Director;

and DENNIS W. SULLIVAN, Director.

Date: September 27, 2001

/s/ M. J. Hiemstra

Michael J. Hiemstra, Executive Vice President – Finance

and Administration, Principal Financial Officer and

Attorney-in-Fact

-18-

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

Individual financial statements and related applicable schedules for the Registrant (separately) have been omitted because the
Registrant is primarily an operating company and its subsidiaries are considered to be totally-held.

F-1

Report of Independent Accountants on

Financial Statement Schedule

To the Board of Directors

of Parker Hannifin Corporation:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report dated July 27, 2001

appearing in the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders of
Parker Hannifin Corporation (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 14(a)(1) of this Form 10-K.
In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

July 27, 2001

F -2

PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1999, 2000 and 2001

(Dollars in Thousands)

(A)

Net balance of deductions due to uncollectible accounts charged off and additions due to acquisitions or recoveries.

F-3

*Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

Shareholders may request a copy of any of the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K by writing to the Secretary, Parker-Hannifin Corporation, 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44124-4141.