Item 1. Business.

General

The Gap, Inc. (the “Company,” “we,” and “our”) was
incorporated in the State of California in July 1969 and was reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in May 1988.

We are a global
specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, children, and babies under the Gap, Old Navy, Banana Republic, Piperlime, and Athleta brands. We operate stores in the United States, Canada, the United
Kingdom, France, Ireland, and Japan. We also have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Gap and Banana Republic stores in many other countries around the world. Under these agreements, third parties operate or will operate
stores that sell apparel, purchased from us, under our brand names.

We design most of our products, which are manufactured by independent sources, and
sell them under our brands:

Gap.Founded in 1969, Gap stores offer an extensive selection of classically styled, high quality, casual apparel at moderate price points. Products range from wardrobe basics such as denim, khakis, and T-shirts to fashion apparel,
accessories, and personal care products for men and women. We entered the children’s apparel market with the introduction of GapKids in 1986 and babyGap in 1989. These stores offer casual apparel and accessories in the tradition of Gap style
and quality for children ages newborn through pre-teen. We also offer maternity apparel. We launched GapBody in 1998 offering women’s underwear, sleepwear, loungewear, and sports and active apparel. We also operate Gap Outlet stores, which
carry similar categories of products at lower price points.

Old
Navy.We launched Old Navy in 1994 to address the market for value-priced family apparel. Old Navy offers broad selections of apparel, shoes, and accessories for adults, children, and
infants, as well as other items, including a maternity line, consumables, and personal care products.

Banana Republic.Acquired in 1983 with two stores, Banana Republic offers sophisticated, fashionable collections of casual and tailored
apparel, shoes, accessories, and personal care products for men and women at higher price points than Gap. We also operate Banana Republic Factory Stores, which carry similar categories of products at lower price points.

As of January 30, 2010, we operated a total of 3,095 store locations. For more information on the number of stores by brand and region, see the table in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included as Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

In 1997, we introduced Gap Online, a web-based store located at gap.com. Gap Online offers products comparable to those carried in Gap, GapKids, babyGap, and GapBody stores, as well as extended sizes not found in stores. We introduced
Banana Republic Online, a web-based store located at bananarepublic.com, in 1999, which offers products comparable to those carried in the store collections, as well as extended sizes not found in stores. In 2000, we established Old Navy
Online, a web-based store located at oldnavy.com. Old Navy Online offers apparel and accessories comparable to those carried in the store collections, as well as a plus size line not found in stores.

We have two additional brands: Piperlime, an online-only store located at piperlime.com, and Athleta, an online and catalog store located at athleta.com.

Piperlime.We launched
Piperlime in October 2006. Piperlime offers customers an assortment of the leading brands in footwear, handbags, apparel, and jewelry for women and footwear for men and kids, as well as tips, trends, and advice from leading style authorities.



4      GAPINC. FORM10-K






Athleta.Acquired in September 2008, Athleta offers customers high quality and performance-driven women’s sports and active apparel
and footwear that is stylish and functional for a variety of activities, including golf, running, skiing and snowboarding, tennis, and yoga. Customers can purchase Athleta product, as well as an assortment of products from leading brands in
women’s active wear, online or through the catalog.

Certain financial information about international operations is set forth under the heading
“Segment Information” in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Our stores
offer a shopper-friendly environment with an assortment of casual apparel and accessories that emphasize style, quality, and good value. The range of merchandise displayed in each store varies depending on the selling season and the size and
location of the store.

Our stores generally are open seven days per week (where permitted by law) and most holidays. All sales are tendered for cash,
personal checks, debit cards, or credit cards. We also issue and redeem gift cards through our brands. Gap, Banana Republic, and Old Navy each has a private label credit card program and a co-branded credit card program through which frequent
customers receive benefits. Private label and co-branded credit cards are underwritten by a third-party financing company.

Merchandise
Vendors

We purchase private label merchandise from approximately 650 vendors and non-private label merchandise from approximately 350 vendors. Our
vendors have facilities in approximately 60 countries. No vendor accounted for more than 3 percent of the dollar amount of our total fiscal 2009 purchases. Of our merchandise sold during fiscal 2009, approximately 1 percent of all units
(representing approximately 2 percent of total cost) were produced domestically while the remaining 99 percent of all units (representing approximately 98 percent of total cost) were produced outside the United States. Approximately 27 percent of
our merchandise units (representing approximately 31 percent of total cost) were produced in China. Events causing disruption of imports from China or other foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions or vendors
potentially failing due to political, financial, or regulatory issues, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. Also see the section
entitled “Risk Factors—Trade matters may disrupt our supply chain” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Seasonal
Business

Our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking over a total of about eight weeks during the holiday period (November through
December).

Brand Building

Our ability
to develop and evolve our existing brands is a key to our success. We believe our distinct brands are among our most important assets. With the exception of Piperlime, virtually all aspects of brand development, from product design and distribution
to marketing, merchandising and shopping environments, are controlled by us. With respect to Piperlime, we control all aspects of brand development except for product design. We continue to invest in our brands and enhance the customer experience
through the remodeling of existing stores, the opening of new stores, the closure of under-performing stores, the enhancement of our online shopping sites, additional investments in marketing, and a focus on customer service.

Trademarks and Service Marks

Gap, GapKids, babyGap,
GapBody, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, and Athleta trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks, have been registered, or are the subject of pending trademark applications, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and
with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law.









Franchising

We have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Gap and/or Banana Republic stores in Australia, Bahrain, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Egypt,
Greece, Indonesia, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mexico, Oman, Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey, and United Arab Emirates. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will
operate, stores that sell apparel purchased from us under our brand names. While we expect this will be a small part of our business in the near future, we plan over time to continue increasing the number of countries in which we enter into these
types of arrangements as part of our efforts to expand internationally. For additional information on risks related to our franchise business, see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our efforts to expand internationally may not be
successful and could impair the value of our brands” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Inventory

The cyclical nature of the retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we and other retailers
generally build up our inventory levels. We review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a sufficient range of sizes) and use markdowns to clear merchandise. Because we
do not carry much replenishment inventory in our stores, much of our inventory is maintained in distribution centers. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences
to succeed” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Competitors

The global specialty apparel retail industry is highly competitive. We compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online
businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. We are also faced with competition in European, Japanese, and Canadian markets from established regional and national chains, and our franchisees face significant competition in the markets in
which they operate. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our business is highly competitive and depends on consumer spending patterns” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Employees

As of January 30, 2010, we had a work
force of approximately 135,000 employees, which includes a combination of part- and full-time employees. We hire seasonal employees primarily during the peak holiday period.

To remain competitive in the apparel retail industry, we must attract, develop, and retain skilled employees, including executives. Competition for such personnel is intense. Our success is dependent to a
significant degree on the continued contributions of key employees. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed” in Item 1A of this
Form 10-K.

Available Information

We make available on our website, gapinc.com, under “Investors, Financials, SEC Filings,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those
reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish them to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

Our Code of Business Conduct, Board of Directors Committee Charters (Audit and Finance, Compensation and Management Development, and Governance and Nominating Committees), and Corporate Governance Guidelines are also available on our
website. The Code of Business Conduct can be found at gapinc.com, under “Investors, Corporate Compliance, Code of Business Conduct.” Any amendments and waivers to the code will also be available on the website. The Committee Charters and
Governance Guidelines can be found on our website under “Investors, Governance.”



6      GAPINC. FORM10-K






Executive Officers of the
Registrant

The following are our executive officers:

Name, Age, Position, and Principal Occupation during Past Five Years:

Michelle Banks, 46, Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer since March 2008; Senior Vice President
and General Counsel from November 2006 to March 2008; Vice President from March 2005 to November 2006; Associate General Counsel from February 2003 to March 2005; Senior Corporate Counsel from January 1999 to February 2003.

Marka Hansen, 55, President, Gap North
America since February 2007; President of Banana Republic from June 2003 to February 2007; Executive Vice President of Gap Adult Merchandising from February 2002 to June 2003; Senior Vice President of Human Resources from March 2000 to February
2002; Senior Vice President of Merchandising, International Division, from April 1995 to March 2000; Vice President of Merchandising from April 1990 to April 1995.

John T. (Tom) Keiser, 44, Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer since January 2010;
Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of The Limited Brands, Inc., an apparel company, from 2006 to October 2009; Senior Vice President, INSIGHT Program of The Limited Brands, Inc. from 2004 to 2006.

Glenn Murphy, 48, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer since August 2007; Chief Executive Officer of Shoppers Drug Mart Corporation, a drug store chain, from 2001 to 2007.

Art Peck, 54, Executive Vice President of Strategy and Operations since May 2005; President, Gap Inc. Outlet since October 2008; Acting
President, Gap Inc. Outlet from February 2008 to October 2008; Senior Vice President of The Boston Consulting Group, a business consulting firm, from 1982 to May 2005; Director of The Boston Consulting Group from 1988 to 2005.

Eva Sage-Gavin, 51, Executive Vice
President, Global Human Resources and Corporate Affairs since February 2010; Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Communications and Global Responsibility from April 2008 to February 2010; Executive Vice President, Human Resources and
Communications from February 2007 to April 2008; Executive Vice President, Human Resources from March 2003 to February 2007.

Sabrina Simmons, 46, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2008; Executive Vice President,
Corporate Finance from September 2007 to January 2008; Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance and Treasurer from March 2003 to September 2007; Vice President and Treasurer from September 2001 to March 2003.

J. Tom Wyatt, 54, President, Old Navy
since August 2008; Acting President, Old Navy from February 2008 to August 2008; President, Gap Inc. Outlet from February 2007 to February 2008; President, GapBody from March 2006 to February 2007; President and Chief Executive Officer of
Cutter & Buck Inc., an apparel company, from December 2004 to March 2006; Corporate Officer and President, Intimate Apparel and Sportswear of Warnaco Group, Inc., an apparel company, from 2002 to 2004.

