Item 1. Business.

General

The Gap, Inc. (the “Company,” “we,” and “our”) was incorporated in the State of California in July 1969 and was reincorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware in May 1988.

We are a global specialty retailer offering apparel, accessories, and personal care products for men,
women, children, and babies under the Gap, Old Navy, Banana Republic, Piperlime, and Athleta brands. Most of the products sold under our brand names are designed by us and manufactured by independent sources. We also sell products that are designed
and manufactured by branded third parties. We have Company-operated stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Japan, and beginning in November 2010, China and Italy. We also have franchise agreements with unaffiliated
franchisees to operate Gap and Banana Republic stores in many other countries around the world. Under these agreements, third parties operate or will operate stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names.

Gap.Gap products are
sold in three channels: full price retail stores, online, and outlet. Founded in 1969, Gap stores offer an extensive selection of classically styled, high quality, casual apparel at moderate price points. Products range from wardrobe basics such as
denim, khakis, and T-shirts to fashion apparel, accessories, and personal care products for men and women. In 1986, we entered the children’s apparel market with the introduction of GapKids, and in 1989, we established babyGap. These stores
offer casual apparel and accessories in the tradition of Gap style and quality for children ages newborn through pre-teen. We also offer maternity apparel. In 1998, we launched GapBody, offering women’s underwear, sleepwear, loungewear, and
sports and active apparel. We operate Gap Outlet stores, which carry similar categories of products at lower price points. In 1997, we introduced Gap Online, an online store found at gap.com. Gap Online offers products comparable to those
carried in Gap, GapKids, babyGap, and GapBody stores, as well as extended sizes not found in stores. Beginning in 2010, customers in Canada can shop online at gapcanada.ca, customers in the United Kingdom and select European countries can shop
online at gap.eu, customers in China can shop online at gap.cn, and customers in select international countries can shop online at gap.com.

Banana Republic.Banana Republic products are sold in three channels: full price retail
stores, online, and outlet. Acquired in 1983 with two stores, Banana Republic offers sophisticated, fashionable collections of casual and tailored apparel, shoes, accessories, and personal care products for men and women at higher price points
than Gap. We operate Banana Republic Factory Stores, which carry similar categories of products at lower price points. In 1999, we introduced Banana Republic Online, an online store found at bananarepublic.com, which offers products
comparable to those carried in the store collections, as well as extended sizes not found in stores. Beginning in 2010, customers in Canada can shop online at bananarepublic.ca, customers in the United Kingdom and select European countries can shop
online at bananarepublic.eu, and customers in select international countries can shop online at bananarepublic.com.

Old Navy.Old Navy products are sold in two channels: full price retail stores and online. We launched Old Navy in 1994 to address the
market for value-priced family apparel. Old Navy offers broad selections of apparel, shoes, and accessories for adults, children, and babies, as well as other items, including a maternity line, consumables, and personal care products. In 2000,
we established Old Navy Online, an online store found at oldnavy.com. Old Navy Online offers apparel and accessories comparable to those carried in the store collections, as well as a plus size line not found in stores. Beginning in 2010,
customers in Canada can shop online at oldnavy.ca and customers in select international countries can shop online at oldnavy.com.

Piperlime.In 2006, we
launched Piperlime, an online-only store found at piperlime.com. Piperlime offers customers an assortment of the leading brands in footwear, handbags, apparel, and jewelry for women and footwear for men and kids, as well as tips, trends, and advice
from leading style authorities. Beginning in 2010, customers in select international countries can shop online at piperlime.com.



6       GAPINC. FORM10-K




Athleta.Athleta products are sold in two channels: full price retail stores and online. Acquired in September 2008, Athleta offers customers high quality and performance-driven women’s sports and active
apparel and footwear that is stylish and functional for a variety of activities, including golf, running, skiing and snowboarding, tennis, and yoga. In May 2010, we opened a test store in Mill Valley, California, and in January 2011, we opened a
flagship store in San Francisco, California. Customers can purchase Athleta product, as well as an assortment of products from leading brands in women’s active-wear, online at athleta.com, through the catalog, or in our stores. Beginning in
2010, customers in select international countries can shop online at athleta.com.

All sales are tendered for cash, personal checks, debit cards, or
credit cards. We also issue and redeem gift cards through our brands. Gap, Banana Republic, and Old Navy each have a private label credit card program and a co-branded credit card program through which frequent customers receive benefits. Private
label and co-branded credit cards are provided by a third-party financing company.

Our stores offer a shopper-friendly environment with an assortment of
casual apparel and accessories that emphasize style, quality, and good value. The range of merchandise displayed in each store varies depending on the selling season and the size and location of the store. Stores are generally open seven days per
week (where permitted by law) and most holidays.

We ended fiscal year 2010 with 3,246 Company-operated and franchise store locations. For more
information on the number of stores by brand and region, see the table in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included as Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Certain financial information about international operations is set forth under the heading “Segment Information” in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Merchandise Vendors

We purchase private label merchandise from approximately 590 vendors and non-private label merchandise from approximately 430 vendors. Our vendors have facilities
in approximately 50 countries. No vendor accounted for more than 3 percent of the dollar amount of our total fiscal 2010 purchases. Of our merchandise sold during fiscal 2010, approximately 1 percent of all units (representing approximately 2
percent of total cost) were produced domestically, while the remaining 99 percent of all units (representing approximately 98 percent of total cost) were produced outside the United States. Approximately 27 percent of our merchandise units
(representing approximately 30 percent of total cost) were produced in China. Product cost increases or events causing disruption of imports from China or other foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions or vendors
potentially failing due to political, financial, or regulatory issues, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. Also see the sections
entitled “Risk Factors—Trade matters may disrupt our supply chain” and “Risk Factors—Our Products are subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing, including increased product costs” in
Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Seasonal Business

Our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking over a total of about eight weeks during the end-of-year holiday period.

Brand Building

Our ability to develop and evolve our existing brands is key to our success. We
believe our distinct brands are among our most important assets. With the exception of Piperlime, virtually all aspects of brand development, from product design and distribution to marketing, merchandising and shopping environments, are controlled
by Gap Inc. employees. With respect to Piperlime, we control all aspects of brand development except for product design related to third-party products. We continue to invest in our brands and enhance the customer experience through the remodeling
of existing stores, the opening of new stores, the closure of under-performing stores, international expansion, the enhancement of our online shopping sites, additional investments in marketing, and continued focus on customer service.







Trademarks and Service Marks

Gap, GapKids, babyGap, GapBody, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, and Athleta trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks, have been registered, or are the subject of pending trademark
applications, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law.

Franchising

We have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Gap and/or Banana
Republic stores in a number of countries, including Australia, Bahrain, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Egypt, Greece, Indonesia, Israel, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mexico, Oman, Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia,
Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey, and United Arab Emirates. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. We continue to increase the number of
countries in which we enter into these types of arrangements as part of our efforts to expand internationally. For additional information on risks related to our franchise business, see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our efforts to
expand internationally may not be successful and could impair the value of our brands” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Inventory

The cyclical nature of the retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we,
along with other retailers, generally build up inventory levels. We review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a sufficient range of sizes) and use markdowns to clear
merchandise. As we do not carry much replenishment inventory in our stores, much of our inventory is maintained in distribution centers. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing
consumer preferences to succeed” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Competitors

The global specialty apparel retail industry is highly competitive. We compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store
chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. We are also faced with competition in European, Japanese, Chinese, and Canadian markets from established regional and national chains, and our
franchisees face significant competition in the markets in which they operate. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our business is highly competitive” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Employees

As of January 29, 2011, we had a
work force of approximately 134,000 employees, which includes a combination of part- and full-time employees. We hire seasonal employees primarily during the peak holiday period.

To remain competitive in the apparel retail industry, we must attract, develop, and retain skilled employees, including executives. Competition for such personnel is intense. Our success is dependent to a
significant degree on the continued contributions of key employees. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed” in Item 1A of this
Form 10-K.

Available Information

We make available on our website, gapinc.com, under “Investors, Financial Information, SEC Filings,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish them to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).



8       GAPINC. FORM10-K




Our Board of Directors Committee Charters (Audit and Finance, Compensation and Management Development, and Governance
and Nominating Committees), and Corporate Governance Guidelines are also available on our website under “Investors, Governance.” The Code of Business Conduct can be found at gapinc.com, under “Investors, Corporate Compliance, Code of
Business Conduct.” Any amendments and waivers to the code will also be available on the website.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following are our executive officers:

Name, Age, Position, and Principal Occupation:

Michelle Banks, 47, Executive Vice
President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer since March 2011; Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer from March 2008 to March 2011; Senior Vice President and
General Counsel from November 2006 to March 2008; Vice President from March 2005 to November 2006; Associate General Counsel from February 2003 to March 2005; Senior Corporate Counsel from January 1999 to February 2003.

John T. (Tom) Keiser, 45, Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer since January 2010; Executive Vice President and Chief
Information Officer of The Limited Brands, Inc., an apparel company, from 2006 to October 2009; Senior Vice President, INSIGHT Program of The Limited Brands, Inc. from 2004 to 2006.

Glenn Murphy, 49, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since August 2007; Chief Executive Officer of Shoppers Drug Mart Corporation, a drug
store chain, from 2001 to 2007.

Art Peck, 55, President, Gap North America since February 2011; Executive Vice President of
Strategy and Operations from May 2005 to February 2011; President, Gap Inc. Outlet from October 2008 to February 2011; Acting President, Gap Inc. Outlet from February 2008 to October 2008; Senior Vice President of The Boston Consulting Group, a
business consulting firm, from 1982 to May 2005.

Stanley P. Raggio, 54, Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain since March
2010; Senior Vice President, Gap International Sourcing from March 2006 to March 2010; Retired from 2002 to 2006; Senior Vice President, International Sourcing & Logistics from 1995 to 2002; Vice President, International Logistics from 1990
to 1995.

Eva Sage-Gavin, 52, Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources and Corporate Affairs since February 2010;
Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Communications and Global Responsibility from April 2008 to February 2010; Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Communications from February 2007 to April 2008; Executive Vice President, Human
Resources from March 2003 to February 2007.

Sabrina Simmons, 47, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
January 2008; Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance from September 2007 to January 2008; Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance and Treasurer from March 2003 to September 2007; Vice President and Treasurer from September 2001 to March 2003.

J. Tom Wyatt, 55, President, Old Navy since August 2008; Acting President, Old Navy from February 2008 to August 2008; President,
Gap Inc. Outlet from February 2007 to February 2008; President, GapBody from March 2006 to February 2007.

