Item 1. Business.

General

The Gap, Inc. (Gap Inc., the “Company,” “we,” and “our”) was incorporated in the State of California in July 1969 and was reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in May 1988.

Gap Inc. is a leading global apparel retail company. We offer apparel, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, children, and babies under the Gap, Old Navy, Banana Republic, Piperlime, Athleta, and Intermix brands. Our global portfolio of distinct brands across multiple channels and geographies gives us a competitive advantage in the global retail marketplace. We operate in the specialty, outlet, online, and franchise channels.

Gap Inc. has Company-operated stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Japan, China, and Italy. We also have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Gap and Banana Republic stores throughout Asia, Australia, Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. We have grown our franchise store base to312stores in 40 countries at the end of fiscal 2012. Our products are also available to customers online in over 80 countries. Most of the products sold under our brand names are designed by us and manufactured by independent sources. We also sell products that are designed and manufactured by branded third parties, especially at our Piperlime and Intermix brands.

Gap.Founded in 1969, Gap is our flagship brand and remains one of the most iconic apparel brands in the marketplace today. The brand stands for casual, American style and offers classic apparel at accessible price points to help customers express their individuality. In addition to designing its own merchandise, Gap offers limited capsule collections in partnership with some of the fashion industry’s best-loved designers and other third-party merchandise from time to time.

Gap entered the children’s apparel market in 1986 with GapKids and in 1989 with babyGap. Maternity apparel was later added to the collection. In 1998, we launched GapBody, which offers loungewear, sleepwear, intimates, and active apparel for women. Today, Gap products are available globally in our specialty and outlet stores, online, and in franchise stores.

Banana Republic.Banana Republic is a global apparel and accessories brand that focuses on delivering modern, covetable workplace style for both men and women. The brand offers versatile workwear that can be styled for any occasion - from desk to dinner. Banana Republic also partners with notable fashion designers to offer exclusive limited-edition collections inspired by the designers' distinct styles and trends.

Acquired in 1983 with two stores, Banana Republic has evolved to offer collections that include apparel, handbags, shoes, jewelry, personal care products, and eyewear for men and women at higher price points than Gap. Today, customers can purchase Banana Republic products in our specialty and outlet stores, online, and in franchise stores.

Old Navy.Old Navy opened its first store in 1994, offering fun, fashion, and value to the whole family. The brand offers customers on-trend clothing and accessories, as well as updated basics for adults, children, and babies, at great prices in a unique and energizing shopping environment. Customers can purchase Old Navy products in stores and online, which includes online-exclusive items such as a plus-size line. In July 2012, the brand opened its first store outside of North America in Odaiba, Japan.

Piperlime.Launched in 2006, Piperlime offers a mix of private-label and branded apparel and jewelry as well as leading brands in shoes and handbags. The brand inspires customers with a fresh and unique mix of products, brands, and price points, as well as favorite picks and tips on how to wear the season's trends from famous guest editors. Customers can shop online and in the brand's first store, which opened in the SoHo neighborhood of New York in September 2012.

Athleta.Acquired in September 2008, Athleta is Gap Inc.’s premier brand in the rapidly growing women's active apparel market. Athleta offers high-quality, stylish, and functional apparel, footwear, and accessories across a wide variety of sports and fitness activities, including crossover apparel and casualwear. Customers can purchase Athleta products online, in stores, and through catalogs.

Intermix.Gap, Inc. acquired Intermix Holdco Inc. ("Intermix") on December 31, 2012. Intermix is known for its tasteful mixing of luxury and contemporary fashion and offering the most coveted existing and up-and-coming designer brands. In addition to its array of seasonal must-haves, Intermix also offers exclusive designer product. Customers can shop in stores in the United States and Canada and online.









All sales are tendered for cash, debit cards, credit cards, or personal checks. We also issue and redeem gift cards through our brands. Gap, Banana Republic, and Old Navy each have a private label credit card program and a co-branded credit card program through which frequent customers receive benefits. Private label and co-branded credit cards are provided by a third-party financing company.

The range of merchandise displayed in each store varies depending on the selling season and the size and location of the store. Stores are generally open seven days per week (where permitted by law) and most holidays.

We endedfiscal 2012with3,407Company-operated and franchise store locations. For more information on the number of stores by brand and region, see the table in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Duringfiscal 2012, we operated two reportable segments: Stores and Direct.

Certain financial information about our reportable segments and international operations is set forth under the heading “Segment Information” in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



Merchandise Vendors

We purchase private label and non-private label merchandise from over 1,000 vendors. Our vendors have facilities in about 40 countries. No vendor accounted for more than 5 percent of the dollar amount of our totalfiscal 2012purchases. Of our merchandise purchased duringfiscal 2012, approximately 98 percent of all units were produced outside the United States, while the remaining 2 percent of all units were produced domestically. Approximately 26 percent of our merchandise units were produced in China. Product cost increases or events causing disruption of imports from China or other foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions or vendors potentially failing due to political, financial, or regulatory issues, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. Also see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—Our business, including our costs and supply chain, is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing” and “Risk Factors—Trade matters may disrupt our supply chain” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



Seasonal Business

Our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking over a total of about eight weeks during the end-of-year holiday period.



Brand Building

Our ability to develop and evolve our existing brands is a key to our success. We believe our distinct brands are among our most important assets. With the exception of Piperlime and Intermix, virtually all aspects of brand development, from product design and distribution to marketing, merchandising and shopping environments, are controlled by Gap Inc. employees. With respect to Piperlime and Intermix, we control all aspects of brand development except for product design related to third-party products. We continue to invest in our brands and enhance the customer experience through significant investments in marketing, enhancement of our online shopping sites, international expansion, remodeling of existing stores, and continued focus on customer service.



Trademarks and Service Marks

Gap, GapKids, babyGap, GapBody, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, Athleta, and Intermix trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks, have been registered, or are the subject of pending trademark applications, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law.



Franchising

We have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Gap and Banana Republic stores in a number of countries throughout Asia, Australia, Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. We continue to increase the number of countries in which we enter into these types of arrangements as part of our strategy to expand internationally. For additional information on risks related to our franchise business, see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—Our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful” and “Risk Factors—Our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control and could impair the value of our brands” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.











Inventory

The nature of the retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak holiday selling season when we, along with other retailers, generally build up inventory levels. We maintain a large part of our inventory in distribution centers. We review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a sufficient range of sizes or colors) and we primarily use markdowns to clear merchandise. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



Competitors

The global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. We compete with local, national, and global apparel retailers. We are also faced with competition in European, Japanese, Chinese, and Canadian markets from established regional and national chains, and our franchisees face significant competition in the markets in which they operate. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our business is highly competitive” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



Employees

As ofFebruary 2, 2013, we had a workforce of approximately136,000employees, which includes a combination of part-time and full-time employees. We also hire seasonal employees, primarily during the peak end-of-year holiday period. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

To remain competitive in the apparel retail industry, we must attract, develop, and retain skilled employees in our design, merchandising, marketing, and other functions. Competition for such personnel is intense. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key employees. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



Available Information

We make available on our website, www.gapinc.com, under “Investors, Financial Information, SEC Filings,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish them to the SEC.

Our Board of Directors Committee Charters (Audit and Finance, Compensation and Management Development, and Governance and Nominating Committees) and Corporate Governance Guidelines are also available on our website under “Investors, Governance.” The Code of Business Conduct can be found on our website under “Investors, Corporate Compliance, Code of Business Conduct.” Any amendments and waivers to the code will also be available on the website.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following are our executive officers:

Name, Age, Position, and Principal Occupation:

Michelle Banks, 49, Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer since March 2011; Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer from March 2008 to March 2011; Senior Vice President and General Counsel from November 2006 to March 2008; Vice President from March 2005 to November 2006; Associate General Counsel from February 2003 to March 2005; Senior Corporate Counsel from January 1999 to February 2003.

Jack Calhoun, 48, Global President, Banana Republic Brand since November 2012; President, Banana Republic North America from 2007 to October 2012; Executive Vice President, Merchandising and Marketing, Banana Republic North America from 2003 to 2007.

Colin Funnell, 51, Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain since September 2011; Senior Vice President, Supply Chain Strategy, Strategic Sourcing, and Global Logistics from June 2010 to August 2011; Senior Vice President, Corporate Operations and Logistics from 2008 to June 2010; Senior Vice President, Logistics from 2006 to 2007; Senior Vice President, Global Production and Old Navy Supply Chain from 2004 to 2005.

John T. (Tom) Keiser, 47, Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer since January 2010; Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of The Limited Brands, Inc., an apparel company, from 2006 to October 2009; Senior Vice President, INSIGHT Program of The Limited Brands, Inc. from 2004 to 2006.









Stefan Larsson, 38, Global President, Old Navy Brand since October 2012; Head of Global Sales, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB from 2010 to 2012; Head of Global Expansion, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB from 2009 to 2010; Head of Operations, Global Expansion, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB from 2007 to 2009; Regional Manager, U.S. West Coast, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB from 2005 to 2007.

Glenn Murphy, 51, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since August 2007; Chief Executive Officer of Shoppers Drug Mart Corporation, a drug store chain, from 2001 to 2007.

Art Peck, 57, President, Growth, Innovation, and Digital division since November 2012; President, Gap North America from February 2011 to November 2012; Executive Vice President of Strategy and Operations from May 2005 to February 2011; President, Gap Inc. Outlet from October 2008 to February 2011; Acting President, Gap Inc. Outlet from February 2008 to October 2008; Senior Vice President of The Boston Consulting Group, a business consulting firm, from 1982 to May 2005.

Eva Sage-Gavin, 54, Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources and Corporate Affairs since February 2010; Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Communications and Global Responsibility from April 2008 to February 2010; Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Communications from February 2007 to April 2008; Executive Vice President, Human Resources from March 2003 to February 2007.

Sabrina Simmons, 49, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2008; Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance from September 2007 to January 2008; Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance and Treasurer from March 2003 to September 2007; Vice President and Treasurer from September 2001 to March 2003.

Stephen Sunnucks, 55, Global President, Gap Brand since November 2012; President, Gap Inc. International from April 2011 to November 2012; President, Gap Inc. Europe and International Strategic Alliances from April 2009 to April 2011; President, Gap Inc. Europe from June 2005 to April 2009.



