Item 1. Business.

General

The Gap, Inc. (Gap Inc., the “Company,” “we,” and “our”) was incorporated in the State of California in July 1969 and was reincorporated in the State of Delaware in May 1988.

Gap Inc. is a leading global apparel retail company. We offer apparel, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, and children under the Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic, Athleta, Intermix, Janie and Jack, and Hill City brands. Our portfolio of distinct brands across multiple channels and geographies, combined with our size and scale which allows for strategic and advantageous partnerships with our third-party vendors and suppliers throughout the organization, gives us a competitive advantage in the global retail marketplace.

Gap Inc. is an omni-channel retailer, with sales to customers both in stores and online, through Company-operated and franchise stores, websites, and third-party arrangements. Gap Inc. has Company-operated stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Japan, Italy, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Mexico. We also have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Old Navy, Gap, and Banana Republic stores throughout Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. Most of the products sold under our brand names are designed by us and manufactured by independent sources. We also sell products that are designed and manufactured by branded third parties, primarily at our Intermix brand.

Gap Inc. uses omni-channel capabilities to bridge the digital world and physical stores, creating world-class shopping experiences regardless of where or how our customers shop. The Company's suite of omni-channel services, including order-in-store, reserve-in-store, find-in-store, buy-online-pick-up-in-store, and ship-from-store, as well as mobile shopping experiences, are uniquely tailored across its portfolio of brands.

Old Navy.Old Navy is an American value apparel brand that makes current essentials accessible to everyone. The brand celebrates the democracy of style through on-trend, playfully optimistic, affordable, high-quality product, and inclusive size ranges. Old Navy is committed to creating incredible shopping experiences regardless of where, when and how customers choose to shop, including a fun store experience, a dynamic online channel and convenient omni-channel capabilities. Old Navy opened its first store in 1994 in the United States and since has expanded to more than 1,200 stores, including Company-operated stores in Canada, China, and Mexico, as well as franchise stores around the world. Old Navy believes in the power of the next generation, and through its cause platform, Onward!, supports the Boys & Girls Clubs of America to help turn learners into leaders.

Gap.Gap is an iconic apparel and accessories brands anchored in optimistic, casual, American style. Founded in San Francisco in 1969, the brand's collections continue to build the foundation of modern wardrobes—all things denim, tees, fleece, and khakis, along with must-have trends.

Gap is designed to build the foundation of modern wardrobes through every stage of life with apparel and accessories for adult men and women under the Gap name, in addition to GapKids, babyGap, GapMaternity, GapBody, and GapFit collections. Beginning in 1987 with the opening of the first store outside North America in London, Gap continues to connect with customers around the world through specialty stores, online, and franchise stores. In addition, we bring the brand to value-conscious customers, with exclusively designed collections for Gap Outlet and Gap Factory stores and online.

Banana Republic.Acquired in 1983 as a travel and adventure outfitter, Banana Republic is now a global apparel and accessories brand focused on delivering modern, versatile classics designed for a life with no boundaries. Curious, connected and out in the world, Banana Republic provides a wardrobe of favorites—clothing, eyewear, jewelry, shoes, handbags, and fragrances—all made for a life in motion with the finest materials and fabric innovations. Customers can purchase Banana Republic products globally in our specialty stores, factory stores, online, and franchise stores.








Athleta.Athleta is a premium fitness and lifestyle brand creating beautiful, technical, sustainable apparel to inspire a community of active, confident women and girls. Established in 1998 and acquired by Gap Inc. in 2008, Athleta integrates technical features and innovative design across its women's collection to carry her through a life in motion, from yoga, training and sports, to everyday activities and travel. In 2016, the Company launched Athleta Girl, mirroring its signature performance in styles for the next generation. In 2019, Athleta announced its partnership with decorated track and field athlete and activist, Allyson Felix, to empower women and girls through sports. Ms. Felix became Athleta's first-ever sponsored athlete. Customers can purchase Athleta products in the United States through its stores and catalogs, or globally online.

Athleta has been certified as a benefit corporation ("B Corp"), furthering its commitment to using our business as a force for good to drive social and environmental impact. The Company met rigorous standards across social and environmental performance, accountability, and transparency. Additionally, Athleta's legal charter was amended to become a Delaware public benefit corporation, further demonstrating its commitment to people and the planet. With this accreditation, Gap Inc. has become one of the largest publicly-traded retail companies with a B Corp certified subsidiary apparel brand.

Intermix.Intermix is a curated, omni-channel, women's fashion business comprised of 33 boutiques with hyper-localized assortments and a growing e-commerce channel. The brand is known for curating the most sought-after styles from a compelling mix of both established and emerging designers. Founded in 1993 and acquired by Gap Inc. in 2012, Intermix delivers a highly personalized shopping experience across both channels, with complimentary personal stylists on-hand to work one-on-one with clients to create looks that make them feel confident while making fashion fun and inspiring.

Janie and Jack.Janie and Jack is a premium children's apparel brand acquired by Gap Inc. in 2019. Janie and Jack is a design house with every kid at heart that encourages individual style from the start. Janie and Jack creates collections featuring modern twists on classic fashion and is known for family moments, thoughtful details and memorable gifts. Customers can shop sizes newborn through 6 years in 139 stores in the United States and all sizes through 12 years online at janieandjack.com.

Hill City.Hill City is a premium-performance men's apparel brand offering highly technical clothing for every part of life. Launched in 2018, Hill City fuses a minimal aesthetic with technical innovation, allowing men to own more versatile clothing. Hill City is a B Corp certified brand, meeting the highest standards for social and environmental performance, transparency, and accountability.

The range of merchandise displayed in each store varies depending on the selling season and the size and location of the store. Stores are generally open seven days per week (where permitted by law) and most holidays.

We endedfiscal 2019with 3,345 Company-operated stores and 574 franchise store locations. For more information on the number of stores by brand and region, see the table included inItem 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Form 10-K.

Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic, and Athleta each have a private label credit card program and a co-branded credit card program through which frequent customers receive benefits. Private label and co-branded credit cards are provided by a third-party financing company, with associated revenue sharing arrangements reflected in Gap Inc. operations. We have a multi-tender loyalty rewards program, Bright Rewards, active across each of these brands in select markets. All of our brands issue and redeem gift cards.

Certain financial information about international operations is set forth under the heading "Segment Information" inNote 17of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included inItem 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.










Product Development

We design, develop, market, and sell a wide range of apparel, footwear and accessories products reflecting a mix of basics and fashion items based on widely accepted fashion trends, striving to bring product to market quickly and provide unrivaled value to customers. Our product teams research, test and iterate each season to deliver the latest styles in fabrics and silhouettes that are made to last. We leverage feedback and purchasing data from our customer database, along with market trend insight, to guide our product and merchandising decision-making.



Marketing and Advertising

We use a variety of marketing and advertising mediums to drive brand health, customer acquisition, and engagement. We leverage our growing customer database and respond to shopping behaviors and needs with personalized content across email, site, and digital media to drive relevance and urgency. Our diversified media mix spans traditional to digital to social media. We focus on productivity of marketing investment to drive increased effectiveness.



Merchandise Vendors

We purchase private label and non-private label merchandise from about 800 vendors. Our vendors have factories in about 30 countries. Our two largest vendors accounted for about 7 and 6 percent of the dollar amount of our total

fiscal 2019

purchases. Of our merchandise purchased during

fiscal 2019

, substantially all purchases, by dollar value, were from factories outside the United States. Approximately 32 percent of our

fiscal 2019

purchases, by dollar value, were from factories in Vietnam. Approximately 16 percent of our

fiscal 2019

purchases, by dollar value, were from factories in China. Product cost increases or events causing disruption of imports from Vietnam, China, or other foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions or taxes, or vendors potentially failing due to political, financial, public health crises or regulatory issues, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. Also see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—Our business is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing," "Risk Factors—Risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our Code of Vendor Conduct, could harm our business,” “Risk Factors—Trade matters may disrupt our supply chain” and "Risk Factors—Our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, negative global climate patterns, or other catastrophic events" in

