Item1. Business.

General

The Gap, Inc. (Gap Inc., the
“Company,” “we,” and “our”) was incorporated in the State of California in July 1969 and was reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in May 1988.

Gap Inc. is a leading global specialty apparel company. We offer apparel, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, children, and babies under the Gap, Old Navy, Banana Republic, Piperlime, and
Athleta brands. Our global portfolio of distinct brands crosses multiple channels and geographies, which gives us a compelling business proposition and a competitive advantage in the retail marketplace.

Gap Inc. has Company-operated stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Japan, China, and Italy. We also have franchise agreements
with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Gap and Banana Republic stores throughout Asia, Australia, Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate or will operate stores that sell apparel
and related products under our brand names. We have more than tripled our franchise store base from the end of fiscal 2007 to 227 stores at the end of fiscal 2011. Our products are also available to customers online in over 90 countries through
company-owned websites and using a U.S.-based third party that provides logistics and fulfillment services. Most of the products sold under our brand names are designed by us and manufactured by independent sources. We also sell products that are
designed and manufactured by branded third parties.

Gap.Founded in 1969, Gap is our flagship brand and remains one of the most iconic apparel brands in the marketplace today. The brand stands for casual, American style – at accessible price points.
Assortments include well-designed apparel for men and women, including denim, khakis, outerwear, tees, and accessories. In addition to designing its own merchandise, Gap offers limited “capsule” collections in partnership with some of the
fashion industry’s best-loved designers and other third-party merchandise from time to time.

Gap entered the children’s
apparel market in 1986 with GapKids and in 1989 with babyGap. Maternity apparel was later added to the collection. In 1998, we launched GapBody, which offers loungewear, sleepwear, intimates, and active apparel for women. Today, Gap products are
available globally in our specialty and outlet stores, online, and in franchise stores.

Banana Republic.Banana Republic is a global, multi-channel brand that is a destination for modern, versatile work wear for both men and
women.

Acquired in 1983 with two stores, Banana Republic has evolved to offer collections that include apparel, handbags, shoes,
jewelry, personal care products, and eyewear for men and women at higher price points than Gap brand. Today, customers can purchase Banana Republic products in our specialty and outlet stores, online, and in franchise stores.

Old Navy.Old Navy
opened its first store in 1994, offering customers great product at great prices. The brand targets young families, with a focus on providing a fun shopping environment and value-priced apparel. Today, Old Navy continues to offer on-trend selections
of value-priced apparel, shoes, and accessories for adults, children, and babies, as well as other items, including a maternity line and consumables. Customers can purchase Old Navy products in stores in the U.S. and Canada and online, which
includes online-exclusive items such as a plus-size line.

Piperlime.Launched in
2006, Piperlime is an online fashion boutique. The brand offers customers a fresh and unique mix of private label and leading brands in footwear, apparel, and accessories for women and men, as well as footwear for kids. Customers will also find
exclusive advice, tips, and trends from leading style experts.







Athleta.Acquired in September 2008, Athleta is Gap Inc.’s newest brand. Athleta offers performance-driven women’s sports and active apparel and footwear for a variety of activities, including golf,
running, skiing, snowboarding, tennis, swimming, and yoga. In addition to Athleta’s high-quality products, customers can purchase an assortment of products from leading brands in women’s active wear. Customers can purchase Athleta products
online, through a catalog, and beginning in 2010, in our stores.

All sales are tendered for cash, personal checks, debit cards, or credit cards. We
also issue and redeem gift cards through our brands. Gap, Banana Republic, and Old Navy each have a private label credit card program and a co-branded credit card program through which frequent customers receive benefits. Private label and
co-branded credit cards are provided by a third-party financing company.

Our stores offer a shopper-friendly environment with an assortment of apparel
and accessories that emphasize style, quality, and good value. The range of merchandise displayed in each store varies depending on the selling season and the size and location of the store. Stores are generally open seven days per week (where
permitted by law) and most holidays.

We ended fiscal 2011 with 3,263 Company-operated and franchise store locations. For more information on the number
of stores by brand and region, see the table in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

During fiscal 2011, we operated two reportable segments: Stores and Direct.

Certain financial information about our reportable segments and international operations is set forth under the heading “Segment Information” in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Merchandise Vendors

We purchase private label and non-private label merchandise from over 1,000 vendors. Our vendors have facilities in 43 countries. No vendor accounted for more than 4 percent of the dollar amount of our total fiscal
2011 purchases. Of our merchandise sold during fiscal 2011, approximately 98 percent of all units were produced outside the United States, while the remaining 2 percent of all units were produced domestically. Approximately 26 percent of our
merchandise units were produced in China. Product cost increases or events causing disruption of imports from China or other foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions or vendors potentially failing due to
political, financial, or regulatory issues, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. Also see the sections entitled
“Risk Factors—Our Products are subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing, including increased product costs” and “Risk Factors—Trade matters may disrupt our supply chain” in Item 1A of
this Form 10-K.

Seasonal Business

Our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking over a total of about eight weeks during the end-of-year holiday period.

Brand Building

Our ability to develop and evolve
our existing brands is key to our success. We believe our distinct brands are among our most important assets. With the exception of Piperlime, virtually all aspects of brand development, from product design and distribution to marketing,
merchandising and shopping environments, are controlled by Gap Inc. employees. With respect to Piperlime, we control all aspects of brand development except for product design related to third-party products. We continue to invest in our brands and
enhance the customer experience through significant investments in marketing, enhancement of our online shopping sites, international expansion, remodeling of existing stores, and continued focus on customer service.



6       GAPINC. FORM10-K




Trademarks and Service Marks

Gap, GapKids, babyGap, GapBody, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, and Athleta trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks, have been registered, or are the subject of pending trademark
applications, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law.

Franchising

We have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Gap and/or Banana
Republic stores in a number of countries, including Australia, Bahrain, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, Cyprus, Egypt, Greece, Guam, Indonesia, Israel, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Oman, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, and Vietnam. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell
apparel and related products under our brand names. We continue to increase the number of countries in which we enter into these types of arrangements as part of our strategy to expand internationally. For additional information on risks related to
our franchise business, see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—Our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful” and “Risk Factors—Our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our
control and could impair the value of our brands” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Inventory

The nature of the retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we, along with other
retailers, generally build up inventory levels. We maintain a large part of our inventory in distribution centers. We review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a
sufficient range of sizes or colors) and use markdowns to clear merchandise. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed” in Item 1A of this
Form 10-K.

Competitors

The global
specialty apparel retail industry is highly competitive. We compete with local, national, and global apparel retailers. We are also faced with competition in European, Japanese, Chinese, and Canadian markets from established regional and national
chains, and our franchisees face significant competition in the markets in which they operate. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our business is highly competitive” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Employees

As of January 28, 2012, we had a
work force of approximately 132,000 employees, which includes a combination of part- and full-time employees. We also hire seasonal employees, primarily during the peak end-of-year holiday period.

To remain competitive in the apparel retail industry, we must attract, develop, and retain skilled employees, including executives. Competition for such personnel
is intense. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key employees. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to
succeed” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Available Information

We make available on our website, gapinc.com, under “Investors, Financial Information, SEC Filings,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish them to the SEC.

Our Board of
Directors Committee Charters (Audit and Finance, Compensation and Management Development, and Governance and Nominating Committees) and Corporate Governance Guidelines are also available on our website under “Investors, Governance.” The
Code of Business Conduct can be found at gapinc.com under “Investors, Corporate Compliance, Code of Business Conduct.” Any amendments and waivers to the code will also be available on the website.







Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following are our executive officers:

Name, Age, Position, and Principal Occupation:

Michelle Banks, 48, Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer since March
2011; Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer from March 2008 to March 2011; Senior Vice President and General Counsel from November 2006 to March 2008; Vice President from March 2005 to
November 2006; Associate General Counsel from February 2003 to March 2005; Senior Corporate Counsel from January 1999 to February 2003.

Colin Funnell, 50, Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain since September 2011; Senior Vice President, Supply Chain Strategy,
Strategic Sourcing, and Global Logistics from June 2010 to August 2011; Senior Vice President, Corporate Operations and Logistics from 2008 to June 2010; Senior Vice President, Logistics from 2006 to 2007; Senior Vice President, Global Production
and Old Navy Supply Chain from 2004 to 2005.

John T. (Tom) Keiser, 46, Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer
since January 2010; Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of The Limited Brands, Inc., an apparel company, from 2006 to October 2009; Senior Vice President, INSIGHT Program of The Limited Brands, Inc. from 2004 to 2006.

Glenn Murphy, 50, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since August 2007; Chief Executive Officer of Shoppers Drug Mart Corporation, a drug
store chain, from 2001 to 2007.

Art Peck, 56, President, Gap North America since February 2011; Executive Vice President of
Strategy and Operations from May 2005 to February 2011; President, Gap Inc. Outlet from October 2008 to February 2011; Acting President, Gap Inc. Outlet from February 2008 to October 2008; Senior Vice President of The Boston Consulting Group, a
business consulting firm, from 1982 to May 2005.

Eva Sage-Gavin, 53, Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources and
Corporate Affairs since February 2010; Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Communications and Global Responsibility from April 2008 to February 2010; Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Communications from February 2007 to April
2008; Executive Vice President, Human Resources from March 2003 to February 2007.

Sabrina Simmons, 48, Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer since January 2008; Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance from September 2007 to January 2008; Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance and Treasurer from March 2003 to September 2007; Vice President and Treasurer
from September 2001 to March 2003.

