Item 1. Business.

General

The Gap, Inc. (Gap Inc., the “Company,” “we,” and “our”) was incorporated in the State of California in July 1969 and was reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in May 1988.

Gap Inc. is a leading global apparel retail company. We offer apparel, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, and children under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, Athleta, and Intermix brands. Our portfolio of distinct brands across multiple channels and geographies gives us a competitive advantage in the global retail marketplace. In January 2015, we announced our decision to close the Piperlime brand. We expect to close the online platform and the store in New York by the end of the first half of fiscal 2015.

Gap Inc. has Company-operated stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Japan, Italy, China, Hong Kong, and as of March 2014, Taiwan. We also have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Gap, Banana Republic, and Old Navy stores throughout Asia, Australia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. Our products are also available to customers online through Company-owned websites and through the use of third parties that provide logistics and fulfillment services. Most of the products sold under our brand names are designed by us and manufactured by independent sources. We also sell products that are designed and manufactured by branded third parties, especially at our Piperlime and Intermix brands.

In addition to operating in the specialty, outlet, online, and franchise channels, Gap Inc. is a leader among apparel retailers in using omni-channel capabilities to bridge the digital world and physical stores, creating world-class shopping experiences regardless of where customers shop. The Company’s omni-channel services, including order-in-store, reserve-in-store, find-in-store, and ship-from-store, are tailored uniquely across its portfolio of brands.

Gap.Gap is one of the world's most iconic apparel and accessories brands anchored in American casual style. Founded in San Francisco in 1969, our collections continue to build the foundation of modern wardrobes - all things denim, classic white shirts, and khakis along with must-have trends.

Gap includes apparel and accessories for men and women, GapKids, babyGap, GapMaternity, GapBody, and GapFit collections. Beginning in 1987 with the opening of our first store outside North America in London, Gap continues to connect with customers around the world through specialty stores, online, and franchise stores. Gap also offers a suite of omni-channel services to its customers in the United States. In addition, we bring the brand to our value-conscious customers, with exclusively designed collections for Gap Outlet and Gap Factory Stores.

Banana Republic.Banana Republic is a global apparel and accessories lifestyle brand that delivers modern, covetable style for both men and women. Acquired with two stores in 1983 as a travel and adventure outfitter, Banana Republic has evolved to keep that unique spirit alive while outfitting men and women on the modern day journey of life.

The brand's collections include apparel, handbags, shoes, jewelry, personal care products, and eyewear for men and women at accessible prices. Today, customers can purchase Banana Republic products globally in our specialty and outlet stores, online, and in franchise stores. Banana Republic also offers a suite of omni-channel services to its customers in the United States.










Old Navy.Old Navy opened its first store in 1994, making current American essentials accessible to every family. The brand brings a fun, energizing shopping environment to its customers, offering on-trend clothing and accessories for adults and children at great prices. In 2012, Old Navy opened its first store outside North America in Odaiba, Japan and, since then, has continued to expand its global presence with its first Company-operated stores in China and franchise-operated stores in the Philippines in 2014. Customers can purchase Old Navy products globally in stores, online, and in franchise stores. Old Navy also offers a suite of omni-channel services to its customers in the United States.

Piperlime.Launched in 2006, Piperlime offers a mix of private label and branded apparel and accessories, as well as leading brands in shoes and handbags. In January 2015, the Company announced that it would close its Piperlime brand and focus on its portfolio of five other brands. By the end of the first half of fiscal 2015, the Company expects to discontinue its Piperlime brand, including the Piperlime e-commerce and social sites and the brand’s one store in New York City.

Athleta.Acquired in September 2008, Athleta is Gap Inc.’s premier fitness and lifestyle brand in the rapidly growing women's active apparel market. Athleta creates versatile and fashionable performance and lifestyle apparel for the fitness-minded woman who lives life on the go. Athleta offers apparel and gear for a range of activities from yoga to strength training and running, as well as seasonal sports, including skiing and tennis. Customers can purchase Athleta products online, in stores, and through its catalogs and seamlessly shop through its suite of omni-channel services in the United States.

Intermix.Acquired in December 2012, Intermix curates must-have styles from the most coveted emerging and established designers. Known for styling on-trend pieces in unexpected ways, Intermix delivers a unique point of view and an individualized approach to shopping and personal style. Customers can shop in stores in the United States and Canada, and online.

All sales to customers are tendered for cash, debit cards, credit cards, or personal checks. We also issue and redeem gift cards through our brands. Gap, Banana Republic, and Old Navy each have a private label credit card program and a co-branded credit card program through which frequent customers receive benefits. Private label and co-branded credit cards are provided by a third-party financing company.

The range of merchandise displayed in each store varies depending on the selling season and the size and location of the store. Stores are generally open seven days per week (where permitted by law) and most holidays.

We endedfiscal 2014with3,709Company-operated and franchise store locations. For more information on the number of stores by brand and region, see the table in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Certain financial information about international operations is set forth under the heading "Segment Information" in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



Merchandise Vendors

We purchase private label and non-private label merchandise from over 1,000 vendors. Our vendors have factories in about 40 countries. No vendor accounted for more than 5 percent of the dollar amount of our totalfiscal 2014purchases. Of our merchandise purchased duringfiscal 2014, approximately 98 percent of purchases, by dollar value, were from factories outside the United States, while the remaining 2 percent of all purchases were from domestic factories. Approximately 27 percent of our purchases, by dollar value, were from factories in China. Product cost increases or events causing disruption of imports from China or other foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions or vendors potentially failing due to political, financial, or regulatory issues, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. Also see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—Our business, including our costs and supply chain, is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing," "Risk Factors—Risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our Code of Vendor Conduct, could harm our business,” and “Risk Factors—Trade matters may disrupt our supply chain” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



Seasonal Business

Our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking during the end-of-year holiday period.












Brand Building

Our ability to develop and evolve our existing brands is a key to our success. We believe our distinct brands are among our most important assets. With the exception of Piperlime and Intermix, virtually all aspects of brand development, from product design and distribution to marketing, merchandising and shopping environments, are controlled by Gap Inc. employees. With respect to Piperlime and Intermix, we control all aspects of brand development except for product design related to third-party products. We continue to invest in our business and enhance the customer experience through significant investments in marketing and our omni-channel capabilities, enhancement of our online shopping sites, international expansion, remodeling of existing stores, and investments in our supply chain.



Trademarks and Service Marks

Gap, GapKids, babyGap, GapMaternity, GapBody, GapFit, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, Athleta, and Intermix trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks, have been registered, or are the subject of pending trademark applications, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law.



Franchising

We have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Gap, Banana Republic, and Old Navy stores in a number of countries throughout Asia, Australia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. For additional information on risks related to our franchise business, see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—Our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful” and “Risk Factors—Our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



Inventory

The nature of the retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak holiday selling season when we, along with other retailers, generally build up inventory levels. We maintain a large part of our inventory in distribution centers. We review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a sufficient range of sizes or colors) and we primarily use promotions and markdowns to clear merchandise. Also see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed” and "Risk Factors—If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected" in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



Competitors

The global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. We compete with local, national, and global apparel retailers. We are also faced with competition in European, Japanese, Chinese, and Canadian markets from established regional and national chains, and our franchisees face significant competition in the markets in which they operate. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our business is highly competitive” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



Employees

As ofJanuary 31, 2015, we had a workforce of approximately141,000employees, which includes a combination of part-time and full-time employees. We also hire seasonal employees, primarily during the peak end-of-year holiday period.

To remain competitive in the apparel retail industry, we must attract, develop, and retain skilled employees in our design, merchandising, marketing, and other functions. Competition for such personnel is intense. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key employees. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—The failure to attract and retain key personnel, or effectively manage succession, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.












Available Information

We make available on our website, www.gapinc.com, under “Investors, Financial Information, SEC Filings,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish them to the SEC.

Our Board of Directors Committee Charters (Audit and Finance, Compensation and Management Development, and Governance and Sustainability Committees) and Corporate Governance Guidelines are also available on our website under “Investors, Governance.” Our Code of Business Conduct can be found on our website under “Investors, Corporate Compliance, Code of Business Conduct.” Any amendments and waivers to the code will also be available on the website.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following are our executive officers:

Name, Age, Position, and Principal Occupation:

Arthur Peck, 59, Director and Chief Executive Officer since February 2015; President, Growth, Innovation, and Digital division from November 2012 to January 2015; President, Gap North America from February 2011 to November 2012; Executive Vice President of Strategy and Operations from May 2005 to February 2011; President, Gap Inc. Outlet from October 2008 to February 2011; Acting President, Gap Inc. Outlet from February 2008 to October 2008; Senior Vice President of The Boston Consulting Group, a business consulting firm, from 1982 to 2005.

Michelle Banks, 51, Executive Vice President, Global Sustainability, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer since February 2014; Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer from March 2011 to February 2014; Senior Vice President and General Counsel from November 2006 to March 2008; Vice President from March 2005 to November 2006.

Solomon Goldfarb, 50, Executive Vice President, Digital and Customer Experience since February 2015; Senior Vice President, Digital Platform Strategy and Product Management from February 2013 to January 2015; Senior Vice President, Enterprise Product Management from March 2012 to February 2013; Vice President, International E-Commerce and Product Management from March 2009 to March 2012; Vice President, Growth, Innovation, and Digital Product Management from March 2006 to March 2009.

John T. (Tom) Keiser, 49, Executive Vice President, Global Product Operations since November 2013; Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer from January 2010 to November 2013.

Jeff Kirwan,48, Global President, Gap since December 2014; Executive Vice President and President, Gap China from February 2013 to December 2014; Senior Vice President, Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer, Gap China from May 2011 to February 2013; Senior Vice President, Stores and Operations, Old Navy from August 2008 to May 2011; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Old Navy Canada from March 2008 to August 2008; Vice President and General Manager, Old Navy Canada from April 2007 to March 2008.

Stefan Larsson, 40, Global President, Old Navy since October 2012; Head of Global Sales, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB, an apparel company, from 2010 to 2012; Head of Global Expansion, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB from 2009 to 2010; Head of Operations, Global Expansion, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB from 2007 to 2009; Regional Manager, U.S. West Coast, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB from 2005 to 2007.

Andi Owen,49, Global President, Banana Republic since January 2015; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Global Gap Outlet from January 2013 to January 2015; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Gap Outlet / Shared Services from January 2008 to January 2013; Vice President, Merchandising - Outlet from July 2006 to January 2008.

Sabrina Simmons, 51, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2008; Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance from September 2007 to January 2008; Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance and Treasurer from March 2003 to September 2007; Vice President and Treasurer from September 2001 to March 2003.










Sonia Syngal, 45, Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain and Product Operations since February 2015; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain from November 2013 to January 2015; Senior Vice President,Old Navy International from February 2013 to November 2013; Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Europe from May 2011 to February 2013; Senior Vice President and General Manager,International Outlets from January 2010 to May 2011; Vice President of Global Production, Supply Chain-Outlet from July 2006 to January 2010; Vice President,Corporate Sourcing from July 2004 to July 2006.



