Item 1.    Business





General

Tyco International plc (hereinafter referred to as "we," the "Company" or "Tyco") is a leading global provider of security products and services, fire detection and suppression products and services and life safety products. Our broad portfolio of products and services, sold under well-known brands such as Tyco, SimplexGrinnell, Sensormatic, Wormald, Ansul, Simplex,  Scott and ADT (other than the U.S., Canada and Korea) serve security, fire detection and suppression and life safety needs across commercial, industrial, retail, small business, institutional and governmental markets, as well as non-U.S. residential markets. We hold market-leading positions in large, fragmented industries and we believe that we are well positioned to leverage our global footprint, deep industry experience, strong customer relationships and innovative technologies to expand our business in both developed and emerging markets.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, the Company changed the name of its North America Installation & Services and Rest of World Installation & Services segments to North America Integrated Solutions & Services and Rest of World Integrated Solutions & Services, respectively. The segment reporting structure is consistent with how management reviews the businesses, makes investing and resource decisions and assesses operating performance. The name changes better reflect the Company's focus on providing technology solutions that encompass a mix of products, services and consultation that is tailored to the unique needs of each customer. No changes were made to the current segment structure or underlying financial data that comprise each segment as a result of the name changes and there was no impact to previously disclosed segment information.

We operate and report financial and operating information in the following three operating segments:

•North America Integrated Solutions & Services ("NA Integrated Solutions & Services")designs, sells, installs, services and monitors integrated electronic security systems and integrated fire detection and suppression systems for commercial, industrial, retail, small business, institutional and governmental customers in North America.

•Rest of World ("ROW") Integrated Solutions & Services ("ROW Integrated Solutions & Services")designs, sells, installs, services and monitors integrated electronic security systems and integrated fire detection and suppression systems for commercial, industrial, retail, residential, small business, institutional and governmental customers in the ROW regions.

•Global Productsdesigns, manufactures and sells fire protection, security and life safety products, including intrusion security, anti-theft devices, breathing apparatus and access control and video management systems, for commercial, industrial, retail, residential, small business, institutional and governmental customers worldwide, including products installed and serviced by our NA and ROW Integrated Solutions & Services segments.

We also provide general corporate services to our segments and these costs are reported as Corporate and Other.

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.  Specifically, the Company has reclassified the operations of several businesses in the ROW Integrated Solutions & Services segment to (Loss) income from discontinued operations within the Consolidated Statements of Operations and the assets and liabilities as held for sale within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as they satisfied the criteria to be presented as discontinued operations.  See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Net revenue by segment for2015is as follows ($ in millions):

NetRevenuePercent ofTotalNetRevenueKey BrandsNA Integrated Solutions & Services$3,87939%Tyco Fire & Security, Tyco Integrated Security, SimplexGrinnell, SensormaticROW Integrated Solutions & Services3,43235%Tyco Fire & Security, Wormald, Sensormatic, ADTGlobal Products2,59126%Tyco, Simplex, Ansul, DSC, Scott, American Dynamics, Software House, Visonic, Chemguard, Exacq$9,902100%

Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report to2015,2014and2013are to Tyco's fiscal years endedSeptember 25, 2015,September 26, 2014andSeptember 27, 2013, respectively. The Company has a 52 or 53-week fiscal year









that ends on the last Friday in September. Fiscal2015,2014, and2013were 52-week years. Fiscal 2016 will be a 53-week year which will end on September 30, 2016.

For a detailed discussion of revenue, operating income and total assets by segment for fiscal years2015,2014and2013see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



History and Development

Tyco International plc

Tyco International plc is a Company organized under the laws of Ireland. The Company was created as a result of the July 1997 acquisition of Tyco International Ltd., a Massachusetts corporation, by ADT Limited, a public company organized under the laws of Bermuda, at which time ADT Limited changed its name to Tyco International Ltd. On November 17, 2014, the Company completed its change of jurisdiction of incorporation from Switzerland to Ireland by merging with its subsidiary, Tyco International plc, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of Ireland.

Effective September 28, 2012, the Company completed the spin-offs of The ADT Corporation ("ADT") and Pentair Ltd. (formerly known as Tyco Flow Control International Ltd. ("Tyco Flow Control")), formerly our North American residential security and flow control businesses, respectively, into separate, publicly traded companies in the form of a distribution to Tyco shareholders. Immediately following the spin-off, Pentair, Inc. was merged with a subsidiary of Tyco Flow Control in a tax-free, all-stock merger (the "Merger"), with Pentair Ltd. ("Pentair") succeeding Pentair Inc. as an independent publicly traded company. The distributions, the Merger and related transactions are collectively referred to herein as the "2012 Separation".

Effective June 29, 2007, the Company completed the spin-offs of Covidien (subsequently acquired by Medtronic plc) and TE Connectivity, formerly our Healthcare and Electronics businesses of Tyco, respectively, into separate, public traded companies (the "2007 Separation") in the form of a tax-free distribution to Tyco shareholders.

Tyco's registered and principal office is located at Unit 1202 Building 1000 City Gate, Mahon, Cork Ireland.  Its management office in the United States is located at 9 Roszel Road, Princeton, New Jersey 08540.



Segments

Each of our three segments serves a highly diverse customer base and none is dependent upon a single customer or group of customers. For fiscal year2015, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues, and approximately 44% of our revenues were derived from customers outside of North America.

Our end-use customers, to whom we may sell directly or through wholesalers, distributors, commercial builders or contractors, can generally be grouped in the following categories:

•Commercial customers, including residential and commercial property developers, financial institutions, food service businesses and commercial enterprises;

•Industrial customers, including companies in the oil and gas, power generation, mining, petrochemical and other industries;

•Retail and small business customers, including international, regional and local consumer outlets;

•Institutional customers, including a broad range of healthcare facilities, academic institutions, museums and foundations;

•Governmental customers, including federal, state and local governments, defense installations, mass transportation networks, public utilities and other government-affiliated entities and applications; and

•Residential customers outside of North America, including owners of single-family homes and local providers of a wide range of goods and services.

As discussed under "Competition" below, the markets in which we compete are generally highly fragmented. We therefore compete with many other businesses in markets throughout the world, including other large global businesses, significant regional businesses and many smaller local businesses.













Integrated Solutions & Services

NA Integrated Solutions & Services and ROW Integrated Solutions & Services (collectively, "Integrated Solutions & Services") design, sell, install, service and monitor electronic security and fire detection and suppression systems for retail, small business, commercial, industrial, governmental and institutional customers around the world. Additionally, ROW Integrated Solutions & Services has the right to design, sell, install, service and monitor security systems for residential customers under the ADT brand name in jurisdictions other than the U.S., Canada and Korea.

Security Services

Our Integrated Solutions & Services segments design, sell, install and service security systems to detect intrusion, control access and react to movement, fire, smoke, flooding, environmental conditions, industrial processes and other hazards. These electronic security systems include detection devices that are usually connected to a monitoring center that receives and records alarm signals where security monitoring specialists verify alarm conditions and initiate a range of response scenarios. For most systems, control panels identify the nature of the alarm and the areas where a sensor was triggered. Our other security solutions include access control systems for sensitive areas such as government facilities and banks; video surveillance systems designed to deter theft and fraud and help protect employees and customers; and asset protection and security management systems designed to monitor and protect physical assets as well as proprietary electronic data. Our offerings also include anti-theft systems utilizing acousto-magnetic and radio frequency identification tags and labels in the retail industry as well as store performance solutions to enhance retailer performance. Many of the world's leading retailers use our

Sensormatic

anti-theft systems to help protect against shoplifting and employee theft. Many of the products that we install for our Integrated Solutions & Services security customers are designed and manufactured by our Global Products segment. Additionally, our deep experience in designing, integrating, deploying and maintaining large-scale security systems—including, for example, centrally managed security systems that span large commercial and institutional campuses—allows us to install and/or service products manufactured by third parties.

Purchasers of our intrusion systems typically contract for ongoing security system monitoring and maintenance at the time of initial equipment installation. These contracts are generally for a term of one to three years. Systems installed at customers' premises may be owned by us or by our customers. Monitoring center personnel may respond to alarms by relaying appropriate information to local fire or police departments, notifying the customer or taking other appropriate action. In certain markets, we directly provide the alarm response services with highly trained and professionally equipped employees. In some instances, alarm systems are connected directly to local fire or police departments.

Our ROW Integrated Solutions & Services segment is a leading provider of monitored residential and small business security systems. In addition to traditional burglar alarm and fire detection systems, installation and monitoring services, ROW Integrated Solutions & Services provides patrol and response services in select geographies, including South Africa. Our ROW Integrated Solutions & Services segment continues to expand its offering of value-added residential services worldwide, such as an interactive services platform. The interactive services platform allows for remote management of the home security system, as well as lifestyle applications, which currently include remote video, lighting control, and energy management.

Our customers are often prompted to purchase security systems by their insurance carriers, which may offer lower insurance premium rates if a security system is installed or require that a system be installed as a condition of coverage.

Fire Protection Services









Customers

Our Integrated Solutions & Services customers range from Fortune 500 companies with diverse worldwide operations who look to us to provide integrated, global solutions for their fire and security needs, to single location commercial customers and individual homeowners. Our Integrated Solutions & Services customer relationships generally are in the market for new construction or retrofit projects, which represented47%of Integrated Solutions & Services fiscal2015net revenue, and the market for aftermarket products and services, which accounted for the remaining53%of Integrated Solutions & Services fiscal2015net revenue. New construction projects are inherently long-lead in nature and we strive to become involved in the planning process for these projects as early as possible. We believe that by actively participating in the preliminary design stages of a new construction project and by offering our design services that combine our global expertise and knowledge of local codes and standards, we can increase our value to customers relative to many smaller local and regional competitors. With respect to fire detection and suppression installations, we prefer to become involved at the time an architectural or engineering design firm is selected. With respect to security system design and installation, we generally become involved in the later stages of a construction project or as tenants take occupancy.

Our relationships with customers in the aftermarket may include any combination of alarm monitoring, fire and security maintenance and or testing and inspection services. We also provide aftermarket services to many customers whose fire and security systems were manufactured or installed by third parties.



Global Products

Our Global Products segment designs, manufactures and sells fire protection, security and life safety products, including intrusion security, anti-theft devices, breathing apparatus, and access control and video management systems.

Fire Protection Products

Fire Protection Products designs, manufactures, distributes and sells fire alarm and fire detection systems, automatic fire sprinkler systems and special hazard suppression systems, including many of the fire protection products that our Integrated Solutions & Services segments install and service. Fire Protection Products also manufactures and sells grooved products for the rapid joining of piping in both the fire and non-fire markets. Fire Protection Products are marketed under various leading trade names, includingSimplex, Wormald, Ansul and Tycoand include fire alarm control panels, advanced fire alarm monitoring systems, smoke, heat and carbon monoxide detectors and voice evacuation systems. Fire Protection Products also offers a wide range of water-based sprinkler systems and custom designed special hazard suppression systems, which incorporate specialized extinguishing agents such as foams, dry chemicals and gases. These systems are often especially suited to fire suppression in industrial and commercial applications, including oil and gas, power generation, mining, petrochemical, manufacturing, transportation, data processing, telecommunications, commercial food preparation and marine applications.

Fire Protection Products' systems often are purchased or specified by facility owners through general and subcontractors in the fire protection field. In recent years, retrofitting of existing buildings has increased as a result of legislation mandating the installation of fire detection and fire suppression systems, especially in hotels, restaurants, healthcare facilities and educational establishments. The 2009 through 2015 editions of the International Residential Code, developed by the International Code Council, a non-profit association that develops model codes that are the predominant building and fire safety regulations followed by state and local jurisdictions in the United States, continue to require sprinkler systems in new one and two-family homes and townhouses since January 2011. This national code is not binding on state and local jurisdictions and must be adopted locally before it becomes mandatory for new homes being built in these areas. Fire Protection Products continues to advocate for the adoption of these requirements to reduce the future loss of life due to residential fires. The timing and extent of adoption, if at all, will vary by jurisdiction. However, we believe that this development may offer opportunities to expand our residential fire suppression business in the United States.

Security Products

Security Products designs and manufactures a wide array of electronic security products, including integrated video surveillance and access control systems to enable businesses to manage their security and enhance business performance. Our global access control solutions include integrated security management systems for enterprise applications, access control solutions applications, alarm management panels, door controllers, readers, keypads and cards. Our global video system solutions include digital video management systems, matrix switchers and controllers, digital multiplexers, programmable cameras, monitors and liquid crystal interactive displays. Our security products for homes and businesses range from basic burglar alarms to comprehensive interactive security systems including alarm control panels, keypads, sensors and central station receiving equipment used in security monitoring centers. Our offerings also include anti-theft systems utilizing acousto magnetic and radio frequency identification tags and labels in the retail industry. Our security products are marketed under various leading trade names, includingSoftware House, DSC, American Dynamics, Sensormatic, Visonic and Exacq. Many of the world's leading retailers use ourSensormaticanti-theft systems to help protect against shoplifting and employee theft.









Security Products manufactures many of the security products that our Integrated Solutions & Services business installs and services.

Life Safety Products

Life Safety Products manufactures life safety products, including self-contained breathing apparatus designed for firefighter, industrial and military use, supplied air respirators, air-purifying respirators, thermal imaging cameras, gas detection equipment, gas masks and personal protection equipment. The Life Safety Products business operates under various leading trade names, includingScott SafetyandProtector. Our breathing apparatus are used by the military forces of several countries and many U.S. firefighters rely on theScott Air-Pakbrand of self-contained breathing apparatus.

Customers

Global Products sells products through our Integrated Solutions & Service segments and indirect distribution channels around the world. Some of Global Products' channel business partners act as dealers selling to smaller fire and security contractors that install fire detection and suppression, security and theft protection systems, whereas others act as integrators that install the products themselves. Builders, contractors and developers are customers for our sprinkler products. End customers for our breathing apparatus and related products include fire departments, municipal and state governments and military forces as well as major companies in the industrial sector.



Competition

The markets that we serve are generally highly competitive and fragmented with a small number of large, global firms and thousands of smaller regional and local companies. Competition is based on price, specialized product capacity, breadth of product line, training, support and delivery, with the relative importance of these factors varying depending on the project complexity, product line, the local market and other factors. Rather than compete primarily on price, we emphasize the quality of our products and services, the reputation of our brands and our knowledge of customers' fire and security needs. Among large industrial, commercial, governmental and institutional customers, we believe that our comprehensive global coverage and product and service offerings provide a competitive advantage. We also believe that our systems integration capabilities, which allow us to offer global solutions to customers that fully integrate our security and/or fire offerings into existing information technology networks, business operations and management tools, and process automation and control systems, set us apart from all but a small number of other large, global competitors.

Competitive dynamics in the fire and security industry generally result in more direct competition and lower margins for installation projects compared to aftermarket products and services. We generally face the greatest competitive pricing pressure for the installation of products that have become more commoditized over time, including standard commercial sprinkler systems and closed-circuit television systems.



Backlog

See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information relating to our backlog.



Intellectual Property

Patents, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third-party proprietary rights, including trademarks, patents and patent applications, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities and misappropriation of our proprietary rights, and monitor the intellectual property claims of others.

We own a portfolio of patents that principally relates to: electronic security products and systems for intrusion detection, access control, electronic identification tags & video surveillance; fire protection products and systems, including fire detection and fire suppression with chemical, gas, foam and water agents; personal protective products and systems for fire and other hazards. We also own a portfolio of trademarks and are a licensee of various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks.

While we consider our patents to be valuable assets that help prevent or delay the commoditization of our products and thus extend their life cycles, we do not believe that our overall operations are dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. We share the ADT® trademark with ADT and operate under a brand governance agreement between the two companies.











Research and Development

We are engaged in research and development in an effort to introduce new products, to enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, safety and reliability of our existing products and to expand the applications for which the uses of our products are appropriate. For example, in order to position ourselves to participate in and lead the development of residential interactive platforms, enterprise-wide integrated access control platforms and transition IP video platforms, we have made significant investments in our security products portfolio. In addition, we continually evaluate developing technologies in areas that we believe will enhance our business for possible investment. Our research and development expense was$212 millionin2015, $193 millionin2014and $172 millionin2013related to new product development.



Raw and Other Purchased Materials

We are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including fuel for our vehicle fleet. We purchase materials from a large number of independent sources around the world and have experienced no shortages that have had a material adverse effect on our businesses. We enter into long-term supply contracts, using fixed or variable pricing to manage our exposure to potential supply disruptions. Significant changes in certain raw material, including steel, brass and certain flurochemicals used in our fire suppression agents, may have an adverse impact on costs and operating margins.



Governmental Regulation and Supervision

Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, both within and outside the United States, in areas such as: consumer protection, government contracts, international trade, environmental protection, labor and employment, tax, licensing and others. For example, most U.S. states and non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate have licensing laws directed specifically toward the alarm and fire suppression industries. Our security businesses currently rely extensively upon the use of wireline and wireless telephone service to communicate signals. Wireline and wireless telephone companies in the United States are regulated by the federal and state governments. In addition, government regulation of fire safety codes can impact our fire businesses. These and other laws and regulations impact the manner in which we conduct our business, and changes in legislation or government policies can affect our worldwide operations, both favorably and unfavorably. For a more detailed description of the various laws and regulations that affect our business, see Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Matters.



Environmental Matters

We are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. As ofSeptember 25, 2015, we concluded that it was probable that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately$23 millionto$72 million. As ofSeptember 25, 2015, Tyco concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately$33 million, of which$11 millionis included in Accrued and other current liabilities and$22 millionis included in Other liabilities in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet.

The majority of the liabilities described above relate to ongoing remediation efforts at a facility in the Company's Global Products segment located in Marinette, Wisconsin, which the Company acquired in 1990 in connection with its acquisition of, among other things, the Ansul product line. Prior to Tyco's acquisition, Ansul manufactured arsenic-based agricultural herbicides at the Marinette facility, which resulted in significant arsenic contamination of soil and groundwater on the Marinette site and in parts of the adjoining Menominee River. Ansul has been engaged in ongoing remediation efforts at the Marinette site since 1990, and in February 2009 entered into an Administrative Consent Order (the "Consent Order") with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to address the presence of arsenic at the Marinette site. Under this agreement, Ansul's principal obligations are to contain the arsenic contamination on the site, pump and treat on-site groundwater, dredge, treat and properly dispose of contaminated sediments in the adjoining river areas, and monitor contamination levels on an ongoing basis. Activities completed under the Consent Order since 2009 include the installation of a subsurface barrier wall around the facility to contain contaminated groundwater, the installation of a groundwater extraction and treatment system and the dredging and offsite disposal of treated river sediment.  As of

September 25, 2015

, the Company concluded that its remaining remediation and monitoring costs related to the Marinette facility were in the range of approximately

$14 million

to

$46 million

. The Company's best estimate within that range is approximately

$23 million

, of which

$9 million

is included in Accrued and other current liabilities and

$14 million

is included in Other liabilities in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet. During the years ended

September 25, 2015

,

September 26, 2014

, and

September 27, 2013

, the Company recorded charges of

nil

,

nil

, and

$100 million

, respectively, in Selling, general and administrative expenses within the Consolidated Statement of Operations.  Although the Company has recorded its best estimate of the costs that it will incur to remediate and monitor the arsenic contamination at the Marinette facility, it is possible that technological, regulatory or enforcement developments, the results of









environmental studies or other factors could change the Company's expectations with respect to future charges and cash outlays, and such changes could be material to the Company's future results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.



Employees

As of September 25, 2015, we employed approximately 57,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 19,000 were employed in the United States and approximately 38,000 were outside the United States. Approximately 9,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the labor unions are generally good.



Available Information

Tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Investors may read and copy any document that Tyco files, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site athttp://www.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access Tyco's SEC filings.

Our Internet website iswww.tyco.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, reports filed pursuant to Section 16 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. In addition, we have posted the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation and Human Resources Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee, as well as our Board Governance Principles and Guide to Ethical Conduct, on our website under the "About" heading. The annual report to shareholders, charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. We will also provide a copy of these documents free of charge to shareholders upon request.



