Item 1.    Business

General

Tyco International Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "we," the "Company" or "Tyco") is a diversified, global company that provides
products and services to customers in various countries throughout the world. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, valves
and controls and other industrial products. We operate and report financial and operating information in the following five segments:

•ADT Worldwidedesigns, sells, installs, services and monitors electronic
security systems for residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. In addition, ADT Worldwide manufactures certain products related to retailer anti-theft systems.•Flow Controldesigns, manufactures, sells and services valves, pipes,
fittings, valve automation and heat tracing products for general process, energy and mining markets as well as the water and wastewater markets.•Fire Protection Servicesdesigns, sells, installs and services fire
detection and fire suppression systems for commercial, industrial and governmental customers.•Electrical and Metal Productsdesigns, manufactures and sells galvanized
steel tubing, armored wire and cable and other metal products for non-residential construction, electrical, fire and safety and mechanical customers.•Safety Productsdesigns, manufactures and sells fire suppression,
electronic security and life safety products, including fire sprinklers, breathing apparatus, intrusion, security, access control and video management systems. In addition, Safety Products
manufactures products installed and serviced by ADT Worldwide and Fire Protection Services.

We
also provide general corporate services to our segments and these costs are reported as Corporate and Other.

Net
revenue by segment for 2010 is as follows ($ in billions):

Net RevenuePercent ofTotalNetRevenueKey BrandsADT Worldwide$7.444%ADT, SensormaticFlow Control3.420Keystone, VanessaFire Protection Services3.319SimplexGrinnell, WormaldElectrical and Metal Products1.48Allied Tube & Conduit, AFC Cable SystemsSafety Products1.59Scott, Protector, Ansul, Grinnell, Software House, American Dynamics, DSC and Bentel$17.0100%

During
the first quarter of 2011, the Company will realign our Safety Products segment between our ADT Worldwide and Fire Protection segments. Our existing ADT Worldwide and Fire
Protection segments will create two new businesses: Tyco Security Solutions and Tyco Fire Protection.

Tyco
Security Solutions will consist of our ADT Worldwide segment as well as manufacturing security products including intrusion, security, access control and video management systems
previously









manufactured
by our Safety Products segment. Tyco Fire Protection will consist of our Fire Protection segment as well as a number of businesses in our Safety Products segment including our fire
suppression and building products and life safety products businesses.

As
a result of this realignment, as well as the planned sale of a 51% interest of our Electrical and Metal Products business (see Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements), we will have three core businesses: Tyco Security Solutions, Tyco Fire Protection and Flow Control.

Unless
otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report to 2010, 2009 and 2008 are to Tyco's fiscal years ended September 24, 2010, September 25, 2009 and
September 26, 2008, respectively.

History and Development

Tyco International Ltd.

Tyco International Ltd. is a Company organized under the laws of Switzerland. The Company was created as a result of the
July 1997 acquisition of Tyco International Ltd., a Massachusetts corporation, by ADT Limited, a public company organized under the laws of Bermuda, at which time ADT Limited changed its name
to Tyco International Ltd. Effective March 17, 2009, following shareholder and Board of Director approval on March 12, 2009, the Company ceased to exist as a Bermuda corporation and
continued its existence as a Swiss corporation under articles 620 et seq. of the Swiss Code of Obligations (the "Change of Domicile").

Effective
June 29, 2007, Tyco International Ltd. completed the spin-offs of Covidien and Tyco Electronics, formerly our Healthcare and Electronics businesses, respectively, into
separate, publicly traded companies (the "Separation") in the form of a distribution to Tyco shareholders.

During
the third quarter of 2010, we announced our intention to pursue a tax-free spin-off of our Electrical and Metal Products business. On November 9, 2010, we announced an
agreement to sell a 51% interest in our Electrical and Metal Products business. In connection with this announcement, we no longer plan to pursue the tax-free spin-off of our
Electrical and Metal Products business as proposed on April 27, 2010. See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

On
May 14, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Brink's Home Security Holdings, Inc. ("BHS" or "Broadview Security") in a cash-and-stock transaction valued at
approximately $2.0 billion, with $585 million in cash being used to fund the acquisition. Broadview Security is being integrated into the Company's ADT Worldwide segment.

Tyco's
registered and principal office is located at Freier Platz 10, CH-8200 Schaffhausen, Switzerland. Its management office in the United States is located at 9 Roszel Road,
Princeton, New Jersey 08540.

Segments

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation. During the third quarter of 2010,
our Board of Directors approved a plan to sell our water business in Europe, which is part of our Flow Control segment. The business met the held for sale criteria and discontinued operations criteria
and has been included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, during fiscal 2010 we aligned certain business operations
resulting in prior period segment amounts being recast. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

ADT Worldwide

Our ADT Worldwide segment designs, sells, installs, services and monitors electronic security systems for residential, commercial,
educational, governmental and industrial customers around the











world.
We are one of the world's largest providers of electronic security systems and services. We have a significant market presence in North and South America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.
With 2010 net revenue of $7.4 billion, our ADT Worldwide segment comprises 44% of our consolidated net
revenue. In 2009 and 2008, net revenue totaled $7.1 billion, or 42%, of our consolidated net revenue and $7.8 billion, or 39%, of our consolidated net revenue, respectively.

On
May 14, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Brink's Home Security Holdings, Inc. ("BHS" or "Broadview Security") in a cash-and-stock transaction valued at
approximately $2.0 billion, with $585 million in cash being used to fund the acquisition. Broadview Security is being integrated into the Company's ADT Worldwide segment. Broadview Security's
core business is to provide security alarm monitoring services for residential and commercial properties in North America. It has a large residential recurring customer base, which has enhanced ADT's
presence in the North American residential security business. Broadview Security is also a leader in technologies and services which are expected to enhance ADT Worldwide's service offerings to its
customers. In connection with the integration of Broadview Security into the ADT Worldwide segment, the Broadview Security brand has been discontinued. We expect to realize cost savings and other
synergies through operational efficiencies including consolidation of both marketing and general and administrative functions. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Services and Products

ADT Worldwide supplies and installs electronic security systems to the residential, commercial, educational, governmental and
industrial markets. It also provides electronic security services, including monitoring of burglar alarms, fire alarms and other life safety conditions as well as maintenance of electronic security
systems. A significant portion of the components used in our electronic security systems are manufactured by our Safety Products segment.

Our
electronic security systems business involves the installation and use of security systems designed to detect intrusion, control access and react to movement, fire, smoke, flooding,
environmental conditions, industrial processes and other hazards. These electronic security systems include detection devices that are usually connected to a monitoring center that receives and
records alarm signals where skilled security monitoring specialists verify alarm conditions and initiate a range of response scenarios. For most systems, control panels identify the nature of the
alarm and the areas where a sensor was triggered. Our other solutions include: access control systems for sensitive areas such as government facilities and banks; video surveillance systems designed
to deter theft and fraud and help protect employees and customers; and asset protection and security management systems designed to monitor and protect physical assets as well as proprietary
electronic data. Our offerings also include anti-theft systems utilizing acousto magnetic and radio frequency identification ("RFID") tags and labels in the retail industry. Many of the world's
leading retailers use ourSensormaticanti-theft systems to help protect against shoplifting and employee theft.

Purchasers
of our intrusion systems typically contract for ongoing security system monitoring and maintenance at the time of initial equipment installation. Systems installed at
customers' premises may be either owned by ADT Worldwide or by our customers. Monitoring center personnel may respond to alarms by relaying appropriate information to local fire or police departments,
notifying the customer
or taking other appropriate action. In certain markets, ADT Worldwide directly provides the alarm response services with highly trained and professionally equipped employees. In some instances, alarm
systems are connected directly to local fire or police departments.

Many
of our residential customers may purchase security systems as a result of prompting by their insurance carriers, which may offer lower insurance premium rates if a security system
is installed or require that a system be installed as a condition of coverage.









Customers

ADT Worldwide sells to residential, commercial, educational, governmental and industrial customers. Our residential customers typically
include owners of single-family homes or renters in multi-family apartment complexes. Our commercial customers include, among others, retail businesses, financial institutions, commercial/industrial
facilities and health care facilities. Our government customers include federal, state and local governments, defense installations, schools and mass transportation providers. In addition to
advertising, direct mailings and the internet, we market our electronic security systems and services to these customers through a direct sales force and, with respect to certain residential
customers, through an authorized dealer network. A separate sales force services large commercial and governmental customers and focuses on key vertical markets such as retail and banking.

Competition

The electronic security services business is highly competitive and fragmented with a number of major firms and thousands of smaller
regional and local companies. Competition is based primarily on price in relation to quality of service. Rather than compete purely on price, we emphasize the quality of our electronic security
service, the reputation of our brands and our knowledge of our customers' security needs. For large commercial, educational, governmental and industrial customers the comprehensive national and/or
global coverage offered by ADT Worldwide can also provide a competitive advantage. We also have significantly expanded our systems integration capabilities, which allow ADT Worldwide to offer
comprehensive solutions to customers that fully integrate security and fire offerings into comprehensive IT networks, business operations and management tools, and process automation and control
systems.

Flow Control

Our Flow Control segment designs, manufactures, sells and services valves, pipes, fittings, valve automation and heat tracing products
for general process, energy and mining markets as well as the water and wastewater market. We believe we are the world's leading manufacturer of flow control products. With 2010 net revenue of
$3.4 billion, our Flow Control segment comprises 20% of our consolidated net revenue. In 2009 and 2008, net revenue totaled $3.5 billion, or 21%, of our consolidated net revenue and $3.9
billion, or 20%, of our consolidated net revenue, respectively. Flow Control is a global business with 30% of its sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), 29% from the Americas, 26% from the
Pacific region and 15% from Asia. During the third quarter of 2010, our Board of Directors approved a plan to sell our water business in Europe. This business met the held for sale and discontinued
operations criteria and has been included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. The sale of this business closed on September 30, 2010.

Services and Products

Flow Control designs, manufactures and services a wide variety of valves, actuators, controls, pipes, fittings and heat tracing
products. Valve products include a broad range of industrial valves, including on-off valves, safety relief valves and other specialty valves. Actuation products include pneumatic, hydraulic and
electric actuators. Control products include limit switches, solenoid valves, valve positioners, network systems and accessories. For the water market, Flow Control offers a wide variety of pipes and
valves, for water transmission applications. Flow Control is also a global provider of heat tracing services and products. In addition to these core products, Flow Control makes a variety of specialty
products for environmental (emissions monitoring, water flow and quality monitoring, dust filter cleaning systems), instrumentation (manifolds, enclosures, isolation valves) and other applications. We
manufacture these products in facilities located throughout the world.









Flow
Control products are used in many applications including power generation, chemical, petrochemical, oil and gas, wastewater, pulp and paper, commercial irrigation, mining and food
and beverage. Flow Control also provides engineering, design, inspection, maintenance and repair services for its valves and related products.

Flow
Control products are sold under many trade names, includingAnderson Greenwood, Biffi, Crosby, Keystone, KTM, Raychem, Sempell,
TracerandVanessa.Flow Control sells its services and products in most geographic regions directly through its internal sales
force and in some cases through a network of independent distributors and manufacturers' representatives.

Customers

Flow Control's customers include businesses engaged in a wide range of industries, including power generation, chemical and
petrochemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas exploration, production and refining, mining, water, food and beverage, marine and shipbuilding and other process industries. Customers include end users as
well as engineering, procurement and construction companies, contractors, original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") and distributors. Flow Control operates an extensive network of sales, service and
distribution centers to serve a wide range of global customers.

Competition

The flow control industry is highly fragmented, consisting of many local and regional companies and a few global competitors. We
compete against a number of international, national and local manufacturers of industrial valves as well as against specialized manufacturers on the basis of product capability, product quality,
breadth of product line, delivery and price. Our major competitors vary by region.

Fire Protection Services

Our Fire Protection Services segment designs, sells, installs and services fire detection and fire suppression systems for commercial
enterprises, governmental entities, airports, commercial shipping companies, transportation systems, healthcare owners, petrochemical facilities and homeowners. We believe we are one of the largest
providers of these systems and services. With 2010 net revenue of $3.3 billion, our Fire Protection Services segment comprises 19% of our consolidated net revenue. In 2009 and 2008, net revenue
totaled $3.4 billion, or 20%, of our consolidated net revenue and $3.8 billion, or 19%, of our consolidated net revenue, respectively.

Services and Products

Fire Protection Services designs, sells, installs and services fire alarm and fire detection systems, automatic fire sprinkler systems
and special hazard suppression systems. Fire Protection Services operates under various leading trade names, includingSimplexGrinnell, Wormald, Mather & Platt, Dong Bang,
ZettlerandTyco.A significant portion of the components used in our fire detection and fire suppression systems are
manufactured by our Safety Products segment.

Fire
Protection Services offers a wide range of fire alarm and fire detection systems. These alarm and detection systems include fire alarm control panels, advanced fire alarm monitoring
systems, smoke, heat and carbon monoxide detectors, voice evacuation systems and emergency lighting systems. Fire Protection Services also offers a wide range of fire suppression systems, the majority
of which are water-based sprinkler systems. In addition, Fire Protection Services provides custom designed special hazard suppression systems, which incorporate specialized extinguishing agents such
as foams, dry chemicals and gases, in addition to spill control products designed to absorb, neutralize and solidify spills of hazardous materials. These systems are often especially suited to fire
suppression in certain











manufacturing,
power generation, petrochemical, offshore oil exploration, transportation, data processing, telecommunications, commercial food preparation, mining and marine applications.

Fire
Protection Services installs fire detection and fire suppression systems in both new and existing buildings. These systems typically are purchased by owners, construction engineers
and electrical contractors as well as mechanical or general contractors. In recent years, retrofitting of existing buildings has grown as a result of legislation mandating the installation of fire
detection and fire suppression systems, especially in hotels, healthcare facilities and educational establishments. In September 2008, the International Residential Code Council, a non-profit
association that develops model codes that are the predominant building and fire safety regulations used by states and jurisdictions in the United States, adopted a proposal advanced by firefighters
and other life-safety advocates to require sprinkler systems in new one and two family dwellings effective in January 2011. This national code must be adopted by states and jurisdictions in
order for it to be applied to new homes being built in that area. The timing of adoption will vary by state / district. Fire Protection Services also continues to focus on system maintenance and
inspection, which have become increasingly significant parts of its business.

Customers

Fire Protection Services' customers include commercial enterprises, governmental entities, airports, commercial shipping companies,
transportation systems, healthcare facility owners, petrochemical facilities and homeowners. We market our fire detection and fire suppression systems to the majority of these customers through a
direct sales force.

Competition

Competition in the fire detection and fire suppression business varies by region. In North America, we compete with hundreds of smaller
contractors on a regional or local basis for the installation of fire detection and fire suppression systems. In Europe, we compete with many regional or local contractors on a country-by-country
basis. In Asia, Australia and New Zealand, we compete with a few large fire detection and fire suppression contractors, as well as with many smaller regional and local companies. We compete for fire
detection and fire suppression systems contracts primarily on the basis of service, quality and price.

Electrical and Metal Products

During the third quarter of 2010, we announced our intention to pursue a tax-free spin-off of our Electrical and Metal Products
business. On November 9, 2010, we announced an agreement to sell a 51% interest in our Electrical and Metal Products business. In connection with this announcement, we no longer plan to pursue
the tax-free spin-off of our Electrical and Metal Products business as proposed on April 27, 2010. See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our
Electrical and Metal Products segment designs, manufactures and sells galvanized steel tubing and pipe products, pre-wired armored electrical cables, electrical support systems and
metal framing systems for trade contractors in the construction and modernization of non-residential structures such as commercial office buildings, institutional facilities, manufacturing plants and
warehouses, shopping centers and multi-family dwellings. In North America, our Allied Tube & Conduit business is a leading manufacturer of electrical steel conduit and our AFC Cable Systems business
is a leading manufacturer of steel and aluminum pre-wired electrical cable. Electrical and Metal Products also manufactures and sells cable tray systems, steel tubes, tiles, plates and other specialty
formed steel products in South America, Asia Pacific and EMEA. With 2010 net revenue of $1.4 billion, our Electrical and Metal Products segment comprises 8% of our consolidated net revenue. In
2009 and 2008, net revenue











totaled
$1.4 billion, or 8%, of our consolidated net revenue and $2.3 billion, or 12%, of our consolidated net revenue, respectively.

The
market prices of key raw materials such as steel and copper have a significant impact on the segment's operating results. In particular, the difference between amounts paid for these
raw materials and the selling price charged to customers for the range of value-add products manufactured from these raw materials significantly impacts operating results. As a result, this segment
maintains diligent focus on raw material purchases, manufacturing processes, pricing and sales strategies.

Services and Products

Electrical and Metal Products designs and manufactures galvanized steel tubing and pipe products that include electrical conduit, fire
sprinkler pipe, light gauge steel tube and fence pipe. These steel tube and pipe products are sold under the brand namesAllied Tube & ConduitandTectron Tube. In addition, we manufacture various electrical support system products including strut channel, metal framing, cable tray systems and
associated fittings, sold under brand namesUnistrut,PowerStrut,TJ
CopeandAcroba.

Electrical
and Metal Products also designs and manufactures pre-wired armored and metal-clad electrical cable, flexible and non-metallic conduit, PVC and HDPE cable protection products,
as well as other fire stop products. These offerings are sold under the brand namesAFC Cable Systems, Eastern Wire and ConduitandKaf-Tech.

Customers

The majority of the products manufactured by Electrical and Metal Products are used by trade contractors in the construction and
modernization of non-residential structures such as commercial office buildings, institutional facilities, manufacturing plants and warehouses, shopping centers and multi-family dwellings. Nearly 95%
of these products are sold through wholesale distribution to trade contractors; the remaining 5% are sold to smaller contractors and homeowners through big-box home improvement retailers.
Distribution-based sales account for 75% of the total revenue for the Electrical and Metal Products segment.

The
other major customer segment, representing approximately 25% of revenue, is the OEM market. The steel tubes supplied by Electrical and Metal Products are ultimately used as a
component for OEM products in commercial or industrial end markets. Steel tubular products are sold direct to OEMs or through metals distributors.

Competition

The market for electrical conduit and wiring and supports, fire protection and security products and steel tubing includes a broad
range of competitors. Principal competitors range from national manufacturers to smaller regional players. Customers purchase from Electrical and Metal Products because of the product availability,
breadth of product line and the premium quality of products.

Safety Products

Our Safety Products segment designs, manufactures and sells fire suppression, electronic security and life safety products, including
fire suppression products, breathing apparatus, intrusion, security, access control and video management systems. In addition, Safety Products manufactures products installed and serviced by ADT
Worldwide and Fire Protection Services. With 2010 net revenue of $1.5 billion, our Safety Products segment comprises 9% of our consolidated net revenue. In 2009 and 2008, net revenue totaled
$1.5 billion, or 9%, of our consolidated net revenue and $1.9 billion, or 10%, of our consolidated net revenue, respectively.









Services and Products

Safety Products manufactures fire suppression products, including water sprinkler systems, portable fire extinguishers, commercial
suppression systems for special hazards including gas, powder and foam agents, hose products and fire-fighting foam and related delivery devices. Safety Products also manufactures life safety
products, including self-contained breathing apparatus designed for firefighter, industrial and military use, supplied air respirators, air-purifying respirators, thermal imaging cameras, gas
detection equipment and gas masks. Safety Products' breathing apparatus are used by the military forces of several countries and many U.S. firefighters rely on theScott
Air-Pakbrand of self-contained breathing apparatus.

Safety
Products designs and manufactures electronic security products, including integrated video surveillance and access control systems to enable businesses to manage their security
and enhance business performance. Its global access control solutions include: integrated security management systems for enterprise applications, access control solutions applications, alarm
management panels, door controllers, readers, keypads and cards. Its global video system solutions include: digital video management systems, matrix switchers and controllers, digital multiplexers,
programmable cameras, monitors and liquid crystal displays. Its intrusion security products provide advanced security products for homes and businesses ranging from burglar alarms to a full range of
security systems including alarm control panels, keypads, sensors and central station receiving equipment used in security monitoring centers.

Safety
Products also manufactures a number of products for ADT Worldwide and Fire Protection Services for incorporation into their electronic security systems and fire detection and fire
suppression systems. These products include a wide range of our fire detection and fire suppression products, security, video and access control products, electronic article surveillance and intrusion
products.

Our
Safety Products businesses utilize a worldwide network of sales offices and operate globally under various trade names, includingScott, Protector, Ansul,
Grinnell, Tyco, Software House, American Dynamics, DSCandBentel.

Customers

In addition to selling to our ADT Worldwide and Fire Protection Services segments, Safety Products sells its products primarily through
indirect distribution channels around the world. These business partners sell to customers including contractors that install fire suppression, security and theft protection systems. Some of our
partners are integrators and install the products themselves; others act as dealers and sell to smaller fire and security contractors. Our customers for our breathing apparatus include fire
departments, municipal and state governments and military forces as well as major companies in the Industrial sector. Customers for our fire sprinkler products include distributors, commercial
builders and contractors. Residential builders, contractors and developers are emerging customers for our sprinkler products given changing regulatory dynamics.

Competition

Competition for the manufacture and sale of our products is based on specialized product capacity, breadth of product line, price,
training and support and delivery. The principal competitors are specialty products manufacturing companies based in the United States, with other smaller competitors in Europe and Asia.

Backlog

See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information relating to our
backlog.









Intellectual Property

Patents, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets,
manufacturing know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third-party proprietary rights, including
trademarks, patents and patent applications, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities
and misappropriation of our proprietary rights, and monitor the intellectual property claims of others.

We
own a portfolio of patents that principally relates to: electronic security systems; fire protection products and systems, including fire detection and fire suppression with chemical,
gas, foam and water agents, piping, couplings, fittings for fluid systems; personal protective products and systems for fire and other hazards; integrated systems for surveillance and control of
public transportation and other public works; structural and electrical tubing and conduit; building structural members, panels and related fixtures; fire-rated and armored electrical cabling; heat
tracing and floor heating systems; security wire and fencing; and flow control products, including valves, actuators and controllers and airflow control and sensing products. We also own a portfolio
of trademarks and are a licensee of various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of
patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks.

While
we consider our patents to be valuable assets, we do not believe that our overall competitive position is dependent on patent protection or that our overall operations are
dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents.

Research and Development

We are engaged in research and development in an effort to introduce new products, to enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, safety
and reliability of our existing products and to expand the applications for which the uses of our products are appropriate. We continually evaluate developing technologies in areas that we believe
will enhance our business for possible investment. Our research and development expense was $131 million in 2010, $116 million in 2009 and $125 million in 2008.

Raw and Other Purchased Materials

We are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including gasoline. Materials are purchased from a large number of independent
sources around the world. There have been no shortages in materials that have had a material adverse effect on our businesses. We enter into long-term supply contracts, using fixed or variable pricing
to manage our exposure to potential supply disruptions. Significant changes in certain raw material costs have had, and may in the future have, an adverse impact on costs and operating margins. In
particular, the Electrical and Metal Products segment is significantly affected by volatility in the price of steel and copper, with operating margins generally contracting in a declining price
environment and expanding when prices of these commodities are rising.

Governmental Regulation and Supervision

Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, both within and outside the United States, in
areas such as: consumer protection, government contracts, international trade, environmental protection, labor and employment, tax, licensing and others. For example, most U.S. states in which we
operate have licensing laws directed specifically toward the alarm and fire suppression industries. Our ADT Worldwide business currently relies extensively upon











the
use of wireline and wireless telephone service to communicate signals, and wireline and wireless telephone companies in the United States are regulated by the federal and state governments.
Another example is our Flow Control business, which is subject to strict regulations governing the import and export of goods and technologies across international borders, particularly with respect
to "dual use" products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation. In addition, government regulation of fire safety
codes can impact our Fire Protection Services business. These and other laws and regulations impact the manner in which we conduct our business, and changes in legislation or government policies can
affect our worldwide operations, both positively and negatively. For a more detailed description of the various laws and regulations that affect our business, see Item 1A. Risk
Factors—Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Matters and Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other
things, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees.

Certain
environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties
or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims
due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or pursuant to indemnifications provided by us in connection with asset disposals. We have received notification from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and from state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible
remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. We have projects underway at a number of
current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations.

Given
uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods, the ultimate cost of cleanup at
disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict. Based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable
that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $27 million to $85 million. As of September 24, 2010, we concluded that the best estimate within this range is
approximately $34 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $16 million is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In view of our financial position and reserves for environmental matters, we believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

Employees

As of September 24, 2010, we employed approximately 108,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 41,000 are employed in the
United States and 67,000 are outside the United States. Approximately 29,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the
labor unions are generally good.









Available Information

Tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Investors may read
and copy any document that Tyco files, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Investors may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site athttp://www.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy
and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
SEC, from which investors can electronically access Tyco's SEC filings.

Our
Internet website iswww.tyco.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, reports filed pursuant to Section 16 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section
13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a Swiss company,
we prepare Swiss statutory financial statements, including Swiss consolidated financial statements, on an annual basis. A copy of the Swiss statutory financial statements is distributed along with our
annual report to shareholders, and all of the aforementioned reports will be made available to our shareholders upon their request. In addition, we have posted the charters for our Audit Committee,
Compensation and
Human Resources Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee, as well as our Board Governance Principles and Guide to Ethical Conduct, on our website under the heading "Corporate
Citizenship—Governance." The annual report to shareholders, charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. We will also provide a copy of these documents free of
charge to shareholders upon request.

