Item 1.    Business

General

Tyco International Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "we," the "Company" or "Tyco") is a diversified, global company that
provides products and services to customers in various countries throughout the world. Tyco is a leading provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and
services, valves and controls, and other industrial products. We operate and report financial and operating information in the following three segments:

•Tyco Security Solutionsdesigns, sells, installs, services and monitors
electronic security systems for residential, educational, commercial, governmental and industrial customers. In addition, Tyco Security Solutions designs, manufactures and sells security products
including intrusion, access control and video management systems.•Tyco Fire Protectiondesigns, manufactures, sells, installs and services
fire detection and fire suppression systems and building and life safety products for commercial, industrial and governmental customers.•Tyco Flow Controldesigns, manufactures, sells and services valves, pipes,
fittings, automation and controls, valve automation and heat tracing products for general process, energy and mining markets as well as the water and wastewater markets.

We
also provide general corporate services to our segments and these costs are reported as Corporate and Other.

Net
revenue by segment for 2011 is as follows ($ in billions):

NetRevenuePercent ofTotalNetRevenueKey BrandsTyco Security Solutions$8.649%ADT, Sensormatic, Software House, American Dynamics, DSC, BentelTyco Fire Protection4.828%SimplexGrinnell, Wormald, Scott, Dong Bang, Ansul, GrinnellTyco Flow Control3.621%Keystone, VanessaElectrical and Metal Products0.42%Allied Tube & Conduit, AFC Cable Systems$17.4100%

Unless
otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report to 2011, 2010 and 2009 are to Tyco's fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, September 24, 2010 and
September 25, 2009, respectively. The Company has a 52 or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Friday in September. Fiscal 2011 is a 53-week year. Fiscal years 2010
and 2009 were both 52-week years.

History and Development

Tyco International Ltd.

Tyco International Ltd. is a Company organized under the laws of Switzerland. The Company was created as a result of the July
1997 acquisition of Tyco International Ltd., a Massachusetts corporation, by ADT Limited, a public company organized under the laws of Bermuda, at which time ADT Limited changed its name to
Tyco International Ltd. Effective March 17, 2009, following shareholder and Board of Director approval on March 12, 2009, the Company ceased to exist as a Bermuda corporation and











continued
its existence as a Swiss corporation under articles 620 et seq. of the Swiss Code of Obligations (the "Change of Domicile").

Effective
June 29, 2007, Tyco International Ltd. completed the spin-offs of Covidien and TE Connectivity, formerly our Healthcare and Electronics
businesses, respectively, into separate, publicly traded companies (the "2007 Separation") in the form of a distribution to Tyco shareholders.

On
May 14, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Brink's Home Security Holdings, Inc. ("BHS" or "Broadview Security") in a
cash-and-stock transaction valued at approximately $2.0 billion. Broadview Security has been integrated into our Tyco Security Solutions segment. See Note 5 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

On
December 22, 2010, we sold a majority interest in our Electrical and Metal Products business. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

On
September 19, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a plan to separate the Company into three separate, publicly traded companies consisting of the
Company's North American residential security business, its flow control business and its commercial fire and security business (the "2012 Separation"). The 2012 Separation is expected to be completed
by the end
of the third calendar quarter of 2012 through a tax-free pro rata distribution of all of the equity interests in the flow control and North American residential security businesses.

Completion
of the 2012 Separation is subject to certain conditions, including final approval by the Tyco Board of Directors and shareholders, receipt of tax opinions and rulings and the
filing and effectiveness of registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The Separation will also be subject to the completion of any necessary financing. See
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Tyco's
registered and principal office is located at Freier Platz 10, CH-8200 Schaffhausen, Switzerland. Its management office in the United States is located at 9 Roszel
Road, Princeton, New Jersey 08540.

Segments

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.

During
the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we realigned our Safety Products segment between our ADT Worldwide and Fire Protection segments to create two new segments: Tyco Security
Solutions and Tyco Fire Protection. Tyco Security Solutions consists of the former ADT Worldwide segment as well as the portion of the former Safety Products segment that manufactures security
products including intrusion, security, access control and video management systems. Tyco Fire Protection consists of the former Fire Protection Services segment as well as a number of businesses from
the former Safety Products segment including the fire suppression and life safety products business. In addition, various businesses were realigned between Tyco Security Solutions and Tyco Fire
Protection. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

As
discussed above, we sold a majority interest in our Electrical and Metal Products business which contributed $0.4 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.4 billion of
revenue in the years ended September 30, 2011, September 24, 2010 and September 25, 2009, respectively.

On
September 30, 2010, we sold our water business in Europe, which was part of our Tyco Flow Control Segment. The business met the held for sale criteria and discontinued
operations criteria and has been included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.









Tyco Security Solutions

Our Tyco Security Solutions segment designs, sells, installs, services and monitors electronic security systems for residential,
commercial, educational, governmental and industrial customers around the world primarily operating under the ADT brand name. In addition, Tyco Security Solutions designs, manufactures and sells
security products including intrusion, access control and video management systems and is one of the world's largest providers of electronic security systems and services. Tyco Security Solutions has
a significant market presence in North and South America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. With 2011 net revenue of $8.6 billion, our Tyco Security Solutions segment comprises
49% of our consolidated net revenue. In 2010 and 2009, net revenue totaled $7.7 billion, or 45%, of our consolidated net revenue and $7.4 billion, or 44%, of our consolidated net
revenue, respectively.

On
May 14, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Broadview Security in a cash-and-stock transaction valued at approximately
$2.0 billion, with $585 million in cash being used to fund the acquisition. Broadview Security's core business was to provide security alarm monitoring services for residential and
commercial properties in North America, and it has been integrated into our Tyco Security Solutions segment. In connection with the integration, the Broadview Security brand has been discontinued. See
Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Services and Products

Tyco Security Solutions supplies and installs electronic security systems to the residential, commercial, educational, governmental and
industrial markets. It also provides electronic security services, including monitoring of burglar alarms, fire alarms and other life safety conditions as well as maintenance of electronic security
systems.

Our
electronic security systems business involves the installation and use of security systems designed to detect intrusion, control access and react to movement, fire, smoke, flooding,
environmental conditions, industrial processes and other hazards. These electronic security systems include detection devices that are usually connected to a monitoring center that receives and
records alarm signals where skilled
security monitoring specialists verify alarm conditions and initiate a range of response scenarios. For most systems, control panels identify the nature of the alarm and the areas where a sensor was
triggered. Our other solutions include: access control systems for sensitive areas such as government facilities and banks; video surveillance systems designed to deter theft and fraud and help
protect employees and customers; and asset protection and security management systems designed to monitor and protect physical assets as well as proprietary electronic data. Our offerings also include
anti-theft systems utilizing acousto magnetic and radio frequency identification tags and labels in the retail industry. Many of the world's leading retailers use ourSensormaticanti-theft systems to
help protect against shoplifting and employee theft.

Purchasers
of our intrusion systems typically contract for ongoing security system monitoring and maintenance at the time of initial equipment installation. Systems installed at
customers' premises may be either owned by Tyco Security Solutions or by our customers. Monitoring center personnel may respond to alarms by relaying appropriate information to local fire or police
departments, notifying the customer or taking other appropriate action. In certain markets, Tyco Security Solutions directly provides the alarm response services with highly trained and professionally
equipped employees. In some instances, alarm systems are connected directly to local fire or police departments.

Recently,
Tyco Security Solutions launched Pulse Interactive Solutions ("Pulse") for residential and small business customers. Pulse includes home automation features in addition to
interactive remote security capability for customers. Depending on the plan that is purchased, customers can remotely access information regarding the security of their home or business, arm and
disarm their security system, adjust lighting or thermostat levels, or view real-time video from cameras covering different











areas
of their premises, all via secure access from web-enabled devices. Pulse also allows customers to create customized schedules for turning lights, thermostats and appliances on or
off, and can be programmed to perform certain functions, such as recording video and sending text messages, based on triggering events.

Many
of our residential customers may purchase security systems as a result of prompting by their insurance carriers, which may offer lower insurance premium rates if a security system
is installed or require that a system be installed as a condition of coverage.

Tyco
Security Solutions also designs and manufactures electronic security products, including integrated video surveillance and access control systems to enable businesses to manage
their security and enhance business performance. Its global access control solutions include: integrated security management systems for enterprise applications, access control solutions applications,
alarm management panels, door controllers, readers, keypads and cards. Its global video system solutions include: digital video management systems, matrix switchers and controllers, digital
multiplexers, programmable cameras, monitors and liquid crystal displays. Its intrusion security products provide advanced security products for homes and businesses ranging from burglar alarms to a
full range of security systems including
alarm control panels, keypads, sensors and central station receiving equipment used in security monitoring centers.

Customers

Tyco Security Solutions sells to residential, commercial, educational, governmental and industrial customers. Our residential customers
typically include owners of single-family homes or renters in multi-family apartment complexes. Our commercial customers include, among others, retail businesses, financial institutions,
commercial/industrial facilities and health care facilities. Our government customers include federal, state and local governments, defense installations, schools and universities and mass
transportation providers. In addition to advertising, direct mailings and the internet, we market our electronic security systems and services to these customers through a direct sales force and, with
respect to certain residential customers, through an authorized dealer network. A separate sales force services large commercial and governmental customers and focuses on key vertical markets such as
retail and banking.

Competition

The electronic security services business is highly competitive and fragmented with a number of major firms and thousands of smaller
regional and local companies. Competition is based primarily on price in relation to quality of service. Rather than compete purely on price, we emphasize the quality of our electronic security
service, the reputation of our brands and our knowledge of our customers' security needs. For large commercial, educational, governmental and industrial customers the comprehensive national and/or
global coverage offered by Tyco Security Solutions can also provide a competitive advantage. We also have significantly expanded our systems integration capabilities, which allow Tyco Security
Solutions to offer comprehensive solutions to commercial customers that fully integrate security and fire offerings into comprehensive IT networks, business operations and management tools, and
process automation and control systems.

Competition
for the manufacture and sale of our security products is based on specialized product capacity, breadth of product line, price, training and support and delivery. The
principal competitors are specialty products manufacturing companies based in the United States, with other smaller competitors in Europe and Asia.









Tyco Fire Protection

Our Tyco Fire Protection segment designs, manufactures, sells, installs and services fire detection and fire suppression systems and
building and life safety products for commercial enterprises, governmental entities, airports, commercial shipping companies, transportation systems, healthcare facility operators, petrochemical
facilities and homeowners. We believe we are one of the largest providers of these systems and services. With 2011 net revenue of $4.8 billion, our Tyco Fire Protection segment comprises 28% of
our consolidated net revenue. In 2010 and 2009, net revenue totaled $4.5 billion, or 27%, of our consolidated net revenue and $4.6 billion, or 27%, of our consolidated net revenue,
respectively.

Services and Products

Tyco Fire Protection designs, manufactures, sells, installs and services fire alarm and fire detection systems, automatic fire
sprinkler systems and special hazard suppression systems. Tyco Fire Protection operates under various leading trade names, includingSimplexGrinnell, Wormald, Dong Bang,
Zettler, Ansul, Grinnell, Total WaltherandTyco.

Tyco
Fire Protection offers a wide range of fire alarm and fire detection systems. These alarm and detection systems include fire alarm control panels, advanced fire alarm monitoring
systems, smoke, heat and carbon monoxide detectors and voice evacuation systems. Tyco Fire Protection also offers a wide range of water-based sprinkler systems. In addition, Tyco Fire Protection
provides custom designed special hazard suppression systems, which incorporate specialized extinguishing agents such as foams, dry chemicals and gases. These systems are often especially suited to
fire suppression in certain manufacturing, power generation, petrochemical, offshore oil exploration, transportation, data processing, telecommunications, commercial food preparation, mining and
marine applications.

Tyco
Fire Protection installs fire detection and fire suppression systems in both new and existing buildings. These systems typically are purchased by owners, construction engineers and
electrical contractors as well as mechanical or general contractors. In recent years, retrofitting of existing buildings has grown as a result of legislation mandating the installation of fire
detection and fire suppression systems, especially in hotels, healthcare facilities and educational establishments. In
September 2008, the International Residential Code Council, a non-profit association that develops model codes that are the predominant building and fire safety regulations used by state
and local jurisdictions in the United States, adopted a proposal advanced by firefighters and other life-safety advocates to require sprinkler systems in new one and two family dwellings
effective in January 2011. This national code is not binding on state and local jurisdictions and must be adopted locally before it becomes mandatory for new homes being built in these areas. The
timing of adoption, if at all, will vary by jurisdiction. Tyco Fire Protection also continues to focus on system maintenance and inspection and other services, which have become increasingly
significant parts of its business.

Tyco
Fire Protection also manufactures life safety products, including self-contained breathing apparatus designed for firefighter, industrial and military use, supplied air
respirators, air-purifying respirators, thermal imaging cameras, gas detection equipment and gas masks. Tyco Fire Protection's breathing apparatus are used by the military forces of
several countries and many U.S. firefighters rely on theScott Air-Pakbrand of self-contained breathing apparatus.

Customers

Tyco Fire Protection's customers include commercial enterprises, governmental entities, airports, commercial shipping companies,
transportation systems, healthcare facility operators, petrochemical facilities and homeowners. We market our fire detection and fire suppression systems to the majority of these customers through a
direct sales force. Customers for our fire sprinkler, fire detection and fire suppression products include distributors, commercial builders and contractors that install and service











fire
suppression and detection systems. Residential builders, contractors and developers are emerging customers for our sprinkler products given changing regulatory dynamics. Our customers for our
breathing apparatus include fire departments, municipal and state governments and military forces as well as major companies in the industrial sector.

Competition

Competition in the fire detection and fire suppression business varies by region. In North America, we compete with hundreds of smaller
contractors on a regional or local basis for the installation of fire detection and fire suppression systems. In Europe, we compete with many
regional or local contractors on a country-by-country basis. In Asia, Australia and New Zealand, we compete with a few large fire detection and fire suppression contractors, as
well as with many smaller regional and local companies. We compete for fire detection and fire suppression systems contracts primarily on the basis of service, product attributes, quality and price.

Competition
for the manufacture and sale of our products is based on specialized product capacity, breadth of product line, price, training and support and delivery. The principal
competitors are specialty products manufacturing companies based in the United States, with other smaller competitors in Europe and Asia.

Tyco Flow Control

Our Tyco Flow Control segment designs, manufactures, sells and services valves, pipes, fittings, valve automation and heat tracing
products for process, oil and gas, power and mining markets as well as the water and wastewater market. We believe we are the world's leading manufacturer of flow control products. With 2011 net
revenue of $3.6 billion, our Tyco Flow Control segment comprises 21% of our consolidated net revenue. In 2010 and 2009, net revenue totaled $3.4 billion, or 20%, of our consolidated net
revenue and $3.5 billion, or 21%, of our consolidated net revenue, respectively. Tyco Flow Control is a global business with 31% of its sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), 31%
from the Americas, 23% from the Pacific region and 15% from Asia. On September 30, 2010 we sold our water business in Europe. This business met the held for sale and discontinued operations
criteria and has been included in discontinued operations for all periods presented.

Services and Products

Tyco Flow Control designs, manufactures and services a wide variety of valves, actuators, controls, pipes, fittings and heat tracing
products. Valve products include a broad range of industrial valves, including on-off valves, safety relief valves and other specialty valves. Actuation products include pneumatic,
hydraulic and electric actuators. Control products include limit switches, solenoid valves, valve positioners, network systems and accessories. For the water market, Tyco Flow Control offers a wide
variety of pipes and valves for water transmission applications. Tyco Flow Control is also a global provider of heat tracing services and products. In addition to these products, Tyco Flow Control
makes a variety of specialty products for environmental (emissions monitoring, water flow and quality monitoring, dust filter cleaning systems), instrumentation (manifolds, enclosures, isolation
valves) and other applications. We manufacture these products in facilities located throughout the world.

Tyco
Flow Control products are used in many applications including power generation, chemical, petrochemical, oil and gas, wastewater, pulp and paper, commercial irrigation, mining and
food and beverage. Tyco Flow Control also provides engineering, design, inspection, maintenance and repair services for its valves and related products.

Tyco
Flow Control products are sold under many trade names, includingAnderson Greenwood, Biffi, Crosby, Keystone, KTM, Raychem, Sempell,
TracerandVanessa.Tyco Flow Control sells its services











and
products in most geographic regions directly through its internal sales force and in some cases through a network of independent distributors and manufacturers' representatives.

Customers

Tyco Flow Control's customers include businesses engaged in a wide range of industries, including power generation, chemical and
petrochemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas exploration, production and refining, mining, water, food and beverage, marine and shipbuilding and other process industries. Customers include end users as
well as engineering, procurement and construction companies, contractors, original equipment manufacturers and distributors. Tyco Flow Control operates an extensive network of sales, service and
distribution centers to serve a wide range of global customers.

Competition

The flow control industry is highly fragmented, consisting of many local and regional companies and a few global competitors. We
compete against a number of international, national and local manufacturers of industrial valves as well as against specialized manufacturers on the basis of product capability, product quality,
breadth of product line, delivery, service capability and price. Our major competitors vary by region.

Backlog

See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information relating to
our backlog.

Intellectual Property

Patents, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets,
manufacturing know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third-party proprietary rights,
including trademarks, patents and patent applications, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing
opportunities and misappropriation of our proprietary rights, and monitor the intellectual property claims of others.

We
own a portfolio of patents that principally relates to: electronic security systems; fire protection products and systems, including fire detection and fire suppression with chemical,
gas, foam and water agents, piping, couplings, fittings for fluid systems; personal protective products and systems for fire and other hazards; integrated systems for surveillance and control of
public transportation and other public works; heat tracing and floor heating systems; and flow control products, including valves, actuators and controllers and airflow control and sensing products.
We also own a portfolio of trademarks and are a licensee of various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant
and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and
use of the marks.

While
we consider our patents to be valuable assets, we do not believe that our overall competitive position is dependent on patent protection or that our overall operations are
dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents.

Research and Development

We are engaged in research and development in an effort to introduce new products, to enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, safety
and reliability of our existing products and to expand the











applications
for which the uses of our products are appropriate. We continually evaluate developing technologies in areas that we believe will enhance our business for possible investment. Our
research and development expense was $147 million in 2011, $131 million in 2010 and $116 million in 2009.

Raw and Other Purchased Materials

We are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including gasoline. Materials are purchased from a large number of independent
sources around the world. There have been no shortages in materials that have had a material adverse effect on our businesses. We enter into long-term supply contracts, using fixed or
variable pricing to manage our exposure to potential supply disruptions. Significant changes in certain raw material costs may have an adverse impact on costs and operating margins.

Governmental Regulation and Supervision

Environmental Matters

We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other
things, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees.

Certain
environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties
or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims
due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or pursuant to indemnifications provided by us in connection with asset disposals. We have received notification from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and from state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible
remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. We have projects underway at a number of
current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations.









Given
uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods, the ultimate cost of cleanup at
disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict. Based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable
that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $38 million to $86 million as of September 30, 2011. As of September 30, 2011, we concluded that the best
estimate within this range is approximately $60 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $42 million is included in other liabilities
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In view of our financial position and reserves for environmental matters, we believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material
adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Employees

As of September 30, 2011, we employed approximately 102,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 39,000 are employed in the
United States and 63,000 are outside the United States. Approximately 22,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the
labor unions are generally good.

Available Information

Tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Investors may read
and copy any document that Tyco files, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC
20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an
Internet site athttp://www.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access Tyco's SEC filings.

Our
Internet website iswww.tyco.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, reports filed pursuant to Section 16 and any amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. As a Swiss
company, we prepare Swiss statutory financial statements, including Swiss consolidated financial statements, on an annual basis. A copy of the Swiss statutory financial statements is distributed along
with our annual report to shareholders, and all of the aforementioned reports will be made available to our shareholders upon their request. In addition, we have posted the charters for our Audit
Committee, Compensation and Human Resources Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee, as well as our Board Governance Principles and Guide to Ethical Conduct, on our website under the
heading "Corporate Citizenship—Governance." The annual report to shareholders, charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. We will also provide a copy of
these documents free of charge to shareholders upon request.

