10-K


form10k_2007.htm

FORM 10-K DATED DECEMBER 31, 2007

form10k_2007.htm

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON,
D. C. 20549

FORM
10-K

(Mark
One)

[X]  ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007

OR

[
]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
      the transition period from __________________ to
      ___________________

SECURITIES
REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

SECURITIES
REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

(X)

No

(  )

FirstEnergy
      Corp.

Yes

(  )

No

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
      Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central Power & Light
      Company, Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric
      Company

Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes

(X)

No

(  )

FirstEnergy
      Solutions Corp., The Toledo Edison Company, Metropolitan Edison Company,
      The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and Jersey Central Power &
      Light Company

Yes

(  )

No

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Corp., Ohio Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric
    Company

Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

(X)

No

(  )

FirstEnergy
      Corp., Ohio Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric
    Company

Yes

(  )

No

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Solutions Corp., The Toledo Edison Company,  Metropolitan Edison
      Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and Jersey Central
      Power & Light Company

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

(  )

FirstEnergy
      Corp.

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
      Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central Power & Light
      Company, Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric
      Company

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of "accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
One):

Large
      Accelerated Filer

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Corp.

Accelerated
      Filer

(  )

N/A

Non-accelerated
      Filer (do not check if a Smaller Reporting Company)

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
      Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central Power & Light
      Company, Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric
      Company

Smaller
      Reporting Company

(  )

N/A

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

(  )

No

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Corp., FirstEnergy Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland
      Electric Illuminating Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central
      Power & Light Company, Metropolitan Edison Company, and Pennsylvania
      Electric Company

State
the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was
last sold, or the average bid and ask price of such common equity, as of the
last business day of the registrants' most recently completed second fiscal
quarter.

FirstEnergy
Corp., $19,606,108,911 as of June 30, 2007; and for all other registrants,
none.

Indicate
the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of common
stock, as of the latest practicable date.

OUTSTANDING

CLASS

AS
      OF FEBRUARY 28, 2008

FirstEnergy
      Corp., $.10 par value

304,835,407

FirstEnergy
      Solutions Corp., no par value


Ohio
      Edison Company, no par value


The
      Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, no par value

67,930,743

The
      Toledo Edison Company, $5 par value

29,402,054

Jersey
      Central Power & Light Company, $10 par value

14,421,637

Metropolitan
      Edison Company, no par value

859,500

Pennsylvania
      Electric Company, $20 par value

4,427,577

FirstEnergy
Corp. is the sole holder of FirstEnergy Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company,
The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey
Central Power & Light Company, Metropolitan Edison Company, and Pennsylvania
Electric Company common stock.

Documents
incorporated by reference (to the extent indicated herein):

This
combined Form 10-K is separately filed by FirstEnergy Corp., FirstEnergy
Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central Power & Light Company,
Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric Company. Information
contained herein relating to any individual registrant is filed by such
registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to
information relating to any other registrant, except that information relating
to any of the FirstEnergy subsidiary registrants is also attributed to
FirstEnergy Corp.

OMISSION OF CERTAIN
INFORMATION

FirstEnergy
Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central Power & Light Company,
Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric Company meet the
conditions set forth in General Instruction I(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K and are
therefore filing this Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format specified in
General Instruction I(2) to Form 10-K.

Forward-Looking Statements:

This Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements based on information
currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks
and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's
intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain,
but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect,"
"believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve
estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors
that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially
different from any future results, performance or achievement expressed or
implied by such forward-looking statements.

Actual
results may differ materially due to:

▪

the
      speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry
      and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will
      be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and
      Pennsylvania,

▪

economic
      or weather conditions affecting future sales and
  margins,

▪

changes
      in markets for energy services,

▪

changing
      energy and commodity market prices,

▪

replacement
      power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately
      hedged,

▪

the
      continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect
      transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission
      costs,

▪

maintenance
      costs being higher than
anticipated,

▪

other
      legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental
      requirements, including possible GHG emission
  regulations,

▪

the
      uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed
      to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan
      (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels
      of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New
      Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory
      initiatives,

▪

adverse
      regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to,
      the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight)
      by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information
      issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) as disclosed in the registrants' SEC
      filings,

▪

the
      timing and outcome of various proceedings before
  the

-

PUCO
      (including, but not limited to, the distribution rate cases and the
      generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful
      resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court
      regarding the RSP and RCP, including the deferral of fuel
      costs)

-

and
      the PPUC (including the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with
      the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate
      plan for Met-Ed and Penelec),

▪

the
      continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate
      at, or near full capacity,

▪

the
      changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in
      the registrants' nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other
      trust funds,

▪

the
      ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability
      standards,

▪

the
      ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals
      (including employee workforce
initiatives),

▪

the
      ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in
      the distribution business,

▪

the
      ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the
      cost of such capital,

▪

the
      risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants'
      SEC filings, and other similar
factors.

The
foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors
emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all such factors,
nor assess the impact of any such factor on the registrants' business or the
extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to
differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Also,
a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and
it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time and each such rating
should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The registrants expressly
disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements
contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or
otherwise.

GLOSSARY
OF TERMS

The
following abbreviations and acronyms are used in this report to identify
FirstEnergy Corp. and its current and former subsidiaries:

i

GLOSSARY
OF TERMS Cont'd.

ii

FORM
10-K 
iii

PART
I

ITEM
1.

BUSINESS

The
Company

FirstEnergy
Corp. was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1996. FirstEnergy's
principal business is the holding, directly or indirectly, of all of the
outstanding common stock of its eight principal electric utility operating
subsidiaries: OE, CEI, TE, Penn, ATSI, JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec.
FirstEnergy's consolidated revenues are primarily derived from electric service
provided by its utility operating subsidiaries and the revenues of its other
principal subsidiary, FES. In addition, FirstEnergy holds all of the outstanding
common stock of other direct subsidiaries including: FirstEnergy Properties,
Inc., FirstEnergy Ventures Corp., FENOC, FirstEnergy Securities Transfer
Company, GPU Diversified Holdings, LLC, GPU Telecom Services, Inc., GPU Nuclear,
Inc. and FESC.

FES was
organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1997.  FES provides
energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers in the
MISO and PJM markets. FES also owns and operates, through its subsidiary, FGCO,
FirstEnergy's fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities and owns, through
its subsidiary, NGC, FirstEnergy's nuclear generating facilities (see Generation
Asset Transfers below).  FENOC, a separate subsidiary of FirstEnergy,
organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1998, operates and maintains
NGC's nuclear generating facilities. FES purchases the entire generation output
of the facilities owned by FGCO and NGC, as well as the output relating to
leasehold interests of the Ohio Companies in certain of those facilities that
are subject to sale and leaseback arrangements with non-affiliates, pursuant to
full output, cost-of-service PSAs.

FirstEnergy's
generating portfolio includes 14,127 MW (net) of diversified capacity (FES –
13,841 MW and JCP&L – 286 MW). Within FES’ portfolio, approximately 7,469
MW, or 54.0%, consists of coal-fired capacity; 3,945 MW, or 28.5%, consists of
nuclear capacity; 1,513 MW, or 10.9%, consists of oil and natural gas peaking
units; 451 MW, or 3.3%, consists of hydroelectric capacity; and 463 MW, or 3.3%,
consists of capacity from FGCO’s 20.5% entitlement to the generation output
owned by the Ohio Valley Electric Corporation. FirstEnergy’s nuclear and
non-nuclear facilities are all operated by FENOC and FGCO, respectively, and,
except for portions of certain facilities that are subject to the sale and
leaseback arrangements with non-affiliates referred to above for which the
corresponding output is available to FES through power sale agreements, are all
owned directly by NGC and FGCO, respectively. The FES generating assets are
concentrated primarily in Ohio, plus the bordering regions of Pennsylvania and
Michigan. All FES units are dedicated to MISO except the Beaver Valley Power
Station, which is designated as a PJM resource.

FES complies with
the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC and the
FERC.  NGC and FENOC comply with the regulations, orders, policies and
practices prescribed by the NRC.

The
Companies' combined service areas encompass approximately 36,100 square miles in
Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The areas they serve have a combined
population of approximately 11.3 million.

OE was
organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1930 and owns property and does
business as an electric public utility in that state. OE engages in the
distribution and sale of electric energy to communities in a 7,000 square mile
area of central and northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of
approximately 2.8 million. OE complies with the regulations, orders, policies
and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.

OE owns
all of Penn's outstanding common stock. Penn was organized under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1930 and owns property and does business as an
electric public utility in that state. Penn is also authorized to do business in
the State of Ohio (see Item 2 Properties). Penn furnishes electric service to
communities in a 1,100 square mile area of western Pennsylvania. The area it
serves has a population of approximately 0.4 million. Penn complies
with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the FERC and
PPUC.

CEI was
organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1892 and does business as an
electric public utility in that state. CEI engages in the distribution and sale
of electric energy in an area of approximately 1,600 square miles in
northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately
1.8 million. CEI complies with the regulations, orders, policies and
practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.

TE was
organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1901 and does business as an
electric public utility in that state. TE engages in the distribution and sale
of electric energy in an area of approximately 2,300 square miles in
northwestern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately
0.8 million. TE complies with the regulations, orders, policies and
practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.


ATSI was
organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1998. ATSI owns transmission
assets that were formerly owned by the Ohio Companies and Penn. ATSI owns and
operates major, high-voltage transmission facilities, which consist of
approximately 5,821 pole miles of transmission lines with nominal voltages of
345 kV, 138 kV and 69 kV. ATSI is the control area operator for the Ohio
Companies and Penn service areas. ATSI plans, operates and maintains the
transmission system in accordance with the requirements of the FERC, NERC and
other applicable regulatory bodies to provide reliable service to
FirstEnergy's customers (see FERC Rate Matters for a discussion of ATSI's
participation in MISO).

JCP&L
was organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1925 and owns
property and does business as an electric public utility in that state.
JCP&L provides transmission and distribution services in 3,200 square miles
of northern, western and east central New Jersey. The area it serves has a
population of approximately 2.6 million. JCP&L complies with the
regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and the
NJBPU.

Met-Ed
was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1922 and
owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state.
Met-Ed provides transmission and distribution services in 3,300 square miles of
eastern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of
approximately 1.3 million. Met-Ed complies with the regulations, orders,
policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PPUC.

Penelec
was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1919 and
owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state.
Penelec provides transmission and distribution services in 17,600 square miles
of western, northern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a
population of approximately 1.6 million. Penelec, as lessee of the property
of its subsidiary, The Waverly Electric Light & Power Company, also serves
customers in Waverly, New York and its vicinity. Penelec complies with the
regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and
PPUC.

FESC provides

legal, financial
and other corporate support services to affiliated FirstEnergy companies.

Reference
is made to Note 16, Segment Information, of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in Item 8 for information regarding
FirstEnergy's reportable segments.

Generation
Asset Transfers

In 2005,
the Ohio Companies and Penn transferred their respective undivided ownership
interests in FirstEnergy's nuclear and non-nuclear generation assets to NGC and
FGCO, respectively. All of the non-nuclear assets were transferred to FGCO under
the purchase option terms of a Master Facility Lease between FGCO and the Ohio
Companies and Penn, under which FGCO leased, operated and maintained the assets
that it now owns. CEI and TE sold their interests in nuclear generation assets
at net book value to NGC, while OE and Penn transferred their interests to NGC
through an asset spin-off in the form of a dividend. On December 28, 2006, the
NRC approved the transfer of ownership in NGC from FirstEnergy to FES. Effective
December 31, 2006, NGC is a wholly owned subsidiary of FES and second tier
subsidiary of FirstEnergy.  FENOC continues to operate and maintain
the nuclear generation assets.

Although
the generating plant interests transferred in 2005 did not include leasehold
interests of CEI, OE and TE in certain of the plants that are subject to sale
and leaseback arrangements entered into in 1987 with non-affiliates, effective
October 16, 2007, CEI and TE assigned their leasehold interests in the
Bruce Mansfield Plant to FGCO. FGCO assumed all of CEI's and TE's obligations
arising under those leases. FGCO subsequently transferred the Unit 1 portion of
these leasehold interests, as well as FGCO's leasehold interests under its July
13, 2007 Bruce Mansfield Unit 1 sale and leaseback transaction, to a newly
formed wholly-owned subsidiary on December 17, 2007.  The subsidiary
assumed all of the lessee obligations associated with the assigned interests.
However, CEI and TE remain primarily liable on the 1987 leases and related
agreements. FGCO remains primarily liable on the 2007 leases and related
agreements, and FES remains primarily liable as a guarantor under the related
2007 guarantees, as to the lessors and other parties to the respective
agreements.

These
transactions above were undertaken pursuant to the Ohio Companies' and Penn's
restructuring plans that were approved by the PUCO and the PPUC, respectively,
under applicable Ohio and Pennsylvania electric utility restructuring
legislation. Consistent with the restructuring plans, generation assets that had
been owned by the Ohio Companies and Penn were required to be separated from the
regulated delivery business of those companies through transfer or sale to a
separate corporate entity. The transactions essentially completed the
divestitures of owned assets contemplated by the restructuring plans by
transferring the ownership interests to NGC and FGCO without impacting the
operation of the plants. The transfers were intracompany transactions and,
therefore, had no impact on our consolidated results.


Sale
and Leaseback Transaction

On July
13, 2007, FGCO completed a sale and leaseback transaction for its 93.825%
undivided interest in Bruce Mansfield Unit 1, representing 779 MW of net
demonstrated capacity. The purchase price of approximately $1.329 billion
(net after-tax proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion) for the undivided
interest was funded through a combination of equity investments by affiliates of
AIG Financial Products Corp. and Union Bank of California, N.A. in six lessor
trusts and proceeds from the sale of $1.135 billion aggregate principal amount
of 6.85% pass through certificates due 2034. A like principal amount of secured
notes maturing June 1, 2034 were issued by the lessor trusts to the pass through
trust that issued and sold the certificates. The lessor trusts leased the
undivided interest back to FGCO for a term of approximately 33 years under
substantially identical leases. FES has unconditionally and irrevocably
guaranteed all of FGCO's obligations under each of the leases. The notes and
certificates are not guaranteed by FES or FGCO, but the notes are secured by,
among other things, each lessor's undivided interest in Unit 1, rights and
interests under the applicable lease and rights and interests under other
related agreements. FES' registration obligations under the registration rights
agreement applicable to the $1.135 billion principal amount of pass through
certificates issued in connection with the transaction were satisfied in
September 2007, at which time the transaction was classified as an operating
lease under GAAP for FES and FirstEnergy.

Utility
Regulation

State Regulation

Each of the
Companies’ retail rates, conditions of service, issuance of securities and other
matters are subject to regulation in the state in which each company operates –
in Ohio by the PUCO, in New Jersey by the NJBPU and in Pennsylvania by the
PPUC.  In addition, under Ohio law, municipalities may regulate rates
of a public utility, subject to appeal to the PUCO if not acceptable to the
utility.

As a competitive
retail electric supplier serving retail customers in Michigan, Ohio,
Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland, FES is subject to state laws applicable
to competitive electric suppliers in those states, including affiliate codes of
conduct that apply to FES and its public utility affiliates.  In
addition, if FES or any of its subsidiaries were to engage in the construction
of significant new generation facilities, they would also be subject to state
siting authority.

Federal Regulation

With respect to
their wholesale and interstate electric operations and rates, the Companies,
ATSI, FES, FGCO and NGC are subject to regulation by the FERC. Under the FPA,
the FERC regulates rates for interstate sales at wholesale, transmission of
electric power, accounting and other matters, including construction and
operation of hydroelectric projects. The FERC regulations require ATSI, Met-Ed,
JCP&L and Penelec to provide open access transmission service at
FERC-approved rates, terms and conditions.  Transmission service over
ATSI’s facilities is provided by MISO under its open access transmission tariff,
and transmission service over Met-Ed’s, JCP&L’s and Penelec’s facilities is
provided by PJM under its open access transmission tariff. The FERC also
regulates unbundled transmission service to retail customers.

The FERC also
regulates the sale of power for resale in interstate commerce by granting
authority to public utilities to sell wholesale power at market-based rates upon
a showing that the seller cannot exert market power in generation or
transmission. FES, FGCO and NGC have been authorized by the FERC to sell
wholesale power in interstate commerce and have a market-based tariff on file
with the FERC. By virtue of this tariff and authority to sell wholesale power,
each company is regulated as a public utility under the FPA.  However,
consistent with its historical practice, the FERC has granted FES, FGCO and NGC
a waiver from most of the reporting, record-keeping and accounting requirements
that typically apply to traditional public utilities.  Along with
market-based rate authority, the FERC also granted FES, FGCO and NGC blanket
authority to issue securities and assume liabilities under Section 204 of the
FPA. As a condition to selling electricity on a wholesale basis at market-based
rates, FES, FGCO and NGC, like all other entities granted market-based rate
authority, must file electronic quarterly reports with the FERC, listing its
sales transactions for the prior quarter.

In August 2005,
President Bush signed into law the EPACT, which repealed the PUHCA effective
February 2006. The PUHCA imposed financial and operational restrictions on many
aspects of FirstEnergy’s business. Some of the PUHCA’s consumer protection
authority was transferred to the FERC and state utility
commissions.  The EPACT also provides for tax credits for the
development of certain clean coal and emissions technologies.


The nuclear
generating facilities owned and leased by NGC are subject to extensive
regulation by the NRC.  The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations
to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations,
maintenance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological
aspects of those stations. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke operating
licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy
Act, the regulations under such Act or the terms of the licenses. FENOC is the
licensee for these plants and has direct compliance responsibility for NRC
matters. FES controls the economic dispatch of NGC’s plants.  See
“Nuclear Regulation” below.

Regulatory Accounting

The
Companies and ATSI recognize, as regulatory assets, costs which the FERC, PUCO,
PPUC and NJBPU have authorized for recovery from customers in future periods or
for which authorization is probable. Without the probability of such
authorization, costs currently recorded as regulatory assets would have been
charged to income as incurred. All regulatory assets are expected to be
recovered from customers under the Companies' respective transition and
regulatory plans. Based on those plans, the Companies continue to bill and
collect cost-based rates for their transmission and distribution services, which
remain regulated; accordingly, it is appropriate that the Companies continue the
application of SFAS 71 to those operations.

FirstEnergy
accounts for the effects of regulation through the application of SFAS 71
to its operating utilities since their rates:

▪

are
      established by a third-party regulator with the authority to set rates
      that bind customers;

▪

are
      cost-based; and

▪

can
      be charged to and collected from
customers.

An
enterprise meeting all of these criteria capitalizes costs that would otherwise
be charged to expense if the rate actions of its regulator make it probable that
those costs will be recovered in future revenue. SFAS 71 is applied only to
the parts of the business that meet the above criteria. If a portion of the
business applying SFAS 71 no longer meets those requirements, previously
recorded net regulatory assets are removed from the balance sheet in accordance
with the guidance in SFAS 101.

In Ohio,
New Jersey and Pennsylvania, laws applicable to electric industry restructuring
contain similar provisions that are reflected in the Companies' respective state
regulatory plans. These provisions include:

▪

restructuring
      the electric generation business and allowing the Companies' customers to
      select a competitive electric generation supplier other than the
      Companies;

▪

establishing
      or defining the PLR obligations to customers in the Companies' service
      areas;

▪

providing
      the Companies with the opportunity to recover potentially stranded
      investment (or transition costs) not otherwise recoverable in a
      competitive generation market;

▪

itemizing
      (unbundling) the price of electricity into its component elements
      including generation, transmission, distribution and stranded costs
      recovery charges;

▪

continuing
      regulation of the Companies' transmission and distribution systems;
      and

▪

requiring
      corporate separation of regulated and unregulated business
      activities.

Reliability Initiatives

In late
2003 and early 2004, a series of letters, reports and recommendations were
issued from various entities, including governmental, industry and ad hoc
reliability entities (PUCO, FERC, NERC and the U.S. - Canada Power System Outage
Task Force) regarding enhancements to regional reliability. The proposed
enhancements were divided into two groups:  enhancements that were to
be completed in 2004; and enhancements that were to be completed after
2004.  In 2004, FirstEnergy completed all of the enhancements that
were recommended for completion in 2004.  Subsequently, FirstEnergy
has worked systematically to complete all of the enhancements that were
identified for completion after 2004, and FirstEnergy expects to complete this
work prior to the summer of 2008.  The FERC and the other affected
government agencies and reliability entities may review FirstEnergy's work and,
on the basis of any such review, may recommend additional enhancements in the
future, which could require additional, material expenditures.


As a
result of outages experienced in JCP&L's service area in 2002 and 2003, the
NJBPU performed a review of JCP&L's service reliability. On June 9,
2004, the NJBPU approved a stipulation that addresses a third-party consultants
recommendations on appropriate courses of action necessary to ensure system-wide
reliability. The stipulation incorporates the consultants focused audit of, and
recommendations regarding, JCP&L's Planning and Operations and Maintenance
programs and practices. On June 1, 2005, the consultant completed his work and
issued his final report to the NJBPU. On July 14, 2006, JCP&L filed a
comprehensive response to the consultant's report with the NJBPU. JCP&L will
complete the remaining substantive work described in the stipulation in
2008.  JCP&L continues to file compliance reports with the NJBPU
reflecting JCP&L's activities associated with implementing the
stipulation.

In 2005,
Congress amended the Federal Power Act to provide for federally-enforceable
mandatory reliability standards. The mandatory reliability standards apply to
the bulk power system and impose certain operating, record-keeping and reporting
requirements on the Companies and ATSI. The NERC is charged with establishing
and enforcing these reliability standards, although it has delegated day-to-day
implementation and enforcement of its responsibilities to eight regional
entities, including the Reliabilty

First

Corporation. All of
FirstEnergy's facilities are located within the Reliabilty

First

region. FirstEnergy
actively participates in the NERC and Reliabilty

First

stakeholder processes,
and otherwise monitors and manages its companies in response to the ongoing
development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability
standards.

FirstEnergy
believes that it is in compliance with all currently-effective and enforceable
reliability standards.  Nevertheless, it is clear that NERC,
Reliabilty

First

and the
FERC will continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as to
develop and adopt new reliability standards. The financial impact of complying
with new or amended standards cannot be determined at this time. However, the
2005 amendments to the Federal Power Act provide that all prudent costs incurred
to comply with the new reliability standards be recovered in rates. Still, any
future inability on FirstEnergy's part to comply with the reliability standards
for its bulk power system could have a material adverse effect on its financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.

In April
2007, Reliabilit

yFirst

performed a routine compliance audit of FirstEnergy's bulk-power system within
the Midwest ISO region and found it to be in full compliance with all audited
reliability standards.  Similarly, Reliability

First

has scheduled a
compliance audit of FirstEnergy's bulk-power system within the PJM region in
2008. FirstEnergy currently does not expect any material adverse financial
impact as a result of these audits.

PUCO Rate Matters

On
September 9, 2005, the Ohio Companies filed their RCP with the PUCO. The filing
included a stipulation and supplemental stipulation with several parties
agreeing to the provisions set forth in the plan. On January 4, 2006, the
PUCO issued an order which approved the stipulations clarifying certain
provisions. Several parties subsequently filed appeals to the Supreme Court of
Ohio in connection with certain portions of the approved RCP. In its order, the
PUCO authorized the Ohio Companies to recover certain increased fuel costs
through a fuel rider, and to defer certain other increased fuel costs to be
incurred from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008, including interest on
the deferred balances. The order also provided for recovery of the deferred
costs over a 25-year period through distribution rates, which are expected to be
effective on January 1, 2009 for OE and TE, and approximately May 2009 for
CEI.  Through December 31, 2007, the deferred fuel costs, including
interest, were $111 million, $76 million and $33 million for OE, CEI and TE,
respectively.

On
August 29, 2007, the Supreme Court of Ohio concluded that the PUCO violated a
provision of the Ohio Revised Code by permitting the Ohio Companies to collect
deferred increased fuel costs through future distribution rate cases, or to
alternatively use excess fuel-cost recovery to reduce deferred
distribution-related expenses because fuel costs are a component of generation
service, not distribution service, and permitting recovery of deferred fuel
costs through distribution rates constituted an impermissible subsidy. The Court
remanded the matter to the PUCO for further consideration consistent with the
Court's Opinion on this issue and affirmed the PUCO's order in all other
respects. On September 10, 2007 the Ohio Companies filed an Application
with the PUCO that requested the implementation of two generation-related fuel
cost riders to collect the increased fuel costs that were previously authorized
to be deferred. The Ohio Companies requested the riders to become effective in
October 2007 and end in December 2008, subject to reconciliation that would be
expected to continue through the first quarter of 2009. On January 9, 2008 the
PUCO approved the Ohio Companies' proposed fuel cost rider to recover increased
fuel costs to be incurred commencing January 1, 2008 through December 31,
2008, which is expected to be approximately $167 million. The fuel cost
rider became effective January 11, 2008 and will be adjusted and reconciled
quarterly. In addition, the PUCO ordered the Ohio Companies to file a separate
application for an alternate recovery mechanism to collect the 2006 and 2007
deferred fuel costs. On February 8, 2008, the Ohio Companies filed an
application proposing to recover $220 million of deferred fuel costs and
carrying charges for 2006 and 2007 pursuant to a separate fuel rider, with
alternative options for the recovery period ranging from five to twenty-five
years. This second application is currently pending before the
PUCO.


The Ohio
Companies recover all MISO transmission and ancillary service related costs
incurred through a reconcilable rider that is updated annually on July 1. The
riders that became effective on July 1, 2007, represent an increase over the
amounts collected through the 2006 riders of approximately $64 million annually.
If it is subsequently determined by the PUCO that adjustments to the riders as
filed are necessary, such adjustments, with carrying costs, will be incorporated
into the 2008 transmission rider filing.

The Ohio
Companies filed an application and rate request for an increase in electric
distribution rates with the PUCO on June 7, 2007. The requested increase is
expected to be more than offset by the elimination or reduction of transition
charges at the time the rates go into effect and would result in lowering the
overall non-generation portion of the average electric bill for most Ohio
customers.  The distribution rate increases reflect capital
expenditures since the Ohio Companies' last distribution rate proceedings,
increases in operation and maintenance expenses and recovery of regulatory
assets that were authorized in prior cases. On August 6, 2007, the Ohio
Companies updated their filing supporting a distribution rate increase of
$332 million. On December 4, 2007, the PUCO Staff issued its Staff Reports
containing the results of their investigation into the distribution rate
request. In its reports, the PUCO Staff recommended a distribution rate increase
in the range of $161 million to $180 million, with $108 million to $127 million
for distribution revenue increases and $53 million for recovery of costs
deferred under prior cases. This amount excludes the recovery of deferred fuel
costs, whose recovery is now being sought in a separate proceeding before the
PUCO, discussed above. On January 3, 2008, the Ohio Companies and intervening
parties filed objections to the Staff Reports and on January 10, 2008, the
Ohio Companies filed supplemental testimony. Evidentiary hearings began on
January 29, 2008 and continued through February 2008. During the evidentiary
hearings, the PUCO Staff submitted testimony decreasing their recommended
revenue increase to a range of $114 million to $132 million.
Additionally, in testimony submitted on February 11, 2008, the PUCO Staff
adopted a position regarding interest deferred pursuant to the RCP that, if
upheld by the PUCO, would result in the write-off of approximately
$13 million of interest costs deferred through December 31, 2007 ($0.03 per
share of common stock). The PUCO is expected to render its decision during the
second or third quarter of 2008. The new rates would become effective
January 1, 2009 for OE and TE, and approximately May 2009 for
CEI.

On July
10, 2007, the Ohio Companies filed an application with the PUCO requesting
approval of a comprehensive supply plan for providing retail generation service
to customers who do not purchase electricity from an alternative supplier,
beginning January 1, 2009. The proposed competitive bidding process would
average the results of multiple bidding sessions conducted at different times
during the year. The final price per kilowatt-hour would reflect an average of
the prices resulting from all bids. In their filing, the Ohio Companies offered
two alternatives for structuring the bids, either by customer class or a
"slice-of-system" approach. A slice-of-system approach would require the
successful bidder to be responsible for supplying a fixed percentage of the
utility's total load notwithstanding the customer's classification. The proposal
provides the PUCO with an option to phase in generation price increases for
residential tariff groups who would experience a change in their average total
price of 15 percent or more. The PUCO held a technical conference on August 16,
2007 regarding the filing. Initial and reply comments on the proposal were filed
by various parties in September and October, 2007, respectively. The
proposal is currently pending before the PUCO.

On
September 25, 2007, the Ohio Governors proposed energy plan was officially
introduced into the Ohio Senate. The bill proposes to revise state energy policy
to address electric generation pricing after 2008, establish advanced energy
portfolio standards and energy efficiency standards, and create GHG emissions
reporting and carbon control planning requirements. The bill also proposes to
move to a hybrid system for determining rates for default service in which
electric utilities would provide regulated generation service unless they
satisfy a statutory burden to demonstrate the existence of a competitive market
for retail electricity. The Senate Energy & Public Utilities Committee
conducted hearings on the bill and received testimony from interested parties,
including the Governors Energy Advisor, the Chairman of the PUCO, consumer
groups, utility executives and others. Several proposed amendments to the bill
were submitted, including those from Ohios investor-owned electric utilities. A
substitute version of the bill, which incorporated certain of the proposed
amendments, was introduced into the Senate Energy & Public Utilities
Committee on October 25, 2007 and was passed by the Ohio Senate on October
31, 2007. The bill as passed by the Senate is now being considered by the House
Public Utilities Committee, which has conducted hearings on the bill. Testimony
has been received from interested parties, including the Chairman of the PUCO,
consumer groups, utility executives and others. At this time, FirstEnergy cannot
predict the outcome of this process nor determine the impact, if any, such
legislation may have on its operations or those of the Ohio
Companies.


PPUC Rate Matters

Met-Ed
and Penelec have been purchasing a portion of their PLR and default service
requirements from FES through a partial requirements wholesale power sales
agreement and various amendments. Based on the outcome of the 2006 comprehensive
transition rate filing, as described below, Met-Ed, Penelec and FES agreed to
restate the partial requirements power sales agreement effective January 1,
2007. The restated agreement incorporates the same fixed price for residual
capacity and energy supplied by FES as in the prior arrangements between the
parties, and automatically extends for successive one year terms unless any
party gives 60 days notice prior to the end of the year. The restated agreement
also allows Met-Ed and Penelec to sell the output of NUG energy to the market
and requires FES to provide energy at fixed prices to replace any NUG energy
sold to the extent needed for Met-Ed and Penelec to satisfy their PLR and
default service obligations. The fixed price under the restated agreement is
expected to remain below wholesale market prices during the term of the
agreement.

If
Met-Ed and Penelec were to replace the entire FES supply at current market power
prices without corresponding regulatory authorization to increase their
generation prices to customers, each company would likely incur a significant
increase in operating expenses and experience a material deterioration in credit
quality metrics. Under such a scenario, each company's credit profile would no
longer be expected to support an investment grade rating for their fixed income
securities. Based on the PPUCs January 11, 2007 order described below, if FES
ultimately determines to terminate, reduce, or significantly modify the
agreement prior to the expiration of Met-Eds and Penelecs generation rate caps
in 2010, timely regulatory relief is not likely to be granted by the
PPUC.

Met-Ed
and Penelec made a comprehensive transition rate filing with the PPUC on
April 10, 2006 to address a number of transmission, distribution and supply
issues. If Met-Ed's and Penelec's preferred approach involving accounting
deferrals had been approved, annual revenues would have increased by
$216 million and $157 million, respectively. That filing included,
among other things, a request to charge customers for an increasing amount of
market-priced power procured through a CBP as the amount of supply provided
under the then existing FES agreement was to be phased out. Met-Ed and Penelec
also requested approval of a January 12, 2005 petition for the deferral of
transmission-related costs incurred during 2006. In this rate filing, Met-Ed and
Penelec requested recovery of annual transmission and related costs incurred on
or after January 1, 2007, plus the amortized portion of 2006 costs over a
ten-year period, along with applicable carrying charges, through an adjustable
rider. Changes in the recovery of NUG expenses and the recovery of Met-Ed's
non-NUG stranded costs were also included in the filing. On May 4, 2006,
the PPUC consolidated the remand of the FirstEnergy and GPU merger proceeding,
related to the quantification and allocation of merger savings, with the
comprehensive transition rate filing case.

The PPUC
entered its opinion and order in the comprehensive rate filing proceeding on
January 11, 2007. The order approved the recovery of transmission costs,
including the transmission-related deferral for January 1, 2006 through January
10, 2007, and determined that no merger savings from prior years should be
considered in determining customers rates. The request for increases in
generation supply rates was denied as were the requested changes to NUG expense
recovery and Met-Eds non-NUG stranded costs. The order decreased Met-Eds and
Penelecs distribution rates by $80 million and $19 million,
respectively. These decreases were offset by the increases allowed for the
recovery of transmission costs. Met-Eds and Penelecs request for recovery of
Saxton decommissioning costs was granted and, in January 2007, Met-Ed and
Penelec recognized income of $15 million and $12 million,
respectively, to establish regulatory assets for those previously expensed
decommissioning costs. Overall rates increased by 5.0% for Met-Ed
($59 million) and 4.5% for Penelec ($50 million). Met-Ed and Penelec
filed a Petition for Reconsideration on January 26, 2007, on the issues of
consolidated tax savings and rate of return on equity. Other parties filed
Petitions for Reconsideration on transmission (including congestion),
transmission deferrals and rate design issues. On March 1, 2007, the PPUC
issued three orders: (1) a tentative order regarding the reconsideration by the
PPUC of its own order; (2) an order denying the Petitions for Reconsideration of
Met-Ed, Penelec and the OCA and denying in part and accepting in part the MEIUGs
and PICAs Petition for Reconsideration; and (3) an order approving the
compliance filing. Comments to the PPUC for reconsideration of its order were
filed on March 8, 2007, and the PPUC ruled on the reconsideration on
April 13, 2007, making minor changes to rate design as agreed upon by
Met-Ed, Penelec and certain other parties.

On March
30, 2007, MEIUG and PICA filed a Petition for Review with the Commonwealth Court
of Pennsylvania asking the court to review the PPUCs determination on
transmission (including congestion) and the transmission deferral. Met-Ed and
Penelec filed a Petition for Review on April 13, 2007 on the issues of
consolidated tax savings and the requested generation rate
increase.  The OCA filed its Petition for Review on April 13,
2007, on the issues of transmission (including congestion) and recovery of
universal service costs from only the residential rate class. From June through
October 2007, initial responsive and reply briefs were filed by various parties.
Oral arguments are expected to take place on April 7, 2008. If Met-Ed and
Penelec do not prevail on the issue of congestion, it could have a material
adverse effect on the results of operations of Met-Ed, Penelec and
FirstEnergy.


As of
December 31, 2007, Met-Ed's and Penelec's unrecovered regulatory deferrals
pursuant to the 2006 comprehensive transition rate case, the 1998 Restructuring
Settlement (including the Phase 2 proceedings) and the FirstEnergy/GPU Merger
Settlement Stipulation were $512 million and $55 million, respectively.
During the PPUCs annual audit of Met-Eds and Penelecs NUG stranded cost balances
in 2006, it noted a modification to the NUG purchased power stranded cost
accounting methodology made by Met-Ed and Penelec. On August 18, 2006, a PPUC
order was entered requiring Met-Ed and Penelec to reflect the deferred NUG cost
balances as if the stranded cost accounting methodology modification had not
been implemented. As a result of this PPUC order, Met-Ed recognized a pre-tax
charge of approximately $10.3 million in the third quarter of 2006,
representing incremental costs deferred under the revised methodology in 2005.
Met-Ed and Penelec continue to believe that the stranded cost accounting
methodology modification is appropriate and on August 24, 2006 filed a petition
with the PPUC pursuant to its order for authorization to reflect the stranded
cost accounting methodology modification effective January 1, 1999. Hearings on
this petition were held in February 2007 and briefing was completed on March 28,
2007. The ALJs initial decision denied Met-Ed's and Penelecs request to modify
their NUG stranded cost accounting methodology. The companies filed exceptions
to the initial decision on May 23, 2007 and replies to those exceptions were
filed on June 4, 2007. On November 8, 2007, the PPUC issued an order denying any
changes in the accounting methodology for NUGs.

On May
2, 2007, Penn filed a plan with the PPUC for the procurement of default service
supply from June 2008 through May 2011. The filing proposed multiple,
competitive RFPs with staggered delivery periods for fixed-price, tranche-based,
pay as bid default service supply to the residential and commercial classes. The
proposal would phase out existing promotional rates and eliminates the declining
block and the demand components on generation rates for residential and
commercial customers. The industrial class default service would be provided
through an hourly-priced service provided by Penn. Quarterly reconciliation of
the differences between the costs of supply and revenues from customers was also
proposed. On September 28, 2007, Penn filed a Joint Petition for Settlement
resolving all but one issue in the case.  Briefs were also filed on
September 28, 2007 on the unresolved issue of incremental uncollectible accounts
expense.  The settlement was either supported, or not opposed, by all
parties. On December 20, 2007, the PPUC approved the settlement except for the
full requirements tranche approach for residential customers, which was remanded
to the ALJ for hearings.  Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement,
the default service procurement for small commercial customers will be done with
multiple RFPs, while the default service procurement for large commercial and
industrial customers will utilize hourly pricing. Bids in the first RFP for
small commercial load were received on February 20, 2008. In February 2008,
parties filed direct and rebuttal testimony in the remand proceeding for the
residential procurement approach. An evidentiary hearing was held on
February 26, 2008, and this matter will be presented to the PPUC for its
consideration by March 13, 2008.

On
February 1, 2007, the Governor of Pennsylvania proposed an EIS. The EIS includes
four pieces of proposed legislation that, according to the Governor, is designed
to reduce energy costs, promote energy independence and stimulate the economy.
Elements of the EIS include the installation of smart meters, funding for solar
panels on residences and small businesses, conservation and demand reduction
programs to meet energy growth, a requirement that electric distribution
companies acquire power that results in the "lowest reasonable rate on a
long-term basis," the utilization of micro-grids and a three year phase-in of
rate increases. On July 17, 2007 the Governor signed into law two pieces of
energy legislation. The first amended the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards
Act of 2004 to, among other things, increase the percentage of solar energy that
must be supplied at the conclusion of an electric distribution company's
transition period. The second law allows electric distribution companies, at
their sole discretion, to enter into long term contracts with large customers
and to build or acquire interests in electric generation facilities specifically
to supply long-term contracts with such customers. A special legislative session
on energy was convened in mid-September 2007 to consider other aspects of the
EIS. On December 12, 2007, the Pennsylvania Senate passed the Alternative Energy
Investment Act which, as amended, provides over $650 million over ten years to
implement the Governor's proposal.  The bill was then referred to the
House Environmental Resources and Energy Committee where it awaits
consideration.  On February 12, 2008, the Pennsylvania House passed
House Bill 2200 which provides for energy efficiency and demand management
programs and targets as well as the installation of smart meters within ten
years. Other legislation has been introduced to address generation procurement,
expiration of rate caps, conservation and renewable energy.  The final
form of this pending legislation is uncertain. Consequently, FirstEnergy is
unable to predict what impact, if any, such legislation may have on its
operations.

NJBPU Rate Matters

JCP&L
is permitted to defer for future collection from customers the amounts by which
its costs of supplying BGS to non-shopping customers and costs incurred under
NUG agreements exceed amounts collected through BGS and NUGC rates and market
sales of NUG energy and capacity. As of December 31, 2007, the accumulated
deferred cost balance totaled approximately $322 million.


In
accordance with an April 28, 2004 NJBPU order, JCP&L filed testimony on
June 7, 2004 supporting continuation of the current level and duration of
the funding of TMI-2 decommissioning costs by New Jersey customers without a
reduction, termination or capping of the funding. On September 30, 2004,
JCP&L filed an updated TMI-2 decommissioning study. This study resulted in
an updated total decommissioning cost estimate of $729 million (in 2003
dollars) compared to the estimated $528 million (in 2003 dollars) from the prior
1995 decommissioning study. The DRA filed comments on February 28, 2005
requesting that decommissioning funding be suspended. On March 18, 2005,
JCP&L filed a response to those comments. A schedule for further NJBPU
proceedings has not yet been set.

On
August 1, 2005, the NJBPU established a proceeding to determine whether
additional ratepayer protections are required at the state level in light of the
repeal of the PUHCA pursuant to the EPACT. The NJBPU approved regulations
effective October 2, 2006 that prevent a holding company that owns a gas or
electric public utility from investing more than 25% of the combined assets of
its utility and utility-related subsidiaries into businesses unrelated to the
utility industry. These regulations are not expected to materially impact
FirstEnergy or JCP&L. Also, in the same proceeding, the NJBPU Staff issued
an additional draft proposal on March 31, 2006 addressing various issues
including access to books and records, ring-fencing, cross subsidization,
corporate governance and related matters. With the approval of the NJBPU Staff,
the affected utilities jointly submitted an alternative proposal on June 1,
2006. The NJBPU Staff circulated revised drafts of the proposal to interested
stakeholders in November 2006 and again in February 2007. On February 1, 2008,
the NJBPU accepted proposed rules for publication in the New Jersey Register on
March 17, 2008.  An April 23, 2008 public hearing on these proposed
rules is expected to be scheduled with comments from interested parties expected
to be due on May 17, 2008.

New
Jersey statutes require that the state periodically undertake a planning
process, known as the EMP, to address energy related issues including energy
security, economic growth, and environmental impact. The EMP is to be developed
with involvement of the Governor's Office and the Governor's Office of Economic
Growth, and is to be prepared by a Master Plan Committee, which is chaired by
the NJBPU President and includes representatives of several State departments.
In October 2006, the current EMP process was initiated with the issuance of a
proposed set of objectives which, as to electricity, included the
following:

▪

Reduce
      the total projected electricity demand by 20% by
  2020;

▪

Meet
      22.5% of New Jersey's electricity needs with renewable energy resources by
      that date;

▪

Reduce
      air pollution related to energy
use;

▪

Encourage
      and maintain economic growth and
development;

▪

Achieve
      a 20% reduction in both Customer Average Interruption Duration Index and
      System Average Interruption Frequency Index by
  2020;

▪

Maintain
      unit prices for electricity to no more than +5% of the regional average
      price (region includes New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
      Maryland and the District of Columbia);
and

▪

Eliminate
      transmission congestion by 2020.

Comments
on the objectives and participation in the development of the EMP have been
solicited and a number of working groups have been formed to obtain input from a
broad range of interested stakeholders including utilities, environmental
groups, customer groups, and major customers. EMP working groups addressing: (1)
energy efficiency and demand response; (2) renewables; (3) reliability; and (4)
pricing issues, have completed their assigned tasks of data gathering and
analysis and have provided reports to the EMP Committee. Public stakeholder
meetings were held in the fall of 2006 and in early 2007, and further public
meetings are expected in 2008. At this time, FirstEnergy cannot predict the
outcome of this process nor determine the impact, if any, such legislation may
have on its operations or those of JCP&L.

On
February 13, 2007, the NJBPU Staff informally issued a draft proposal relating
to changes to the regulations addressing electric distribution service
reliability and quality standards.  Meetings between the NJBPU Staff
and interested stakeholders to discuss the proposal were held and additional,
revised informal proposals were subsequently circulated by the
Staff.  On September 4, 2007, proposed regulations were published in
the New Jersey Register, which proposal will be subsequently considered by the
NJBPU following comments that were submitted in September and October
2007.  At this time, FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of this
process nor determine the impact, if any, such regulations may have on its
operations or those of JCP&L.


FERC Matters

Transmission Service between MISO and
PJM

On
November 18, 2004, the FERC issued an order eliminating the through and out rate
for transmission service between the MISO and PJM regions. FERC's intent was to
eliminate so-called "pancaking" of transmission charges between the MISO and PJM
regions. The FERC also ordered the MISO, PJM and the transmission owners within
MISO and PJM to submit compliance filings containing a rate mechanism to recover
lost transmission revenues created by elimination of this charge (referred to as
the Seams Elimination Cost Adjustment or "SECA" during a 16-month transition
period. The FERC issued orders in 2005 setting the SECA for hearing. The
presiding judge issued an initial decision on August 10, 2006, rejecting the
compliance filings made by MISO, PJM, and the transmission owners, and directing
new compliance filings. This decision is subject to review and approval by the
FERC. Briefs addressing the initial decision were filed on September 11, 2006
and October 20, 2006. A final order could be issued by the FERC in the first
quarter of 2008.

PJM Transmission Rate
Design

On
January 31, 2005, certain PJM transmission owners made filings with the FERC
pursuant to a settlement agreement previously approved by the FERC. JCP&L,
Met-Ed and Penelec were parties to that proceeding and joined in two of the
filings. In the first filing, the settling transmission owners submitted a
filing justifying continuation of their existing rate design within the PJM RTO.
Hearings were held and numerous parties appeared and litigated various issues
concerning PJM rate design; notably AEP, which proposed to create a "postage
stamp", or average rate for all high voltage transmission facilities across PJM
and a zonal transmission rate for facilities below 345 kV. This proposal would
have the effect of shifting recovery of the costs of high voltage transmission
lines to other transmission zones, including those where JCP&L, Met-Ed, and
Penelec serve load.  The ALJ issued an initial decision directing that
the cost of all PJM transmission facilities, regardless of voltage, should be
recovered through a postage stamp rate.

The
ALJ recommended an April 1, 2006 effective date for this change in rate design.
Numerous parties, including FirstEnergy, submitted briefs opposing the ALJ's
decision and recommendations.  On April 19, 2007, the FERC issued an
order rejecting the ALJ's findings and recommendations in nearly every respect.
The FERC found that the PJM transmission owners' existing "license plate" or
zonal rate design was just and reasonable and ordered that the current license
plate rates for existing transmission facilities be retained. On the issue of
rates for new transmission facilities, the FERC directed that costs for new
transmission facilities that are rated at 500 kV or higher are to be collected
from all transmission zones throughout the PJM footprint by means of a
postage-stamp rate.  Costs for new transmission facilities that are
rated at less than 500 kV, however, are to be allocated on a beneficiary pays
basis.  FERC found that PJM's current "beneficiary-pays" cost
allocation methodology is not sufficiently detailed and, in a related order that
also was issued on April 19, 2007, directed that hearings be held for the
purpose of establishing a just and reasonable cost allocation methodology for
inclusion in PJMs tariff.

On May
18, 2007, certain parties filed for rehearing of the FERCs April 19, 2007
order.  On January 31, 2008, the requests for rehearing were denied.
The FERCs orders on PJM rate design will prevent the allocation of a portion of
the revenue requirement of existing transmission facilities of other utilities
to JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec. In addition, the FERCs decision to allocate
the cost of new 500 kV and above transmission facilities on a PJM-wide basis
will reduce future transmission revenue recovery from the JCP&L, Met-Ed and
Penelec zones. A partial settlement agreement addressing the beneficiary pays
methodology for below 500 kV facilities, but excluding the issue of allocating
new facilities costs to merchant transmission entities, was filed on September
14, 2007. The agreement was supported by the FERCs Trial Staff, and was
certified by the Presiding Judge. The FERCs action on the settlement agreement
is pending. The remaining merchant transmission cost allocation issues will
proceed to hearing in May 2008. On February 13, 2008, AEP appealed the
FERCs orders to the federal Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. The Illinois
Commerce Commission has also appealed these orders.

Post
Transition Period Rate Design

FERC had
directed MISO, PJM, and the respective transmission owners to make filings on or
before August 1, 2007 to reevaluate transmission rate design within the MISO,
and between MISO and PJM.  On August 1, 2007, filings were made by
MISO, PJM, and the vast majority of transmission owners, including FirstEnergy
affiliates, which proposed to retain the existing transmission rate design.
These filings were approved by the FERC on January 31, 2008.  As a
result of FERCs approval, the rates charged to FirstEnergy's load-serving
affiliates for transmission service over existing transmission facilities in
MISO and PJM are unchanged. In a related filing, MISO and MISO transmission
owners requested that the current MISO pricing for new transmission facilities
that spreads 20% of the cost of new 345 kV and higher transmission facilities
across the entire MISO footprint (known as the RECB methodology) be
retained.


Certain
stand-alone transmission companies in MISO made a filing under Section 205 of
the Federal Power Act requesting that 100% of the cost of new qualifying 345 kV
and higher transmission facilities be spread throughout the entire MISO
footprint.  Further, Indianapolis Power and Light Company separately
moved the FERC to reopen the record to address the cost allocation under the
RECB methodology.  FERC rejected these requests in an order issued
January 31, 2008 again maintaining the status quo with respect to allocation of
the cost of new transmission facilities in the MISO.

On
September 17, 2007, AEP filed a complaint under Sections 206 and 306 of the
Federal Power Act seeking to have the entire transmission rate design and cost
allocation methods used by MISO and PJM declared unjust, unreasonable, and
unduly discriminatory, and to have FERC fix a uniform regional transmission rate
design and cost allocation method for the entire MISO and PJM Super Region that
recovers the average cost of new and existing transmission facilities operated
at voltages of 345 kV and above from all transmission
customers.  Lower voltage facilities would continue to be recovered in
the local utility transmission rate zone through a license plate
rate.  AEP requested a refund effective October 1, 2007, or
alternatively, February 1, 2008.  On January 31, 2008, FERC issued an
order denying the complaint.

Distribution of

MISO Network Service
Revenues

Effective
February 1, 2008, the MISO Transmission Owners Agreement provides for a change
in the method of distributing transmission revenues among the transmission
owners.  MISO and a majority of the MISO transmission owners filed on
December 3, 2007 to change the MISO tariff to clarify, for purposes of
distributing network transmission revenue to the transmission owners, that all
network transmission service revenues, whether collected by MISO or directly by
the transmission owner, are included in the revenue distribution
calculation.   This clarification was necessary because some
network transmission service revenues are collected and retained by transmission
owners in states where retail choice does not exist, and their unbundled retail
load is currently exempt from MISO network service charges. The tariff changes
filed with FERC ensure that revenues collected by transmission owners from
bundled load are taken into account in the revenue distribution calculation, and
that transmission owners with bundled load do not collect more than their
revenue requirements.  Absent the changes, transmission owners, and
ultimately their customers, with unbundled load or in retail choice states, such
as ATSI, would subsidize transmission owners with bundled load, who would
collect their revenue requirement from bundled load, plus share in revenues
collected by MISO from unbundled customers. This would result in a large revenue
shortfall for ATSI, which would eventually be passed on to customers in the form
of higher transmission rates as calculated pursuant to ATSIs Attachment O
formula under the MISO tariff.

Numerous
parties filed in support of the tariff changes, including the public service
commissions of Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin. Ameren filed a protest on December
26, 2007, arguing that the December 3 filing violates the MISO Transmission
Owners Agreement as well as an agreement among Ameren (Union Electric), MISO,
and the Missouri Public Service Commission, which provides that Union Electrics
bundled load cannot be charged by MISO for network service.  On
January 31, 2008, FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the tariff
amendment subject to a minor compliance filing.  This order ensures
that ATSI will continue to receive transmission revenues from MISO equivalent to
its transmission revenue requirement.

MISO Ancillary Services Market and
Balancing Area Consolidation

MISO
made a filing on September 14, 2007 to establish Ancillary Services markets for
regulation, spinning and supplemental reserves, to consolidate the existing 24
balancing areas within the MISO footprint, and to establish MISO as the NERC
registered balancing authority for the region.  This filing would
permit load serving entities to purchase their operating reserve requirements in
a competitive market.  An effective date of June 1, 2008 was requested
in the filing.

MISO's
previous filing to establish an Ancillary Services market was rejected without
prejudice by FERC on June 22, 2007, subject to MISO providing an analysis of
market power within its footprint and a plan to ensure reliability during the
consolidation of balancing areas. MISO made a September 14 filing
addressing the FERC's directives. FirstEnergy supports the proposal to establish
markets for Ancillary Services and consolidate existing balancing areas, but
filed objections on specific aspects of the MISO
proposal.  Interventions and protests to MISO's filing were made with
FERC on October 15, 2007.  FERC conducted a technical conference
on certain aspects of the MISO proposal on December 6, 2007, and additional
comments were filed by FirstEnergy and other parties on December 19, 2007. FERC
action is anticipated in the first quarter of 2008.


Duquesne's
Request to Withdraw from PJM

On
November 8, 2007, Duquesne Light Company (Duquesne) filed a request with the
FERC to exit PJM and to join the MISO. In its filing, Duquesne asked FERC to be
relieved of certain capacity payment obligations to PJM for capacity auctions
conducted prior to its departure from PJM, but covering service for planning
periods through May 31, 2010.  Duquesne asserted that its primary
reason for exiting PJM is to avoid paying future obligations created by PJM's
forward capacity market.  FirstEnergy believes that Duquesne's filing
did not identify or address numerous legal, financial or operational issues that
are implicated or affected directly by Duquesne's proposal. Consequently, on
December 4, 2007 and January 3, 2008, FirstEnergy submitted responsive filings
that, while conceding Duquesne's rights to exit PJM, contested various aspects
of Duquesne's proposal.  FirstEnergy particularly focused on
Duquesne's proposal that it be allowed to exit PJM without payment of its share
of existing capacity market commitments. FirstEnergy also objected to Duquesne's
failure to address the firm transmission service requirements that would be
necessary for FirstEnergy to continue to use the Beaver Valley Plant to meet
existing commitments in the PJM capacity markets and to serve native
load.  Additionally, FirstEnergy protested Duquesne's failure to
identify or address a number of legal, financial or operational issues and
uncertainties that may or will result for both PJM and MISO market
participants.  Other market participants also submitted filings
contesting Duquesne's plans.

On
January 17, 2008, the FERC conditionally approved Duquesne's request to exit
PJM.  Among other conditions, FERC obligated Duquesne to pay the PJM
capacity obligations that had accrued prior to January 17,
2008.  Duquesne was given until February 1, 2008 to provide FERC
written notice of its intent to withdraw and Duquesne filed the notice on
February 1

st

.  The
FERCs order took notice of the numerous transmission and other issues raised by
FirstEnergy and other parties to the proceeding, but did not provide any
responsive rulings or other guidance.  Rather, FERC ordered Duquesne
to make a compliance filing in forty-five days from the FERC order (or by March
3, 2008) detailing how Duquesne will satisfy its obligations under the PJM
Transmission Owner's Agreement. The FERC likewise directed the MISO to submit a
compliance filing in forty-five days (or by March 3, 2008) detailing the MISO's
plans to integrate Duquesne into the MISO.  Finally, the FERC directed
MISO and PJM to work together to resolve the substantive and procedural issues
implicated by Duquesne's transition into the MISO.  On February 19,
2008, FirstEnergy asked for clarification or rehearing of certain of the matters
addressed in FERC's January 17, 2008 Order.

MISO
Resource Adequacy Proposal

MISO
made a filing on December 28, 2007 that would create an enforceable planning
reserve requirement in the MISO tariff for load serving entities such as the
Ohio Companies, Penn, and FES. This requirement is proposed to become effective
for the planning year beginning June 1, 2009.  The filing would permit
MISO to establish the reserve margin requirement for load serving entities based
upon a one day loss of load in ten years standard, unless the state utility
regulatory agency establishes a different planning reserve for load serving
entities in its state. FirstEnergy generally supports the proposal as it
promotes a mechanism that will result in long-term commitments from both
load-serving entities and resources, including both generation and demand side
resources, that are necessary for reliable resource adequacy and planning in the
MISO footprint. FirstEnergy does not expect this filing to impose additional
supply costs since its load serving entities in MISO are already bound by
similar planning reserve requirements established by

ReliabilityFirst

Corporation.
Comments on the filing were filed on January 28, 2008. An effective date of June
1, 2009 was requested in the filing, but MISO has requested FERC approval by the
end of the first quarter of 2008.

Organized
Wholesale Power Markets

On February 21,
2008, the FERC issued a NOPR through which it proposes to adopt new rules that
it states will “improve operations in organized electric markets, boost
competition and bring additional benefits to consumers.” The proposed rule
addresses demand response and market pricing during reserve shortages, long-term
power contracting, market-monitoring policies, and responsiveness of RTOs and
ISOs to stakeholders and customers.  FirstEnergy has not yet had an
opportunity to evaluate the impact of the proposed rule on its
operations.


Capital
Requirements

Anticipated
capital expenditures for the Companies, FES and FirstEnergy's other subsidiaries
for the years 2008 through 2012 excluding nuclear fuel, are shown in the
following table. Such costs include expenditures for the betterment of existing
facilities and for the construction of generating capacity, facilities for
environmental compliance, transmission lines, distribution lines, substations
and other assets.


Capital
      Expenditures Forecast

Actual


2009-2012

Total

(In
      millions)

OE

$


$


$


$


Penn





CEI





TE





JCP&L





Met-Ed





Penelec





ATSI





FGCO


1,005

1,316

2,321

NGC




1,019

Other
      subsidiaries





Total

$

1,496

$

2,038

$

5,566

$

7,604

During
the 2008-2012 period, maturities of, and sinking fund requirements for,
long-term debt of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries are:

NGC's
investments for additional nuclear fuel during the 2008-2012 period are
estimated to be approximately $1.4 billion, of which about
$132 million applies to 2008. During the same period, its nuclear fuel
investments are expected to be reduced by approximately $952 million and
$111 million, respectively, as the nuclear fuel is consumed. The following
table displays the Companies' operating lease commitments, net of capital trust
cash receipts for the 2008-2012 period.


FirstEnergy
had approximately $903 million of short-term indebtedness as of
December 31, 2007, comprised of $800 million in borrowings under a
$2.75 billion revolving line of credit and $103 million of other bank
borrowings. Total short-term bank lines of committed credit to FirstEnergy and
the Companies as of December 31, 2007 were approximately
$3.4 billion.

FirstEnergy,
along with certain of its subsidiaries, are party to a $2.75 billion
five-year revolving credit facility. FirstEnergy may request an increase in the
total commitments available under this facility up to a maximum of
$3.25 billion. Commitments under the facility are available until
August 24, 2012, unless the lenders agree, at the request of the Borrowers,
to an unlimited number of additional one-year extensions. Generally, borrowings
under the facility must be repaid within 364 days. Available amounts for each
Borrower are subject to a specified sub-limit, as well as applicable regulatory
and other limitations.  The annual facility fee is
0.125%.

The
revolving credit facility, combined with an aggregate $550 million (unused as of
December 31, 2007) of accounts receivable financing facilities for OE, CEI,
TE, Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn, are intended to provide liquidity to meet working
capital requirements and for other general corporate purposes. Total unused
borrowing capability under existing facilities and accounts receivable financing
facilities totaled $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2007. An additional
source of ongoing cash for FirstEnergy, as a holding company, is cash dividends
and return of capital from its subsidiaries. In 2007, the holding company
received $1.3 billion of cash dividends on common stock and return of
capital from its subsidiaries.

Based on
their present plans, the Companies could provide for their cash requirements in
2008 from the following sources: funds to be received from operations; available
cash and temporary cash investments as of December 31, 2007 (FirstEnergy's
non-utility subsidiaries $128 million and OE $1 million); the issuance
of long-term debt (for refunding purposes); funds from capital markets and funds
available under revolving credit arrangements.

The
extent and type of future financings will depend on the need for external funds
as well as market conditions, the maintenance of an appropriate capital
structure and the ability of the Companies to comply with coverage requirements
in order to issue FMB and preferred stock. The Companies will continue to
monitor financial market conditions and, where appropriate, may take advantage
of economic opportunities to refund debt to the extent that their financial
resources permit.

As of
December 31, 2007, the Ohio Companies and Penn had the aggregate capability to
issue approximately $3.4 billion of additional FMB on the basis of property
additions and retired bonds under the terms of their respective mortgage
indentures. The issuance of FMB by OE, CEI and TE is also subject to provisions
of their senior note indentures generally limiting the incurrence of additional
secured debt, subject to certain exceptions that would permit, among other
things, the issuance of secured debt (including FMB) (i) supporting pollution
control notes or similar obligations, or (ii) as an extension, renewal or
replacement of previously outstanding secured debt. In addition, these
provisions would permit OE, CEI and TE to incur additional secured debt not
otherwise permitted by a specified exception of up to $573 million,
$442 million and $118 million, respectively, as of December 31,
2007. JCP&L satisfied the provision of its senior note indenture for the
release of all FMBs held as collateral for senior notes in May 2007,
subsequently repaid its other remaining FMBs and, effective September 14,
2007, discharged and released its mortgage indenture.

The
applicable earnings coverage tests in the respective charters of OE, TE, Penn
and JCP&L are currently inoperative. In the event that any of them issues
preferred stock in the future, the applicable earnings coverage test will govern
the amount of preferred stock that may be issued. CEI, Met-Ed and Penelec do not
have similar restrictions and could issue up to the number of preferred shares
authorized under their respective charters.

To the
extent that coverage requirements or market conditions restrict the Companies'
abilities to issue desired amounts of FMB or preferred stock, the Companies may
seek other methods of financing. Such financings could include the sale of
preferred and/or preference stock or of such other types of securities as might
be authorized by applicable regulatory authorities which would not otherwise be
sold and could result in annual interest charges and/or dividend requirements in
excess of those that would otherwise be incurred.

As of
December 31, 2007, FirstEnergy had approximately $1.0 billion of remaining
unused capacity under an existing shelf registration statement filed with the
SEC in 2003 to support future securities issuances. The shelf registration
provides the flexibility to issue and sell various types of securities,
including common stock, debt securities, and share purchase contracts and
related share purchase units. As of December 31, 2007, OE had approximately $400
million of capacity remaining unused under a shelf registration for unsecured
debt securities filed with the SEC in 2006.


Nuclear
Operating Licenses

Each of the nuclear
units in the FES portfolio operates under a 40-year operating license granted by
the NRC. FENOC’s application for operating license extensions for Beaver Valley
Units 1 and 2 was accepted by the NRC on November 9, 2007.  Similar
applications are expected to be filed for Davis-Besse in 2010 and Perry in 2013.
The NRC review process takes approximately two to three years from the docketing
of an application. The license extension is for 20 years beyond the current
license period. The following table summarizes operating license expiration
dates for FES’ nuclear facilities in service.

Nuclear
Regulation

On March
2, 2007, the NRC returned the Perry Plant to routine agency oversight as a
result of its assessment of the corrective actions that FENOC has taken over the
last two-and-one-half years. The plant had been operating under heightened NRC
oversight since August 2004.  On May 8, 2007, as a result of a "white"
Emergency AC Power Systems mitigating systems performance indicator, the NRC
notified FENOC that the Perry Plant was being placed in the Regulatory Response
Column (Column 2 of the ROP) and additional inspections would be
conducted.

On May
14, 2007, the Office of Enforcement of the NRC issued a Demand for Information
(DFI) to FENOC, following FENOCs reply to an April 2, 2007 NRC request for
information, about two reports prepared by expert witnesses for an insurance
arbitration (the insurance claim was subsequently withdrawn by FirstEnergy in
December 2007) related to Davis-Besse. The NRC indicated that this information
was needed for the NRC "to determine whether an Order or other action should be
taken pursuant to 10 CFR 2.202, to provide reasonable assurance that FENOC will
continue to operate its licensed facilities in accordance with the terms of its
licenses and the Commissions regulations." FENOC was directed to submit the
information to the NRC within 30 days. On June 13, 2007, FENOC filed a response
to the NRC's Demand for Information reaffirming that it accepts full
responsibility for the mistakes and omissions leading up to the damage to the
reactor vessel head and that it remains committed to operating Davis-Besse and
FirstEnergy's other nuclear plants safely and responsibly. FENOC submitted a
supplemental response clarifying certain aspects of the DFI response to the NRC
on July 16, 2007. On August 15, 2007, the NRC issued a confirmatory
order imposing these commitments. FENOC must inform the NRC's Office of
Enforcement after it completes the key commitments embodied in the NRC's order.
FENOC's compliance with these commitments is subject to future NRC
review.

Nuclear
Insurance

The
Price-Anderson Act limits the public liability which can be assessed with
respect to a nuclear power plant to $10.8 billion (assuming 104 units
licensed to operate) for a single nuclear incident, which amount is covered by:
(i) private insurance amounting to $300 million; and (ii)
$10.5 billion provided by an industry retrospective rating plan required by
the NRC pursuant thereto. Under such retrospective rating plan, in the event of
a nuclear incident at any unit in the United States resulting in losses in
excess of private insurance, up to $100.6 million (but not more than
$15 million per unit per year in the event of more than one incident) must
be contributed for each nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by the
licensees thereof to cover liabilities arising out of the incident. Based on its
present nuclear ownership and leasehold interests, FirstEnergy's maximum
potential assessment under these provisions would be $402.4 million (OE -
$34.4 million, NGC - $349.6 million, and TE - $18.4 million) per
incident but not more than $60 million (OE - $5.1 million, NGC -
$52.1 million, and TE - $2.8 million) in any one year for each
incident.

In
addition to the public liability insurance provided pursuant to the
Price-Anderson Act, FirstEnergy has also obtained insurance coverage in limited
amounts for economic loss and property damage arising out of nuclear incidents.
FirstEnergy is a member of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL) which
provides coverage (NEIL I) for the extra expense of replacement power
incurred due to prolonged accidental outages of nuclear units. Under
NEIL I, FirstEnergy has policies, renewable yearly, corresponding to its
nuclear interests, which provide an aggregate indemnity of up to approximately
$1.96 billion (OE - $168 million, NGC - $1.70 billion, TE -
$89 million) for replacement power costs incurred during an outage after an
initial 20-week waiting period. Members of NEIL I pay annual premiums and
are subject to assessments if losses exceed the accumulated funds available to
the insurer. FirstEnergy's present maximum aggregate assessment for incidents at
any covered nuclear facility occurring during a policy year would be
approximately $18.4 million (OE - $1.6 million, NGC -
$16.0 million, and TE - $0.8 million).


FirstEnergy
is insured under property damage insurance provided by NEIL to the operating
company for each plant. Under these arrangements, up to $2.75 billion of
coverage for decontamination costs, decommissioning costs, debris removal and
repair and/or replacement of property is provided. FirstEnergy pays annual
premiums for this coverage and is liable for retrospective assessments of up to
approximately $62.5 million (OE - $5.9 million, NGC -
$53.4 million, TE - $2.4 million, Met-Ed - $0.4 million, Penelec
- - $0.2 million and JCP&L - $0.2 million) during a policy
year.

FirstEnergy
intends to maintain insurance against nuclear risks as described above as long
as it is available. To the extent that replacement power, property damage,
decontamination, decommissioning, repair and replacement costs and other such
costs arising from a nuclear incident at any of FirstEnergy's plants exceed the
policy limits of the insurance in effect with respect to that plant, to the
extent a nuclear incident is determined not to be covered by FirstEnergy's
insurance policies, or to the extent such insurance becomes unavailable in the
future, FirstEnergy would remain at risk for such costs.

The NRC
requires nuclear power plant licensees to obtain minimum property insurance
coverage of $1.06 billion or the amount generally available from private
sources, whichever is less. The proceeds of this insurance are required to be
used first to ensure that the licensed reactor is in a safe and stable condition
and can be maintained in that condition so as to prevent any significant risk to
the public health and safety. Within 30 days of stabilization, the licensee is
required to prepare and submit to the NRC a cleanup plan for approval. The plan
is required to identify all cleanup operations necessary to decontaminate the
reactor sufficiently to permit the resumption of operations or to commence
decommissioning. Any property insurance proceeds not already expended to place
the reactor in a safe and stable condition must be used first to complete those
decontamination operations that are ordered by the NRC. FirstEnergy is unable to
predict what effect these requirements may have on the availability of insurance
proceeds.

Environmental
Matters

Various
federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and
water quality and other environmental matters. The effects of compliance on
FirstEnergy with regard to environmental matters could have a material adverse
effect on FirstEnergy's earnings and competitive position to the extent that it
competes with companies that are not subject to such regulations and, therefore,
do not bear the risk of costs associated with compliance, or failure to comply,
with such regulations. FirstEnergy estimates capital expenditures for
environmental compliance of approximately $1.4 billion for the period
2008-2012.

FirstEnergy
accrues environmental liabilities only when it concludes that it is probable
that it has an obligation for such costs and can reasonably estimate the amount
of such costs. Unasserted claims are reflected in FirstEnergy's determination of
environmental liabilities and are accrued in the period that they become both
probable and reasonably estimable.

Clean Air Act Compliance

FirstEnergy
is required to meet federally-approved SO


emissions
regulations. Violations of such regulations can result in the shutdown of the
generating unit involved and/or civil or criminal penalties of up to $32,500 for
each day the unit is in violation. The EPA has an interim enforcement policy for
SO


regulations in Ohio that allows for compliance based on a 30-day averaging
period. FirstEnergy believes it is currently in compliance with this policy, but
cannot predict what action the EPA may take in the future with respect to the
interim enforcement policy.

The EPA
Region 5 issued a Finding of Violation and NOV to the Bay Shore Power Plant
dated June 15, 2006, alleging violations to various sections of the Clean Air
Act. FirstEnergy has disputed those alleged violations based on its Clean Air
Act permit, the Ohio SIP and other information provided to the EPA at an August
2006 meeting with the EPA. The EPA has several enforcement options
(administrative compliance order, administrative penalty order, and/or judicial,
civil or criminal action) and has indicated that such option may depend on the
time needed to achieve and demonstrate compliance with the rules alleged to have
been violated. On June 5, 2007, the EPA requested another meeting to
discuss an appropriate compliance program and a disagreement regarding the
opacity limit applicable to the common stack for Bay Shore Units 2, 3 and
4.

FirstEnergy
complies with SO


reduction
requirements under the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 by burning lower-sulfur
fuel, generating more electricity from lower-emitting plants, and/or using
emission allowances. NO

X

reductions
required by the 1990 Amendments are being achieved through combustion controls
and the generation of more electricity at lower-emitting plants. In September
1998, the EPA finalized regulations requiring additional NO

X

reductions
at FirstEnergy's facilities. The EPA's NO

X

Transport
Rule imposes uniform reductions of NO

X

emissions
(an approximate 85% reduction in utility plant NO

X

emissions
from projected 2007 emissions) across a region of nineteen states (including
Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania) and the District of Columbia based
on a conclusion that such NO

X

emissions
are contributing significantly to ozone levels in the eastern United States.
FirstEnergy believes its facilities are also complying with the NO

X

budgets
established under SIPs through combustion controls and post-combustion controls,
including Selective Catalytic Reduction and SNCR systems, and/or using emission
allowances.


On May
22, 2007, FirstEnergy and FGCO received a notice letter, required 60 days prior
to the filing of a citizen suit under the federal Clean Air Act, alleging
violations of air pollution laws at the Bruce Mansfield Plant, including opacity
limitations. Prior to the receipt of this notice, the Plant was subject to a
Consent Order and Agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection concerning opacity emissions under which efforts to achieve
compliance with the applicable laws will continue. On October 16, 2007,
PennFuture filed a complaint, joined by three of its members, in the United
States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. On January 11,
2008, FirstEnergy filed a motion to dismiss claims alleging a public nuisance.

FGCO is not
required to respond to other claims until the Court rules on this motion to
dismiss.

On
December 18, 2007, the state of New Jersey filed a Clean Air Act citizen suit
alleging new source review violations at the Portland Generation Station against
Reliant (the current owner and operator), Sithe Energy (the purchaser of the
Portland Station from Met-Ed in 1999), GPU, Inc. and
Met-Ed.  Specifically, New Jersey alleges that "modifications" at
Portland Units 1 and 2 occurred between 1980 and 1995 without preconstruction
new source review or permitting required by the Clean Air Act's prevention of
significant deterioration program, and seeks injunctive relief, penalties,
attorney fees and mitigation of the harm caused by excess
emissions.  Although it remains liable for civil or criminal penalties
and fines that may be assessed relating to events prior to the sale of the
Portland Station in 1999, Met-Ed is indemnified by Sithe Energy against any
other liability arising under the CAA whether it arises out of pre-1999 or
post-1999 events.

National Ambient Air Quality
Standards

In March 2005,
the EPA finalized the CAIR covering a total of 28 states (including Michigan,
New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania) and the District of Columbia based on
proposed findings that air emissions from 28 eastern states and the District of
Columbia significantly contribute to non-attainment of the NAAQS for fine
particles and/or the "8-hour" ozone NAAQS in other states. CAIR requires
reductions of NO

X

and
SO


emissions in two phases (Phase I in 2009 for NO

X

, 2010 for
SO


and Phase II in 2015 for both NO

X

and
SO


).
FirstEnergy's Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania fossil generation facilities will
be subject to caps on SO


and
NO

X

emissions, whereas its New Jersey fossil generation facility will be subject to
only a cap on NO

X

emissions.
According to the EPA, SO


emissions
will be reduced by 45% (from 2003 levels) by 2010 across the states covered by
the rule, with reductions reaching 73% (from 2003 levels) by 2015, capping
SO


emissions in affected states to just 2.5 million tons annually. NO

X

emissions
will be reduced by 53% (from 2003 levels) by 2009 across the states covered by
the rule, with reductions reaching 61% (from 2003 levels) by 2015, achieving a
regional NO

X

cap of 1.3
million tons annually. CAIR has been challenged in the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia. The future cost of compliance with these
regulations may be substantial and may depend on the outcome of this litigation
and how CAIR is ultimately implemented.

Mercury Emissions

In December 2000,
the EPA announced it would proceed with the development of regulations regarding
hazardous air pollutants from electric power plants, identifying mercury as the
hazardous air pollutant of greatest concern. In March 2005, the EPA finalized
the CAMR, which provides a cap-and-trade program to reduce mercury emissions
from coal-fired power plants in two phases; initially, capping national mercury
emissions at 38 tons by 2010 (as a "co-benefit" from implementation of
SO


and NO

X

emission
caps under the EPA's CAIR program) and 15 tons per year by 2018. Several states
and environmental groups appealed CAMR to the United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia, which on February 8, 2008, vacated CAMR ruling that
the EPA failed to take the necessary steps to “de-list” coal-fired power plants
from its hazardous air pollutant program and, therefore, could not promulgate a
cap and trade program.  The EPA must now seek judicial review of that
ruling or take regulatory action to promulgate new mercury emission standards
for coal-fired power plants. FGCO’s future cost of compliance with mercury
regulations may be substantial and will depend on the action taken by the EPA
and on how they are ultimately implemented.

Pennsylvania
has submitted a new mercury rule for EPA approval that does not provide a
cap-and-trade approach as in the CAMR, but rather follows a command-and-control
approach imposing emission limits on individual sources. It is anticipated that
compliance with these regulations, if approved by the EPA and implemented, would
not require the addition of mercury controls at the Bruce Mansfield Plant,
FirstEnergy's only Pennsylvania coal-fired power plant, until 2015, if at
all.

W. H. Sammis Plant

In 1999 and 2000,
the EPA issued an NOV and the DOJ filed a civil complaint against OE and Penn
based on operation and maintenance of the W.H. Sammis Plant (Sammis NSR
Litigation) and filed similar complaints involving 44 other U.S. power plants.
This case, along with seven other similar cases, are referred to as the New
Source Review (NSR) cases.


On March
18, 2005, OE and Penn announced that they had reached a settlement with the EPA,
the DOJ and three states (Connecticut, New Jersey and New York) that resolved
all issues related to the Sammis NSR litigation. This settlement agreement,
which is in the form of a consent decree, was approved by the court on July 11,
2005, and requires reductions of NO

X

and
SO


emissions at the Sammis, Burger, Eastlake and Mansfield coal-fired plants
through the installation of pollution control devices and provides for
stipulated penalties for failure to install and operate such pollution controls
in accordance with that agreement. Consequently, if FirstEnergy fails to install
such pollution control devices, for any reason, including, but not limited to,
the failure of any third-party contractor to timely meet its delivery
obligations for such devices, FirstEnergy could be exposed to penalties under
the Sammis NSR Litigation consent decree. Capital expenditures necessary to
complete requirements of the Sammis NSR Litigation consent decree are currently
estimated to be $1.3 billion for 2008-2012 ($650 million of which is
expected to be spent during 2008, with the largest portion of the remaining
$650 million expected to be spent in 2009). This amount is included in the
estimated capital expenditures for environmental compliance referenced
above.

The
Sammis NSR Litigation consent decree also requires FirstEnergy to spend up to
$25 million toward environmentally beneficial projects, $14 million of
which is satisfied by entering into 93 MW (or 23 MW if federal tax credits are
not applicable) of wind energy purchased power agreements with a 20-year term.
An initial 16 MW of the 93 MW consent decree obligation was satisfied
during 2006.

On
August 26, 2005, FGCO entered into an agreement with Bechtel Power Corporation,
or Bechtel, under which Bechtel will engineer, procure and construct AQC systems
for the reduction of SO


emissions.  FGCO also entered into an agreement with Babcock &
Wilcox Company, or B&W, on August 25, 2006 to supply flue gas
desulfurization systems for the reduction of SO


emissions.  SCR systems for the reduction of NO

X

emissions
are also being installed at the Sammis Plant under a 1999 Agreement with
B&W.

On
April 2, 2007, the United States Supreme Court ruled that changes in annual
emissions (in tons/year) rather than changes in hourly emissions rate (in
kilograms/hour) must be used to determine whether an emissions increase triggers
NSR. Subsequently, on May 8, 2007, the EPA proposed to change the NSR
regulations to utilize changes in the hourly emission rate (in kilograms/hour)
to determine whether an emissions increase triggers NSR. The EPA has not yet
issued a final regulation.

FGCO’s future cost
of compliance with those regulations may be substantial and will depend on how
they are ultimately implemented.

Climate Change

In
December 1997, delegates to the United Nations' climate summit in Japan adopted
an agreement, the Kyoto Protocol, to address global warming by reducing the
amount of man-made GHG emitted by developed countries by 2012. The United States
signed the Kyoto Protocol in 1998 but it failed to receive the two-thirds vote
required for ratification by the United States Senate. However, the Bush
administration has committed the United States to a voluntary climate change
strategy to reduce domestic GHG intensity - the ratio of emissions to economic
output - by 18% through 2012. In addition, the EPACT established a Committee on
Climate Change Technology to coordinate federal climate change activities and
promote the development and deployment of GHG reducing
technologies.

There
are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the
federal, state and international level.  At the international level,
efforts to reach a new global agreement to reduce GHG emissions post-2012 have
begun with the Bali Roadmap, which outlines a two-year process designed to lead
to an agreement in 2009.  At the federal level, members of Congress
have introduced several bills seeking to reduce emissions of GHG in the United
States, and the Senate Environmental and Public Works Committees have passed one
such bill. State activities, primarily the northeastern states participating in
the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and western states led by California,
have coordinated efforts to develop regional strategies to control emissions of
certain GHGs.

On April
2, 2007, the United States Supreme Court found that the EPA has the authority to
regulate CO


emissions
from automobiles as "air pollutants" under the Clean Air Act. Although this
decision did not address CO


emissions
from electric generating plants, the EPA has similar authority under the Clean
Air Act to regulate "air pollutants" from those and other
facilities.

FirstEnergy
cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies,
although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO


emissions
could require significant capital and other expenditures. The CO


emissions
per KWH of electricity generated by FirstEnergy is lower than many regional
competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or
non-CO


emitting
gas-fired and nuclear generators.


Clean Water Act

Various
water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal
Clean Water Act and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergy's plants. In addition,
Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have water quality standards applicable to
FirstEnergy's operations. As provided in the Clean Water Act, authority to grant
federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System water discharge permits
can be assumed by a state. Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have assumed such
authority.

On
September 7, 2004, the EPA established new performance standards under
Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish
from cooling water intake structures at certain existing large electric
generating plants. The regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality
(when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling
water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn
into a facility's cooling water system). On January 26, 2007, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit remanded portions of the rulemaking
dealing with impingement mortality and entrainment back to the EPA for further
rulemaking and eliminated the restoration option from the EPAs regulations. On
July 9, 2007, the EPA suspended this rule, noting that until further rulemaking
occurs, permitting authorities should continue the existing practice of applying
their best professional judgment (BPJ) to minimize impacts on fish and shellfish
from cooling water intake structures. FirstEnergy is evaluating various control
options and their costs and effectiveness. Depending on the outcome of such
studies, the EPAs further rulemaking and any action taken by the states
exercising BPJ, the future cost of compliance with these standards may require
material capital expenditures.

Regulation of Hazardous
Waste

As a
result of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and
the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, federal and state hazardous waste
regulations have been promulgated. Certain fossil-fuel combustion waste
products, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal
requirements pending the EPA's evaluation of the need for future regulation. The
EPA subsequently determined that regulation of coal ash as a hazardous waste is
unnecessary. In April 2000, the EPA announced that it will develop national
standards regulating disposal of coal ash under its authority to regulate
non-hazardous waste.

Under
NRC regulations, FirstEnergy must ensure that adequate funds will be available
to decommission its nuclear facilities.  As of December 31, 2007,
FirstEnergy had approximately $1.5 billion invested in external trusts to
be used for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of Davis-Besse,
Beaver Valley and Perry.  As part of the application to the NRC to
transfer the ownership of these nuclear facilities to NGC in 2005, FirstEnergy
agreed to contribute another $80 million to these trusts by 2010. Consistent
with NRC guidance, utilizing a real rate of return on these funds of
approximately 2% over inflation, these trusts are expected to exceed the minimum
decommissioning funding requirements set by the NRC. Conservatively, these
estimates do not include any rate of return that the trusts may earn over the
20-year plant useful life extensions that FirstEnergy (and Exelon for TMI-1 as
it relates to the timing of the decommissioning of TMI-2) seeks for these
facilities.

The
Companies have been named as PRPs at waste disposal sites, which may require
cleanup under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act of 1980. Allegations of disposal of hazardous substances at
historical sites and the liability involved are often unsubstantiated and
subject to dispute; however, federal law provides that all PRPs for a particular
site may be liable on a joint and several basis. Therefore, environmental
liabilities that are considered probable have been recognized on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2007, based on estimates of the
total costs of cleanup, the Companies' proportionate responsibility for such
costs and the financial ability of other unaffiliated entities to pay. In
addition, JCP&L has accrued liabilities of approximately $56 million
for environmental remediation of former manufactured gas plants in New Jersey;
those costs are being recovered by JCP&L through a non-bypassable SBC. Total
liabilities of approximately $93 million have been accrued through December
31, 2007.

Fuel
Supply

FirstEnergy
currently has long-term coal contracts with various terms to provide
approximately 23.6 million tons of coal for the year 2008, sufficient to
meet 2008 coal requirements of 23.6 million tons. This contract coal is produced
primarily from mines located in Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Wyoming, West Virginia
and Ohio. The contracts expire at various times through December 31, 2028.
See Environmental Matters for factors pertaining to meeting environmental
regulations affecting coal-fired generating units.


FirstEnergy
is contracted for all uranium requirements through 2009 and a portion of uranium
material requirements through 2014. Conversion services contracts fully cover
requirements through 2010 and partially fill requirements through 2015.
Enrichment services are contracted for all of the enrichment requirements for
nuclear fuel through 2013. A portion of enrichment requirements is also
contracted for through 2020. Fabrication services for fuel assemblies are
contracted for both Beaver Valley units and Davis Besse through 2013 and through
the operating license period for Perry (through approximately 2026). The
Davis-Besse fabrication contract also has an extension provision for services
for three additional consecutive reload batches through the current operating
license period (approximately 2017). In addition to the existing commitments,
FirstEnergy intends to make additional arrangements for the supply of uranium
and for the subsequent conversion, enrichment, fabrication, and waste disposal
services.

On-site
spent fuel storage facilities are expected to be adequate for Perry through
2011; facilities at Beaver Valley Units 1 and 2 are expected to be adequate
through 2015 and 2008, respectively. With the plant modifications completed in
2002, Davis-Besse has adequate storage through the remainder of its current
operating license period. After current on-site storage capacity is exhausted,
additional storage capacity will have to be obtained either through plant
modifications, interim off-site disposal, or permanent waste disposal
facilities. FENOC has submitted a License Amendment Request (LAR) to the NRC to
revise the criticality analysis for the spent fuel storage racks at Beaver
Valley Unit 2. When this LAR is approved, several storage locations that are
currently required to remain empty will be made available for spent fuel
storage, thus providing sufficient storage capacity until early 2011. FENOC
expects the NRC to approve the LAR in March 2008. FENOC is also currently taking
actions to extend the spent fuel storage capacity for Perry.

The
Federal Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 provides for the construction of
facilities for the permanent disposal of high-level nuclear wastes, including
spent fuel from nuclear power plants operated by electric utilities. CEI, TE, OE
and Penn have contracts with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for the
disposal of spent fuel for Beaver Valley, Davis-Besse and Perry. On
February 15, 2002, President Bush approved the DOEs recommendation of Yucca
Mountain for underground disposal of spent nuclear fuel from nuclear power
plants and high level waste from U.S. defense programs. The approval by
President Bush enables the process to proceed to the licensing phase. Based on
the DOE schedule published on July 19, 2006, the Yucca Mountain Repository is
currently projected to start receiving spent fuel in 2017. The Companies intend
to make additional arrangements for storage capacity as a contingency for
further delays with the DOE acceptance of spent fuel for disposal past
2017.

Fuel oil and natural
gas are used primarily to fuel peaking units and to ignite the burners prior to
burning coal when a coal-fired plant is restarted. Fuel oil requirements have
historically been low and are forecast to remain so, expected to average
approximately 5 million gallons per year over the next five years. Since
the price and supply risk associated with fuel oil procurement is perceived to
be low compared to the overall FES generating fleet fuel requirements, most fuel
oil is purchased through annual contracts at market prices. Natural gas is
consumed primarily by the peaking units, and the demand is forecasted to range
from approximately 2.8 million cubic feet (Mcf) in 2006 to 5.8 Mcf in 2008.
Because of the relatively high price volatility and unpredictability of unit
dispatch, natural gas is typically purchased for the current year based on
forecasted demand, and sold daily when the units do not run or supplemented by
additional gas purchases on days that the units run at dispatch levels that are
above planned usage.

System
Capacity and Reserves

The 2007
net maximum hourly demand for each of the Companies was: OE-5,955 MW on
August 8, 2007; Penn-1,082 MW on August 24, 2007; CEI-4,471 MW on
August 24, 2007; TE-2,200 MW on August 2, 2007; JCP&L-6,152 MW on
August 8, 2007; Met-Ed-2,934 MW on August 8, 2007; and Penelec-2,895 MW on
February 5, 2007

.

Based on existing
capacity plans, ongoing arrangements for firm purchase contracts and anticipated
term power sales and purchases, FirstEnergy has sufficient supply resources to
meet load obligations. The current FirstEnergy capacity portfolio of 14,127 MW
consists of 13,664 MW of owned or leased generation and 463 MW of generation
from our 20.5% ownership of OVEC.  In addition, FirstEnergy has
1,334 MW of long-term purchases from Pennsylvania and New Jersey NUGs and
has entered into 215 MW of long-term purchase contracts for renewable
energy from wind resources. Any remaining load obligations will be met through a
mix of multi-year forward purchases, short-term forward purchases (less than one
year) and spot market purchases. FirstEnergy's sources of generation during 2007
were 62% non-nuclear and 38% nuclear.

Regional
Reliability

FirstEnergy's
operating companies in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey within MISO and PJM
operate under the reliability oversight of a regional entity known as
Reliability

First

. This
regional entity operates under the oversight of the NERC in accordance with a
Delegation Agreement approved by the FERC. Reliability

First

began operations under
NERC on January 1, 2006. Subsequently on July 20, 2006, NERC was certified by
FERC as the ERO in the United States pursuant to Section 215 of the Federal
Power Act and Reliability

First

was certified as a regional entity. Reliability

First

represents the
consolidation of the ECAR, Mid-Atlantic Area Council, and Mid-American
Interconnected Network reliability councils into a single new regional
reliability organization.


Competition

As a
result of actions taken by state legislative bodies, major changes in the
electric utility business have occurred in parts of the United States, including
Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania where FirstEnergy's utility subsidiaries
operate. These changes have altered the way traditional integrated utilities
conduct their business. In accordance with the Ohio electric utility
restructuring law under which Ohio electric customers could begin choosing their
electric generation suppliers starting in January 2001, FirstEnergy has further
aligned its business units to accommodate its retail strategy and participate in
the competitive electricity marketplace in Ohio. The structural changes deal
with the unbundling of electric utility services and new ways of conducting
business. FirstEnergy's Competitive Energy Services segment participates in
deregulated energy markets in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Michigan through
FES.

Competition
in Ohio's electric generation market began on January 1, 2001. Pursuant to
the generation asset transfers on October 24, 2005 and December 16, 2005, FGCO
and NGC own or lease all of the fossil and nuclear generation assets,
respectively, previously owned by the Ohio Companies and Penn, and FENOC
continues to operate those companies respective nuclear leasehold interests. The
Ohio Companies continue to obtain their PLR and default service requirements
through power supply agreements with FES. JCP&Ls obligation to provide BGS
has been transferred through a transitional mechanism of auctioning the
obligation (see NJBPU Rate Matters). Met-Ed and Penelec have been purchasing a
portion of their PLR and default service requirements from FES through a partial
requirements wholesale power sales agreement and various amendments. Under these
agreements, FES retained the supply obligation and the supply profit and loss
risk for the portion of power supply requirements not self-supplied by Met-Ed
and Penelec. The FES agreements have reduced Met-Ed's and Penelec's exposure to
high wholesale power prices by providing power at a fixed price for their
uncommitted PLR and default service capacity and energy requirements during the
term of these agreements with FES (see PPUC Rate Matters for further
discussion).

On May
2, 2007, Penn filed a plan with the PPUC for the procurement of default service
supply from June 2008 through May 2011. The filing proposes multiple,
competitive RFPs with staggered delivery periods for fixed-price, tranche-based,
pay as bid default service supply to the residential and commercial classes. The
proposal phases out existing promotional rates and eliminates the declining
block and the demand components on generation rates for residential and
commercial customers. The industrial class default service will be provided
through an hourly-priced service provided by Penn (see PPUC Rate Matters for
further discussion).

Research
and Development

The
Companies participate in funding EPRI, which was formed for the purpose of
expanding electric research and development under the voluntary sponsorship of
the nations electric utility industry - public, private and
cooperative. Its goal is to mutually benefit utilities and their customers by
promoting the development of new and improved technologies to help the utility
industry meet present and future electric energy needs in environmentally and
economically acceptable ways. EPRI conducts research on all aspects of electric
power production and use, including fuels, generation, delivery, energy
management and conservation, environmental effects and energy analysis. The
major portion of EPRI research and development projects is directed toward
practical solutions and their applications to problems currently facing the
electric utility industry.


Executive
Officers

(A)
Denotes executive officers of OE, CEI and TE.

(B)
Denotes executive officers of Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn Power.

(C)
Denotes executive officer of JCP&L.

(D)
Denotes executive officers of FES.

(

E) Effective March 2, 2008,
elected Executive Vice President, Strategic Planning and
Operations.

(F) Effective
March 2, 2008, elected Executive Vice President and President, FirstEnergy
Utilities.

(G) Effective
March 2, 2008, elected Executive Vice President and President, FirstEnergy
Generation.

(H) Effective
March 2, 2008, elected Executive Vice President and General
Counsel.

*  Indicates
position held at least since January 1, 2003.


Effective
March 2, 2008, Mr. Richard R. Grigg, who previously was Executive Vice President
and Chief Operating Officer, was elected Executive Vice President and President,
FirstEnergy Utilities.  Also, effective March 2, 2008, Mr. Gary R.
Leidich was elected Executive Vice President and President, FirstEnergy
Generation.

Employees

As of
January 1, 2008, FirstEnergy's subsidiaries had a total of 14,534 employees
located in the United States as follows:

FESC

3,318

OE

1,318

CEI

1,021

TE


Penn


JCP&L

1,482

Met-Ed


Penelec


ATSI


FES


FGCO

1,942

FENOC

2,821

Total

14,534

Of the
above employees 6,720 (including 257 for FESC; 774 for OE; 672 for CEI; 323 for
TE; 165 for Penn; 1,126 for JCP&L; 534 for Met-Ed; 655 for Penelec; 1,249
for FGCO; and 965 for FENOC) are covered by collective bargaining
agreements.

JCP&L's
bargaining unit employees filed a grievance challenging JCP&L's 2002
call-out procedure that required bargaining unit employees to respond to
emergency power outages. On May 20, 2004, an arbitration panel concluded
that the call-out procedure violated the parties' collective bargaining
agreement. At the conclusion of the June 1, 2005 hearing, the arbitration
panel decided not to hear testimony on damages and closed the proceedings. On
September 9, 2005, the arbitration panel issued an opinion to award
approximately $16 million to the bargaining unit employees. On February 6,
2006, a federal district court granted a union motion to dismiss, as premature,
a JCP&L appeal of the award filed on October 18, 2005. A final order
identifying the individual damage amounts was issued on October 31,
2007.  The award appeal process was initiated.  The union
filed a motion with the federal court to confirm the award and JCP&L filed
its answer and counterclaim to vacate the award on December 31,
2007.  The court is expected to issue a briefing schedule at its April
2008 scheduling conference. JCP&L recognized a liability for the potential
$16 million award in 2005.

The union employees
at the Bruce Mansfield Plant have been working without a labor contract since
February 15, 2008. The parties are continuing to bargain with the assistance of
a federal mediator. FirstEnergy has a strike mitigation plan ready in the event
of a strike.

FirstEnergy
Web Site

Each of
the registrants' Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or
furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are also made available free of charge on or through
FirstEnergy's internet Web site at www.firstenergycorp.com. These reports are
posted on the Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
electronically filed with the SEC. Information contained on FirstEnergy's Web
site shall not be deemed incorporated into, or be part of, this
report.

ITEM
      1A.

RISK
      FACTORS

We
operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which
are beyond our control. Below, we have identified risks we currently consider
material. However, our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of
operations could be affected materially and adversely by additional risks not
currently known to us or that we deem immaterial at this time. Additional
information on risk factors is included in "Item 1. Business" and "Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and in other sections of this Form 10-K that include forward-looking
and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our
business and financial results.


Risks Related to Business
Operations

Risks
Arising from the Reliability of Our Power Plants and Transmission and
Distribution Equipment

Operation
of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including
the potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, accidents, labor
disputes or work stoppages by unionized employees, acts of terrorism or
sabotage, and performance below expected levels. In addition, weather-related
incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and
distribution delivery systems. Because our transmission facilities are
interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of those facilities
could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on
the systems of such third parties.

Operation
of our power plants below expected capacity levels could result in lost revenues
or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs. Unplanned outages may
require us to incur significant replacement power costs. Also, when planned
outages last longer than anticipated, capacity factors decrease and we face
lower margins due to higher replacement energy costs and/or lower energy
sales.  Moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual
obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result. FES, FGCO and the
Ohio Companies are exposed to losses under their applicable sale-leaseback
arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent
events that could render those facilities worthless. Although we believe these
types of events are unlikely to occur, FES, FGCO and the Ohio Companies have a
maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.3 billion
for FES and $800 million for each of the Ohio Companies.

We
remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our
franchised service territories. Meeting this commitment requires the expenditure
of significant capital resources. Failure to provide safe and reliable service
and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors,
including equipment failure and weather, could adversely affect our operating
results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and
the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory
outcomes.

Changes
in Commodity Prices Could Adversely Affect Our Profit Margins

While
much of our generation currently serves customers under retail rates set by
regulatory bodies, we also purchase and sell electricity in the competitive
wholesale and retail markets. Increases in the costs of fuel for our generation
facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit
margins in both competitive and non-competitive markets. Changes in the market
prices of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs
and other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial position
by increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to supply PLR and default
service obligations in Ohio and Pennsylvania.

Electricity
and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of
time for a variety of reasons, including:

▪

changing
      weather conditions or seasonality;

▪

changes
      in electricity usage by our
customers;

▪

illiquidity
      in wholesale power and other
markets;

▪

transmission
      congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or
      inefficiencies;

▪

availability
      of competitively priced alternative energy
  sources;

▪

changes
      in supply and demand for energy
commodities;

▪

changes
      in power production capacity;

▪

outages
      at our power production facilities or those of our
      competitors;

▪

changes
      in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil
      and refined products; and

▪

natural
      disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other
      catastrophic events.


We
Are Exposed to Operational, Price and Credit Risks Associated With Selling and
Marketing Products in the Power Markets That We Do Not Always Completely Hedge
Against

We
purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based tariffs
authorized by the FERC, and also enter into short-term agreements to sell
available energy and capacity from our generation assets. If we are unable to
deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to
pay damages. These damages would generally be based on the difference between
the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract
price of the undelivered capacity or energy. Depending on price volatility in
the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant

.

Extreme weather conditions,
unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could
affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market
price of replacement capacity and energy.

We
attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales
arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy
our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm
transmission service. We also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and
power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements
and other energy-related commodities. We may not, however, hedge the entire
exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do
not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and
financial position could be negatively affected.

The
Use of Derivative Contracts by Us to Mitigate Risks Could Result in Financial
Losses that may Negatively Impact our Financial Results

We use a
variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options,
futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In the
absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external
sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves
management's judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the
underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the
reported fair value of some of these contracts.  Also, we could
recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of
these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform.

Our
Risk Management Policies Relating to Energy and Fuel Prices, and Counterparty
Credit are by Their Very Nature Risk Related, and We Could Suffer Economic
Losses Despite Such Policies

We attempt
to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy and fuel and debt
positions. Procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance
with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and
market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis
and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. Nonetheless,
we cannot economically hedge against all of our exposures in these areas and our
risk management

program
may not operate as

planned. For instance, actual electricity and fuel
prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical
trends and assumptions upon which we based our risk management positions. Also,
our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given
day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other
unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher
prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts. In addition, the
amount of fuel required for our power plants

during

a given day or
time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy
additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel
contracts. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk
management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or
costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge.

We also face credit
risks from parties with whom we contract which could default in their
performance, in which cases we could be forced to sell our power into a
lower-priced market or make purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at
the time of executing the contract. Although we have established risk

management policies and
programs, including credit policies to evaluate counterparty credit risk, there
can be no assurance that we will be able to fully meet our obligations, that we
will not be required to p

ay damages for failure to perform or that we
will not experience counterparty non-performance

or that we will collect
for voided contracts. If counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform,
we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor
underlying commitments at then-current market prices. In that event, our
financial results could be adversely affected.


Nuclear
Generation Involves Risks that Include Uncertainties Relating to Health and
Safety, Additional Capital Costs, the Adequacy of Insurance Coverage and Nuclear
Plant Decommissioning

FirstEnergy
is subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the
following:

▪

the
      potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting
      from certain unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation
      of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of
      radioactive materials;

▪

limitations
      on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover
      losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those
      of others in the United States;

▪

uncertainties
      with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is
      inadequate; and

▪

uncertainties
      with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning
      nuclear plants at the end of their licensed
  operation.

The NRC
has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and
safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities.
In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and/or
shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the
situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated
by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants,
including ours.

FirstEnergy's
nuclear facilities are insured under NEIL policies issued for each plant. Under
these policies, up to $2.8 billion of insurance coverage is provided for
property damage and decontamination and decommissioning costs. We have also
obtained approximately $2.0 billion of insurance coverage for replacement power
costs. Under these policies, we can be assessed a maximum of approximately $81
million for incidents at any covered nuclear facility occurring during a policy
year that are in excess of accumulated funds available to the insurer for paying
losses.

The
Price-Anderson Act limits the public liability which can be assessed with
respect to a nuclear power plant to $10.8 billion (assuming 104 units licensed
to operate in the United States) for a single nuclear incident, which amount is
covered by:  (i) private insurance amounting to $300.0 million; and
(ii) $10.5 billion provided by an industry retrospective rating plan. Under such
retrospective rating plan, in the event of a nuclear incident at any unit in the
United States resulting in losses in excess of private insurance, up to $100.6
million (but not more than $15.0 million per year) must be contributed for each
nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by the licensees thereof to
cover liabilities arising out of the incident. Based on our present nuclear
ownership, the maximum potential assessment under these provisions would be
$402.4 million per incident but not more than $60.0 million in any one
year.

Capital
Market Performance and Other Changes May Decrease the Value of Decommissioning
Trust Fund, Pension Fund Assets and Other Trust Funds Which Then Could Require
Significant Additional Funding

The
performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are
held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission our nuclear plants,
to pay pensions to our retired employees and to pay other obligations. These
assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns,
which may fall below our projected return rates. For example, certain
investments within our nuclear decommissioning, pension and other postretirement
benefit trusts hold underlying credit market securities, including subprime
mortgage-related assets. Due to recent market developments, including a series
of rating agency downgrades of subprime mortgage-related assets, the fair value
of these subprime-related investments has declined. We expect the market to
continue to evolve, and that the fair value of our subprime-related investments
may frequently change. A decline in the market value of the assets may increase
the funding requirements of these obligations. Forecasting investment earnings
and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pensions
and other obligations requires significant judgment, and actual results may
differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, if the investments held
by our nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension funds and other trust investments
are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of our nuclear plants or to fund
pension and other obligations, we may be required to provide other means of
funding those obligations.  If we are unable to successfully manage
those trust funds our results of operation and financial position could be
negatively affected.

We
Could be Subject to Higher Costs and/or Penalties Related to Mandatory NERC/FERC
Reliability Standards

As a
result of the EPACT, owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system
are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and approved
by FERC. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to
ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. Compliance with new
reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased
capital expenditures. If we were found not to be in compliance with the
mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including
substantial monetary penalties.


We
Rely on Transmission and Distribution Assets that we do not Own or Control to
Deliver Our Wholesale Electricity. If Transmission is Disrupted Including Our
Own Transmission, or not Operated Efficiently, or if Capacity is Inadequate, Our
Ability to Sell and Deliver Power may be Hindered

We
depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by
utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. If
transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other
reasons) or not operated efficiently by independent system operators, in
applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and
deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we
may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms.

Demand
for electricity within our service areas could stress available transmission
capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may
increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to results
of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over
transmission capacity could result in MISO, PJM or the FERC requiring us to
upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital
expenditures.

The FERC
requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an
open-access, non-discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed
to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is
possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be
available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to
transmit electricity as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry
changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission
facilities in specific markets or whether independent system operators in
applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related
services, efficiently.

Disruptions
in Our Fuel Supplies Could Occur, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to
Operate Our Generation Facilities and Impact Financial Results

We purchase fuel
from a number of suppliers. The lack of availability of fuel at expected prices,
or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our
on-site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather,
increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or
environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an
adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in
lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of
operations. Operation of many of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly
dependent on our ability to procure coal. Although we have long-term contracts
in place for our coal and coal transportation needs, power generators in the
Midwest and the Northeast have experienced significant pressures on available
coal supplies that are either transportation or supply related. If prices for
physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows could be materially adversely
affected.

Seasonal
Temperature Variations, as well as Weather Conditions or other Natural Disasters
Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Demand
Significantly Below or Above our Forecasts Could Adversely Affect our Energy
Margins

Weather
conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. In our service
areas, demand for power generally peaks during the summer months, with market
prices also typically peaking at that time. As a result, overall operating
results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. In addition, we have
historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when
weather conditions are milder. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes,
ice or snow storms or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and
property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally
not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the
failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be
particularly burdensome during a peak demand period.

Customer
demand that we satisfy pursuant to our default service tariffs could increase as
a result of severe weather conditions, economic development or other
circumstances over which we have no control. We satisfy our electricity supply
obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our
generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. A significant
increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required
under the terms of the default service tariffs to provide the energy supply to
fulfill this increased demand at capped rates, which we expect to remain
significantly below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the
additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at
which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. Accordingly, any
significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations or financial position.


We
Are Subject to Financial Performance Risks Related to the Economic Cycles of the
Electric Utility Industry

Our
business follows the economic cycles of our customers. Sustained downturns or
sluggishness in the economy generally affects the markets in which we operate
and negatively influences our energy operations. Declines in demand for
electricity as a result of economic downturns will reduce overall electricity
sales and reduce our cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce
production, resulting in less consumption of electricity. Economic conditions
also impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts receivable, further
increasing our costs.

The
Goodwill of One or More of Our Operating Subsidiaries May Become Impaired, Which
Would Result in Write-Offs of the Impaired Amounts

There is
a possibility that additional goodwill may be impaired at one or more of our
operating subsidiaries. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill
impairments in future years would depend on many uncertain variables, including
changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, our capital
structure, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings,
operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable utility
acquisitions and other factors.

We
Face Certain Human Resource Risks Associated with the Availability of Trained
and Qualified Labor to Meet Our Future Staffing Requirements

We face
the difficult challenge of finding ways to retain our aging skilled workforce
while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills
due to retirements. Mitigating these risks could require additional financial
commitments.

Significant
Increases in Our Operation and Maintenance Expenses, Including Our Health Care
and Pension Costs, Could Adversely Affect Our Future Earnings and
Liquidity

We
continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and
maintenance expenses. However, we expect to continue to face increased cost
pressures, including health care and pension costs. We have experienced
significant health care cost inflation in the last few years, and we expect our
cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to
continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to continue
to take to require employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs
of their health care benefits. The measurement of our expected future health
care and pension obligations, costs and liabilities is highly dependent on a
variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control.
These assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost
trends, benefit improvements, salary increases and the demographics of plan
participants. If actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our
costs could be significantly increased.

Our  Business
is Subject to the Risk that Sensitive Customer Data May be Compromised, Which
Could Result in an Adverse Impact to Our Reputation and/or Results of
Operations

Our
business requires access to sensitive customer data, including personal and
credit information, in the ordinary course of business. A security breach may
occur, despite security measures taken by us and required of vendors. If a
significant or widely publicized breach occurred, our business reputation may be
adversely affected, customer confidence may be diminished, or we may become
subject to legal claims, any of which may have a negative impact on our business
and/or results of operations.

Acts
of War or Terrorism Could Negatively Impact Our Business

The
possibility that our infrastructure, or that of an interconnected company, such
as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities could be direct
targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war or terrorism could affect
our operations. Our generation plants, transmission and distribution facilities,
or those of interconnected companies, may be targets of terrorist activities
that could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit
or distribute electricity. Any such disruption could result in a decrease in
revenues and additional costs to purchase electricity and to replace or repair
our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations and financial condition.


Capital
Improvements and Construction Projects May Not be Completed within Forecasted
Budget, Schedule or Scope Parameters

Our
business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and
additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, as well as
other initiatives. We may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases
in the costs of labor and materials used in construction. We have engaged
numerous contractors and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire
the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related
services. As a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors
and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. Such risk could
include our contractors inability to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as
potential work stoppages by that labor force. Should the counterparties to these
arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative
arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual
prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. Although our
agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by
the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation
provisions. This could have negative financial impacts such as incurring losses
or delays in completing construction projects.

We
May Acquire Assets That Could Present Unanticipated Issues for our Business
in the Future, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Realize Anticipated
Benefits of Those Acquisitions

Asset
acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including management
attention; integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the
requirements associated with the assets prior to acquisition, operating costs,
potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our
control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital
requirements.  Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability
to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated
benefits from any such asset acquisition.

Risks Associated With
Regulation

Complex
and Changing Government Regulations Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results
of Operations

We are
subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local
regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment.
Changes in or reinterpretations of existing laws or regulations or the
imposition of new laws or regulations could require us to incur additional costs
or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse
impact on our results of operations.

Our
public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one
or more regulatory commissions. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge
may or may not match its expenses at any given time. Additionally, there may
also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are
recovered. While rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn
a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses,
there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will
determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the
regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates
that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner.

Regulatory
Changes in the Electric Industry Including a Reversal, Discontinuance or Delay
of the Present Trend Toward Competitive Markets Could Affect Our Competitive
Position and Result in Unrecoverable Costs Adversely Affecting Our Business and
Results of Operations

As a
result of restructuring initiatives, changes in the electric utility business
have occurred and are continuing to take place throughout the United States,
including Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. These changes have resulted, and
are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way
utilities conduct their business.

Criticism
of restructured electricity markets in public forums escalated during 2007 as
retail rate freezes expired in a number of states and fuel prices increased,
thereby driving up retail prices for electricity. Consumers in other states are
experiencing significant rate increases. In Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey
there is growing pressure for state regulatory and political processes to take
steps to reduce the impact of price increases on retail customers. The political
pressure for states to retreat from allowing competitively-priced supplies to
serve retail load and to return to cost-based regulation of generation resources
or take other actions directed at generators of electricity creates heightened
risk of limitations on the retail price of electricity or other restrictions on
the full recovery of market-based generation prices, which could significantly
affect our results of operations.


Some
states that have deregulated generation service have experienced difficulty in
transitioning to market-based pricing. In some instances, state and federal
government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to delay
market restructuring or even re-regulate areas of these markets that have
previously been deregulated. Although we expect wholesale electricity markets to
continue to be competitive, other proposals to re-regulate our industry may be
made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring
process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in the
states in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. Such delays,
discontinuations or reversals of electricity market restructuring in the markets
in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our results of operations
and financial condition.

The FERC
and the U.S. Congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and
conduct of the electric utility industry. If the restructuring, deregulation or
re-regulation efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our
business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We cannot predict
the extent or timing of further efforts to restructure, deregulate or
re-regulate our business or the industry.

Our
Profitability is Impacted by Our Affiliated Companies Continued Authorization to
Sell Power at Market-Based Rates

In 2005
the FERC granted FES, FGCO and NGC authority to sell electricity at market-based
rates. These orders also granted them waivers of certain FERC accounting,
record-keeping and reporting requirements.   JCP&L, Met-Ed,
OE, Penn, Penelec and TE also have market-based rate authority.  The
FERCs orders that grant this market-based rate authority reserve the right to
revoke or revise that authority if the FERC subsequently determines that these
companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create
barriers to entry or engage in abusive affiliate transactions. As a condition to
the orders granting these generating companies market-based rate authority,
every three years they are required to file a market power update to show that
they continue to meet the FERCs standards with respect to generation market
power and other criteria used to evaluate whether entities qualify for
market-based rates. FES, FGCO NGC,JCP&L, Met-Ed, OE, Penn, Penelec and TE
have filed to renew this authority in 2008. If any of these companies were to
lose its market-based rate authority or fail to have such authority renewed, it
would be required to obtain the FERCs acceptance to sell power at cost-based
rates. FES, FGCO and NGC could also lose their waivers, and become subject to
the accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on
utilities with cost-based rate schedules.

There
Are Uncertainties Relating to the Operations of the PJM and MISO Regional
Transmission Organizations (RTOs)

RTO
rules could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating
facilities to users in certain markets due to transmission constraints and
attendant congestion costs. The prices in day-ahead and real-time energy markets
and RTO capacity markets have been subject to price volatility. Administrative
costs imposed by RTOs, including the cost of administering energy markets, have
also increased. The rules governing the various regional power markets may also
change from time to time which could affect our costs or revenues. To the degree
we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an
RTO, and we are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail
customers, we may suffer financial harm. While RTO rates for transmission
service are designed to be revenue neutral, our revenues from customers to whom
we currently provide transmission services may not reflect all of the
administrative and market-related costs imposed under the RTO tariff. In
addition, we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities
built by others due to changes in RTO transmission rate design. Finally, we may
be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an
RTO rather than our internal planning process. Because it remains unclear which
companies will be participating in the various regional power markets, or how
RTOs will ultimately develop and operate or what region they will cover, we
cannot fully assess the impact that these power markets or other ongoing RTO
developments may have.

Costs
of Compliance with Environmental Laws are Significant, and the Cost of
Compliance with Future Environmental Laws, Including limitations on GHG

Emissions
Could Adversely Affect Cash Flow and Profitability

There
are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the
federal, state and international level. Environmental advocacy groups, other
organizations and some agencies in the United States are focusing
considerable attention on carbon dioxide emissions from power generation
facilities and their potential role in climate change.  Many states
and environmental groups have also challenged certain of the federal laws and
regulations relating to air emissions as not being sufficiently
strict.  As a result, it is possible that state and federal
regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on
emissions than are currently in effect. Although several bills have been
introduced at the state and federal level that would compel carbon dioxide
emission reductions, none have advanced through the legislature. Future changes
in environmental regulations governing these pollutants could require us to make
increased capital expenditures for pollution control devices which could have an
adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
Such legislation could even make some of our electric generating units
uneconomic to maintain or operate. In addition, any legal obligation that would
require us to substantially reduce our emissions beyond present levels could
require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of carbon dioxide
legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels,
particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation
facilities.


Certain
of our subsidiaries operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local
environmental statutes, rules and regulations. Compliance with these legal
requirements requires us to incur costs for environmental monitoring,
installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, maintenance,
upgrading, remediation and permitting at all of our facilities. These
expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future.
If the cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations does
increase, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations,
financial position and cash flows. Moreover, changes in environmental laws or
regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the
timing of capital expenditures. Because of the deregulation of generation, we
may not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such
compliance. Our compliance strategy, although reasonably based on available
information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and
interpretations. If FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries fail to comply with
environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control
or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, that failure could result
in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. In addition, any
alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend
significant resources to defend against any such alleged
violations.

The EPAs
final CAIR and CAVR require significant reductions beginning in 2009 in air
emissions from coal-fired power plants and the states have been given
substantial discretion in developing their own rules to implement these
programs. CAIR has been challenged in the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia. As a result, the ultimate requirements
under these air emission reduction programs may not be known for several years
and may differ significantly from the current rules. If the final rules are
remanded by the Court of Appeals, if states elect not to participate in the
various federal programs under the rules, or if the states elect to impose
additional requirements on individual units that are already subject to the CAIR
and/or the CAVR, costs of compliance could increase significantly and could have
an adverse effect on future results of operations, cash flows and financial
condition. Alternatively, if the final rules are remanded by the Court and their
implementation is postponed, we could be competitively disadvantaged because we
are currently obligated to comply with essentially this same level of emission
controls as a result of our settlement of the New Source Review Litigation
related to our W. H. Sammis Plant.

The EPA's final CAMR
was vacated by the United States Court of Appeals for the District Court of
Columbia on February 8, 2008 because the EPA failed to take the necessary steps
to "de-list" coal-fired power plants from its hazardous air pollution program
and therefore, could not promulgate a cap and trade air emissions reduction
program.  The EPA must now seek judicial review of the court's ruling
or take further regulatory action to promulgate new hazardous air emission
reduction programs which may differ significantly from the cap and trade program
previously promulgated by the EPA for mercury.  As a result, costs of
compliance could increase significantly and could have a material adverse effect
on future results of operations, cash flows and financial
condition.

Various
water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal
Clean Water Act and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergy's plants. In addition,
Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have water quality standards applicable to
FirstEnergy's operations. As provided in the Clean Water Act, authority to grant
federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System water discharge permits
can be assumed by a state. Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have assumed such
authority.

Also, we
are generally responsible for on-site liabilities, and in some cases off-site
liabilities, associated with the environmental condition of our facilities which
we have acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and
whether they are known or unknown. In connection with some acquisitions and
sales of assets, we may obtain, or be required to provide, indemnification
against some environmental liabilities. If we incur a material liability, or the
other party to a transaction fails to meet its indemnification obligations to
us, we could suffer material losses.

Availability
and Cost of Emission Credits Could Materially Impact Our Costs of
Operations

We are
required to maintain, either by allocation or purchase, sufficient emission
credits to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power
generation facilities. These credits are used to meet our obligations imposed by
various applicable environmental laws. If our operational needs require more
than our allocated allowances of emission credits, we may be forced to purchase
such credits on the open market, which could be costly. If we are unable to
maintain sufficient emission credits to match our operational needs, we may have
to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission credits, or
install costly new emissions controls. As we use the emissions credits that we
have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be
recognized as operating expense. If such credits are available for purchase, but
only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such credits could
materially increase our costs of operations in the affected
markets.

Mandatory
Renewable Portfolio Requirements Could Negatively Affect Our Costs

If
federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel
sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, and such legislation would
not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant
changes in our business, including renewable energy credit purchase costs,
purchased power and potentially renewable energy credit costs and capital
expenditures.


We
are and may Become Subject to Legal Claims Arising from the Presence of Asbestos
or Other Regulated Substances at Some of our Facilities

We have
been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple
plaintiffs and multiple defendants. In addition, asbestos and other regulated
substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable
alternative materials are not available. We believe that any remaining asbestos
at our facilities is contained. The continued presence of asbestos and other
regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional
actions being brought against us.

The
Continuing Availability and Operation of Generating Units is Dependent on
Retaining the Necessary Licenses, Permits, and Operating Authority from
Governmental Entities, Including the NRC

We are
required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies
that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and
certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our
business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable
to predict the impact on operating results from future regulatory activities of
any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or
certifications will be renewed.

Risks Associated With
Financing and Capital Structure

Interest
Rates and/or a Credit Rating Downgrade Could Negatively Affect Our Financing
Costs and Our Ability to Access Capital

We have
near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to
variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the
extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt
obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. Interest
rates could significantly change as a result of economic or other events that
our risk management processes were not established to address. As a result, we
cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on
us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management
positions were intended to hedge. Although we employ risk management techniques
to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases
in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and
negatively impact our reported results of operations.

We rely
on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash
requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. A downgrade in our credit
ratings from the nationally-recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a
level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the
bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those
markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding
commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as in place of letters of
credit and other guarantees. A rating downgrade would also increase the fees we
pay on our various credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working
capital. A rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses
by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. Our
senior unsecured debt ratings from S&P and Moodys are investment grade. The
current ratings outlook from S&P is negative and the ratings outlook from
Moodys is stable.

A rating
is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold debt, inasmuch as such rating does
not comment as to market price or suitability for a particular investor. The
ratings assigned to our debt address the likelihood of payment of principal and
interest pursuant to their terms. A rating may be subject to revision or
withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be
evaluated independently of any other rating that may be assigned to our
securities.

We
Must Rely on Cash from Our Subsidiaries

We are a
holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets.
Substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries.
Consequently, our cash flow is dependent on the operating cash flows of our
subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. Our
utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that
generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are
being met. Those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the
ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash
payments to us.


We
Cannot Assure Common Shareholders that Future Dividend Payments Will be Made, or
if Made, in What Amounts they May be Paid

Our
Board of Directors regularly evaluates our common stock dividend policy and
determines the dividend rate each quarter. The level of dividends will continue
to be influenced by many factors, including, among other things, our earnings,
financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general
economic and competitive conditions. We cannot assure common shareholders that
dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the
same amount or with the same frequency as in the past.

ITEM
      1B.

UNRESOLVED
      STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM
      2.

PROPERTIES

The
Companies' respective first mortgage indentures constitute, in the opinion of
the Companies counsel, direct first liens on substantially all of the respective
Companies physical property, subject only to excepted encumbrances, as defined
in the first mortgage indentures. See the "Leases" and "Capitalization" notes to
the respective financial statements for information concerning leases and
financing encumbrances affecting certain of the Companies'
properties.

FirstEnergy
has access, either through ownership or lease, to the following generation
sources as of February 28, 2008, shown in the table below. Except for the
leasehold interests referenced in the footnotes to the table, substantially all
of the generating units are owned by NGC (nuclear) and FGCO (non-nuclear). See
"Generation Asset Transfers" under Item 1 above.


FirstEnergy's
generating plants and load centers are connected by a transmission system
consisting of elements having various voltage ratings ranging from 23 kV to
500 kV. The Companies overhead and underground transmission lines aggregate
15,014 pole miles.


The
Companies electric distribution systems include 117,642 miles of overhead
pole line and underground conduit carrying primary, secondary and street
lighting circuits. They own substations with a total installed transformer
capacity of 88,329,000 kV-amperes.

The
transmission facilities that are owned by ATSI are operated on an integrated
basis as part of MISO and are interconnected with facilities operated by PJM.
The transmission facilities of JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec are physically
interconnected and are operated on an integrated basis as part of
PJM.

FirstEnergy's
distribution and transmission systems as of December 31, 2007, consist of
the following:

*

Represents
      transmission lines of 69kv and above located in the service areas of OE,
      Penn, CEI and TE.

ITEM
      3.

LEGAL
      PROCEEDINGS

Reference
is made to Note 14, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies, of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 for a description
of certain legal proceedings involving FirstEnergy, FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L,
Met-Ed and Penelec.

ITEM
      4.

SUBMISSION
      OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
HOLDERS

None.

PART
II

ITEM
      5.

MARKET
      FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER

MATTERS
      AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES

The
information required by Item 5 regarding FirstEnergy's market information,
including stock exchange listings and quarterly stock market prices, dividends
and holders of common stock is included on page 1 of FirstEnergy's 2007
Annual Report to Stockholders (Exhibit 13.1). Information for FES, OE, CEI,
TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec is not required to be disclosed because they
are wholly owned subsidiaries.

Information
regarding compensation plans for which shares of FirstEnergy common stock may be
issued is incorporated herein by reference to FirstEnergy's 2008 proxy statement
filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.


The
table below includes information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by
FirstEnergy of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2007.

Period

October
      1-31,


November
      1-30,


December
      1-31,


Fourth
      Quarter

Total
      Number of Shares Purchased

(a)

66,271

98,238

392,793

557,302

Average
      Price Paid per Share

$67.21

$71.81

$71.47

$71.02

Total
      Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs

(b)

-

-

-

-

Maximum
      Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased
      Under the Plans or Programs

-

-

-

-

(a)

Share
      amounts reflect purchases on the open market to satisfy FirstEnergy's
      obligations to deliver common stock under its 2007 Incentive
      Compensation Plan, Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors,
      Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, Savings Plan and Stock Investment
      Plan. In addition, such amounts reflect shares tendered by employees to
      pay the exercise price or withholding taxes upon exercise of stock options
      granted under the Executive and Director Incentive Compensation Plan and
      shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans.

(b)

On
      December 10, 2007, FirstEnergy's plan to repurchase up to
      16 million shares of its common stock through June 30, 2008, was
      concluded.

ITEM
      6.

SELECTED
      FINANCIAL DATA

ITEM
      7.

MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND

RESULTS
      OF OPERATIONS

ITEM
      7A.

QUANTITATIVE
      AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
RISK

ITEM
      8.

FINANCIAL
      STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The
information required by Items 6 through 8 is incorporated herein by reference to
Selected Financial Data, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operation, and Financial Statements included on the
following pages in the 2007 Annual Report of FirstEnergy (Exhibit 13.1) and
the combined 2007 Annual Report of FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed and
Penelec (Exhibit 13.2).

Item
      6*

Item
      7*

Item
      7A

Item

FirstEnergy

1-2

3-60

39-42

63-112

FES

N/A

N/A

3-5

8-12,
      91-145

OE

N/A

N/A

14-15

18-22,
      91-145

CEI

N/A

N/A

24-25

28-32,
      91-145

TE

N/A

N/A

34-35

38-42,
      91-145

JCP&L

N/A

N/A

44-45

49-53,
      91-145

Met-Ed

N/A

N/A

56-57

60-64,
      91-145

Penelec

N/A

N/A

66-68

71-75,
      91-145

*FES,
      OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec meet the conditions set forth
      in General Instruction I(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K and are therefore
      filing this Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format specified in
      General Instruction I(2) to Form
10-K.

ITEM
      9.

CHANGES
      IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
      DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM
      9A.

CONTROLS
      AND PROCEDURES -- FIRSTENERGY

Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures

FirstEnergy's
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have reviewed and evaluated
such registrants disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e), as of the end
date covered by this report. Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that FirstEnergy's disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of December
31, 2007.


Management's Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. Using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control Integrated
Framework, management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
FirstEnergy's internal control over financial reporting under the supervision of
FirstEnergy's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based on that
evaluation, management concluded that FirstEnergy's internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007. The
effectiveness of FirstEnergy's internal control over financial reporting, as of
December 31, 2007, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report
included in FirstEnergy's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders and incorporated by
reference hereto.

Changes in Internal Control
over Financial Reporting

There
were no changes in FirstEnergy's internal control over financial reporting
during the fourth quarter of 2007 that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, FirstEnergy's internal control over
financial reporting.

ITEM
      9A(T).

CONTROLS
      AND PROCEDURES -- FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed and
      Penelec

Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures

Each
registrant's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have reviewed
and evaluated such registrant's disclosure controls and procedures, as defined
in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e), as of the
end date covered by this report. Based upon this evaluation, the respective
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that such
registrant's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December
31, 2007.

Management's Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. Using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control Integrated
Framework, management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of each
registrants' internal control over financial reporting under the supervision of
such registrant's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based on
that evaluation, management concluded that each registrant's internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007. The
effectiveness of each registrant's internal control over financial reporting, as
of December 31, 2007, has not been audited by such registrant's independent
registered public accounting firm.

Changes in Internal Control
over Financial Reporting

There
were no changes in the registrants' internal control over financial reporting
during the fourth quarter of 2007 that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrants' internal control over
financial reporting.

ITEM
      9B.

OTHER
      INFORMATION

None.

PART
III

ITEM
      10.

DIRECTORS,
      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

The
information required by Item 10, with respect to identification of
FirstEnergy's directors and with respect to reports required to be filed under
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, is incorporated herein
by reference to FirstEnergy's 2008 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC pursuant
to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, with respect to
identification of executive officers, to "Part I, Item 1.
Business  Executive Officers" herein.

The
Board of Directors has determined that Ernest J. Novak, Jr., an independent
director, is the audit committee financial expert.


FirstEnergy
makes available on its Web site at http://www.firstenergycorp.com/ir its
Corporate Governance Policies and the charters for each of the following
committees of the Board of Directors: Audit; Corporate Governance; Compensation;
Finance; and Nuclear. The Corporate Governance Policies and Board committee
charters are also available in print upon written request to Rhonda S. Ferguson,
Corporate Secretary, FirstEnergy Corp., 76 South Main Street, Akron, OH
44308-1890.

FirstEnergy
has adopted a Code of Business Conduct, which applies to all employees,
including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief
Accounting Officer. In addition, the Board of Directors has its own Code of
Business Conduct. These Codes can be found on the Web site provided in the
previous paragraph or upon written request to the Corporate
Secretary.

Pursuant
to Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, the
Company submitted the Annual CEO Certification to the NYSE on May 17,
2007.

ITEM
      11.

EXECUTIVE
      COMPENSATION

ITEM
      12.

SECURITY
      OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
      STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

ITEM
      13.

CERTAIN
      RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS

The
information required by Items 11, 12 and 13 is incorporated herein by
reference to FirstEnergy's 2008 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC pursuant to
Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

ITEM
      14.

PRINCIPAL
      ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

A
summary of the audit and audit-related fees rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 are as
follows:

Audit
      Fees

(1)

Audit-Related
      Fees

Company





(In
      thousands)

FES

$

1,091

$

-

$


$

-

OE

1,014

1,495

-

-

CEI



-

-

TE



-

-

JCP&L



-

-

Met-Ed



-

-

Penelec



-

-

Other
      subsidiaries


1,478

-

-

Total
      FirstEnergy

$

6,065

$

6,310

$


$

-

(1)

Professional
      services rendered for the audits of FirstEnergy's annual financial
      statements and reviews of financial statements included in FirstEnergy's
      Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and for services in connection with
      statutory and regulatory filings or engagements, including comfort letters
      and consents for financings and filings made with the
  SEC.

Tax
and Other Fees

There
were no other fees billed to FirstEnergy for tax or other services for the years
ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Additional
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
FirstEnergy's 2008 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


PART
IV

ITEM
      15.

EXHIBITS,
      FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)

1.     Financial
Statements

Included
in Part II of this report and incorporated herein by reference to the 2007
Annual Report of FirstEnergy (Exhibit 13.1) and the combined 2007 Annual
Report of FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec (Exhibit 13.2) at the
pages indicated.

FirstEnergy

FES

OE

CEI

TE

JCP&L

Met-Ed

Penelec

Management
      Reports









Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm









Statements
      of Income, Three Years Ended December 31, 2007









Balance
      Sheets, December 31, 2007 and 2006









Statements
      of Capitalization, December 31, 2007 and 2006

65-66








Statements
      of Common Stockholders Equity, Three Years

Ended
      December 31, 2007









Statements
      of Cash Flows, Three Years Ended December 31, 2007









Notes
      to Financial Statements

69-112

91-145

91-145

91-145

91-145

91-145

91-145

91-145

2.

Financial
      Statement Schedules

Included
in Part IV of this report:

FirstEnergy

FES

OE

CEI

TE

JCP&L

Met-Ed

Penelec

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm









Schedule
      II -- Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts, Three Years Ended
      December 31, 2007









Schedules
other than the schedule listed above are omitted for the reason that they are
not required or are not applicable, or the required information is shown in the
financial statements or notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits
      FirstEnergy

Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number

(A)
      (C) 10-87

Form
      of Special Severance Agreements of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief
      Financial Officer and certain other members of senior management,
      including some of the other named executive
  officers


Exhibit

Number

3.
Exhibits - FES

3-1

Articles of
      Incorporation of FirstEnergy Solutions Corp., as amended August 31,

(Form
      S-4 dated August 6, 2007, Exhibit 3.1)

3-2

Code of Regulations of
      FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.

(Form S-4 dated August
      6, 2007, Exhibit 3.4)


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number

3.      Exhibits
OE


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number

(B)
      4-2

General
      Mortgage Indenture and Deed of Trust dated as of January 1, 1998
      between OE and the Bank of New York, as Trustee, as amended and
      supplemented by Supplemental Indentures; (Registration No. 333-05277,
      Exhibit 4(g)).


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number

3.      Exhibits
Common Exhibits for CEI and TE

Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number

3.

Exhibits CEI


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number

3.

Exhibits
TE


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number

3.      Exhibits
JCP&L


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number

3.     
Exhibits - Met-Ed


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number

3.     
Exhibits - Penelec


Exhibit

Number


Exhibit

Number

3.     
Exhibits - Common Exhibits for Met-Ed and Penelec

3.    
Exhibits - Common Exhibits for FirstEnergy, FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed
and Penelec


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedules

To the
Stockholders and Board of Directors of

FirstEnergy
Corp.:

Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements, and of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated
February 28, 2008 appearing in the 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders of
FirstEnergy Corp. (which report and consolidated financial statements are
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an
audit of the financial statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form
10-K. In our opinion, these financial statement schedules present fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      28, 2008


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedules

To the
Stockholder and Board of Directors of

FirstEnergy
Solutions Corp.:

Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements, referred to in our report dated
February 28, 2008

appearing in the 2007
Annual Report to Stockholders of FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. (which report and
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedules
listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, these financial
statement schedules present fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      28, 2008


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedules

To the
Stockholder and Board of Directors of

Ohio
Edison Company:

Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements, referred to in our report dated
February 28, 2008 appearing in the 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders of Ohio
Edison Company (which report and consolidated financial statements are
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an
audit of the financial statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form
10-K. In our opinion, these financial statement schedules present fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      28, 2008


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedules

To the
Stockholder and Board of Directors of

The
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company:

Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements, referred to in our report dated
February 28, 2008

appearing in the 2007
Annual Report to Stockholders of The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company
(which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the
financial statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our
opinion, these financial statement schedules present fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      28, 2008


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedules

To the
Stockholder and Board of Directors of

The
Toledo Edison Company:

Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements, referred to in our report dated
February 28, 2008

appearing in the 2007
Annual Report to Stockholders of The Toledo Edison Company (which report and
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedules
listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, these financial
statement schedules present fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      28, 2008


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedules

To the
Stockholder and Board of Directors of

Jersey
Central Power & Light Company:

Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements, referred to in our report dated
February 28, 2008

appearing in the 2007
Annual Report to Stockholders of Jersey Central Power & Light Company (which
report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial
statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion,
these financial statement schedules present fairly, in all material respects,
the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      28, 2008


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedules

To the
Stockholder and Board of Directors of

Metropolitan
Edison Company:

Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements, referred to in our report dated
February 28, 2008

appearing in the 2007
Annual Report to Stockholders of Metropolitan Edison Company (which report and
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedules
listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, these financial
statement schedules present fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      28, 2008


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedules

To the
Stockholder and Board of Directors of

Pennsylvania
Electric Company:

Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements, referred to in our report dated
February 28, 2008

appearing in the 2007
Annual Report to Stockholders of Pennsylvania Electric Company (which report and
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedules
listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, these financial
statement schedules present fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      28, 2008


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
28, 2008


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
28, 2008


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
28, 2008

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
28, 2008


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
28, 2008

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
28, 2008


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
28, 2008

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
28, 2008


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
28, 2008

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
28, 2008


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
28, 2008

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
28, 2008


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
28, 2008

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
28, 2008


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
28, 2008

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
28, 2008

103