10-K


form10k_2008.htm

FORM 10-K DATED DECEMBER 31, 2008

form10k_2008.htm

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON,
D. C. 20549

FORM
10-K

(Mark
One)

[X]  ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008

OR

[
]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
      the transition period from __________________ to
      ___________________

SECURITIES
REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

SECURITIES
REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

(X)

No

(  )

FirstEnergy
      Corp.

Yes

(  )

No

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
      Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central Power & Light
      Company, Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric
      Company

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes

(X)

No

(  )

FirstEnergy
      Solutions Corp.

Yes

(  )

No

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company,
      The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central Power & Light Company,
      Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric
    Company

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

(X)

No

(  )

FirstEnergy
      Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company,
      The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central Power & Light Company,
      Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric
    Company

Yes

(  )

No

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Solutions Corp.

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

(  )

FirstEnergy
      Corp.

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
      Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central Power & Light
      Company, Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric
      Company

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

(  )

No

(X)

FirstEnergy
      Corp., FirstEnergy Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland
      Electric Illuminating Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central
      Power & Light Company, Metropolitan Edison Company, and Pennsylvania
      Electric Company

State
the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was
last sold, or the average bid and ask price of such common equity, as of the
last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter.

FirstEnergy
Corp., $24,930,103,947 as of June 30, 2008; and for all other registrants,
none.

Indicate
the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant’s classes of common
stock, as of the latest practicable date.

OUTSTANDING

CLASS

AS
      OF FEBRUARY 24, 2009

FirstEnergy

Corp., $.10 par
      value

304,835,407

FirstEnergy
      Solutions Corp., no

par value


Ohio
      Edison Company, no par value


The
      Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, no par value

67,930,743

The
      Toledo Edison Company, $5 par value

29,402,054

Jersey
      Central Power & Light Company, $10 par value

13,628,447

Metropolitan
      Edison Company, no par value

859,500

Pennsylvania
      Electric Company, $20 par value

4,427,577

FirstEnergy
Corp. is the sole holder of FirstEnergy Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company,
The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey
Central Power & Light Company, Metropolitan Edison Company, and Pennsylvania
Electric Company common stock.

Documents
incorporated by reference (to the extent indicated herein):

This
combined

Form 10-K is separately filed by FirstEnergy Corp.,
FirstEnergy Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central Power &
Light Company, Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric Company.
Information contained herein

relating to any individual registrant is
filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any
representation as to information relating to any other registrant, except that
information relating to any of the FirstEnergy subsidiary registrants is also
attributed to FirstEnergy Corp.

OMISSION OF CERTAIN
INFORMATION

FirstEnergy
Solutions Corp., Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Company, The Toledo Edison Company, Jersey Central Power & Light Company,
Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric Company meet the
conditions set forth in General Instruction I(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K and are
therefore filing this Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format specified in
General Instruction I(2) to Form 10-K.

Forward-Looking Statements:

This Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements based on information
currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks
and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management’s
intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain,
but are not limited to, the terms “anticipate,” “potential,” “expect,”
“believe,” “estimate” and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve
estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors
that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially
different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or
implied by such forward-looking statements.

Actual
results may differ materially due to:

·

the
      speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry
      and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will
      be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and
      Pennsylvania,

·

the impact of the PUCO’s r

egulatory
      process on the Ohio Companies associated with the ESP and MRO filings,
      including any resultant mechanism under which the Ohio Companies may not
      fully recover costs (including, but not limited to, costs of generation
      supply procured by the Ohio Companies, Regulatory Transition Charges and
      fuel charges), or the outcome of any competitive generation procurement
      process in
Ohio,

·

economic
      or weather

conditions affecting

future sales and
      margins,

·

changes
      in markets for energy services,

·

changing
      energy and commodity market prices and
  availability,

·

replacement
      power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately
      hedged,

·

the
      continued ability of FirstEnergy’s regulated utilities to collect
      transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission
      costs,

·

maintenance
      costs being higher than
anticipated,

·

other
      legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements,
      including possible GHG emission
regulations,

·

the
      potential impact of the U.S. Court of Appeals’ July 11, 2008 decision
      requiring revisions to the CAIR rules and the scope of any laws, rules or
      regulations that may ultimately take their
  place,

·

the
      uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed
      to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan
      (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that
      certain generating units may need to be shut down) or levels of emission
      reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the NSR litigation or
      other potential regulatory
initiatives,

·

adverse
      regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to,
      the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight)
      by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information
      issued to FENOC on May 14,
2007),

·

the
      timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but
      not limited to, the ESP and MRO proceedings as well as the distribution
      rate cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies
      and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the
      Ohio Supreme Court regarding the RSP and RCP, including the recovery of
      deferred fuel costs),

·

Met-Ed’s
      and Penelec’s transmission service charge filings with the PPUC as well as
      the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth
      Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed
      and Penelec,

·

the
      continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate
      at or near full capacity,

·

the
      ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability
      standards,

·

the
      ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals
      (including employee workforce
initiatives),

·

the
      ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in
      the distribution business,

·

the
      changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in
      the registrants’ nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other
      trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions
      sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently
      anticipated,

·

the
      ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit
      markets in accordance with FirstEnergy’s financing plan and the cost of
      such capital,

·

changes
      in general economic conditions affecting the
  registrants,

·

the
      state of the capital and credit markets affecting the
      registrants,

·

interest
      rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could
      negatively affect the registrants’ access to financing or its costs and
      increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding
      commodity positions, LOCs and other financial
  guarantees,

·

the
      continuing decline of the national and regional economy and its impact on
      the registrants’ major industrial and commercial
  customers,

·

issues
      concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with
      which the registrants do business,
and

·

the
      risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants’
      SEC filings, and other similar
factors.

The
foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors
emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all
such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on the registrants’
business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause
results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
statements. The registrants expressly disclaim any current intention to update
any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise.

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

The following abbreviations and acronyms
are used in this report to identify FirstEnergy Corp. and its current and former
subsidiaries:

i

GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Cont’d.

ii

FORM
10-K 
iii

PART
I

ITEM
1.   BUSINESS

The
Company

FirstEnergy
Corp. was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1996. FirstEnergy’s
principal business is the holding, directly or indirectly, of all of the
outstanding common stock of its eight principal electric utility operating
subsidiaries: OE, CEI, TE, Penn, ATSI, JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec.
FirstEnergy’s consolidated revenues are primarily derived from electric service
provided by its utility operating subsidiaries and the revenues of its other
principal subsidiary, FES. In addition, FirstEnergy holds all of the outstanding
common stock of other direct subsidiaries including: FirstEnergy Properties,
Inc., FirstEnergy Ventures Corp., FENOC, FirstEnergy Securities Transfer
Company, GPU Diversified Holdings, LLC, GPU Telecom Services, Inc., GPU Nuclear,
Inc. and FESC.

FES was
organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1997.  FES provides
energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers in the
MISO and PJM markets. FES also owns and operates, through its subsidiary, FGCO,
FirstEnergy’s fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities and owns, through
its subsidiary, NGC, FirstEnergy’s nuclear generating facilities. FENOC, a
separate subsidiary of FirstEnergy, organized under the laws of the State of
Ohio in 1998, operates and maintains NGC’s nuclear generating facilities. FES
purchases the entire output of the generation facilities owned by FGCO and NGC,
as well as the output relating to leasehold interests of the Ohio Companies in
certain of those facilities that are subject to sale and leaseback arrangements
with non-affiliates, pursuant to full output, cost-of-service PSAs.

FirstEnergy’s
generating portfolio includes 14,173 MW of diversified capacity (FES –
13,973 MW and JCP&L – 200 MW). Within FES’ portfolio, approximately
7,469 MW, or 53.5%, consists of coal-fired capacity; 3,991 MW, or 28.6%,
consists of nuclear capacity; 1,599 MW, or 11.4%, consists of oil and natural
gas peaking units; 451 MW, or 3.2%, consists of hydroelectric capacity; and 463
MW, or 3.3%, consists of capacity from FGCO’s current 20.5% entitlement to the
generation output owned by the OVEC. FirstEnergy’s nuclear and non-nuclear
facilities are operated by FENOC and FGCO, respectively, and, except for
portions of certain facilities that are subject to the sale and leaseback
arrangements with non-affiliates referred to above for which the corresponding
output is available to FES through power sale agreements, are all owned directly
by NGC and FGCO, respectively. The FES generating assets are concentrated
primarily in Ohio, plus the bordering regions of Pennsylvania and Michigan. All
FES units are dedicated to MISO except the Beaver Valley Power Station, which is
designated as a PJM resource.

FES,
FGCO and NGC

compl

y

with the regulations, orders, policies
and practices prescribed by the SEC

and the

FER

C. In addition,

NGC and FENOC

comply with the regulations,
orders, policies and practices prescribed by the NRC.

The
Utilities’ combined service areas encompass approximately 36,100 square miles in
Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The areas they serve have a combined
population of approximately 11.3 million.

OE was
organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1930 and owns property and does
business as an electric public utility in that state. OE engages in the
distribution and sale of electric energy to communities in a 7,000 square mile
area of central and northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of
approximately 2.8 million. OE

compl

ies

with the regulations, orders, policies
and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.

OE owns
all of Penn’s outstanding common stock. Penn was organized under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1930 and owns property and does business as an
electric public utility in that state. Penn is also authorized to do business in
the State of Ohio (see Item 2 – Properties). Penn furnishes electric service to
communities in 1,100 square miles of western Pennsylvania. The area it serves
has a population of approximately 0.4 million.

Penn

compl

ies

with the regulations, orders, policies
and practices prescribed by the FERC and PPUC.

CEI was
organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1892 and does business as an
electric public utility in that state. CEI engages in the distribution and sale
of electric energy in an area of approximately 1,600 square miles in
northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately
1.8 million. CEI

compl

ies

with the regulations, orders, policies
and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.

TE was
organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1901 and does business as an
electric public utility in that state. TE engages in the distribution and sale
of electric energy in an area of approximately 2,300 square miles in
northwestern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately
0.8 million. TE

compl

ies

with the regulations, orders, policies
and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.


ATSI was
organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1998. ATSI owns transmission
assets that were formerly owned by the Ohio Companies and Penn. ATSI owns major,
high-voltage transmission facilities, which consist of approximately 5,821 pole
miles of transmission lines with nominal voltages of 345 kV, 138 kV and 69
kV. Effective October 1, 2003, ATSI transferred operational control of its
transmission facilities to MISO. With its affiliation with MISO, ATSI plans,
operates, and maintains its transmission system in accordance with NERC
reliability standards, and applicable regulatory agencies to ensure reliable
service to customers.

JCP&L
was organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1925 and owns
property and does business as an electric public utility in that state.
JCP&L provides transmission and distribution services in 3,200 square miles
of northern, western and east central New Jersey. The area it serves has a
population of approximately 2.6 million. JCP&L

compl

ies

with the regulations, orders, policies
and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and the

NJBPU

.

Met-Ed
was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1922 and
owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state.
Met-Ed provides transmission and distribution services in 3,300 square miles of
eastern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of
approximately 1.3 million. Met-Ed

compl

ies

with the regulations, orders, policies
and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and P

P

UC.

Penelec
was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1919 and
owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state.
Penelec provides transmission and distribution services in 17,600 square miles
of western, northern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a
population of approximately 1.6 million. Penelec, as lessee of the property
of its subsidiary, The Waverly Electric Light & Power Company, also serves
customers in Waverly, New York and its vicinity. Penelec

compl

ies

with the regulations, orders, policies
and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and P

P

UC.

FESC
provides legal, financial and other corporate support services to affiliated
FirstEnergy companies.

Reference
is made to Note 15, Segment Information, of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in Item 8 for information regarding
FirstEnergy's reportable segments.

Utility
Regulation

State
Regulation

Each of
the Utilities’ retail rates, conditions of service, issuance of securities and
other matters are subject to regulation in the state in which each company
operates – in Ohio by the PUCO, in New Jersey by the NJBPU and in Pennsylvania
by the PPUC.  In addition, under Ohio law, municipalities may regulate
rates of a public utility, subject to appeal to the PUCO if not acceptable to
the utility.

As a
competitive retail electric supplier serving retail customers in Ohio,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Michigan, and Illinois, FES is subject to state laws
applicable to competitive electric suppliers in those states, including
affiliate codes of conduct that apply to FES and its public utility
affiliates.  In addition, if FES or any of its subsidiaries were to
engage in the construction of significant new generation facilities, they would
also be subject to state siting authority.

Federal
Regulation

With
respect to their wholesale and interstate electric operations and rates, the
Utilities, ATSI, FES, FGCO and NGC are subject to regulation by the FERC. Under
the FPA, the FERC regulates rates for interstate sales at wholesale,
transmission of electric power, accounting and other matters, including
construction and operation of hydroelectric projects. The FERC regulations
require ATSI, Met-Ed, JCP&L and Penelec to provide open access transmission
service at FERC-approved rates, terms and conditions.  Transmission
service over ATSI’s facilities is provided by MISO under its open access
transmission tariff, and transmission service over Met-Ed’s, JCP&L’s and
Penelec’s facilities is provided by PJM under its open access transmission
tariff. The FERC also regulates unbundled transmission service to retail
customers.

The FERC
regulates the sale of power for resale in interstate commerce by granting
authority to public utilities to sell wholesale power at market-based rates upon
a showing that the seller cannot exert market power in generation or
transmission. FES, FGCO and NGC have been authorized by the FERC to sell
wholesale power in interstate commerce and have a market-based tariff on file
with the FERC. By virtue of this tariff and authority to sell wholesale power,
each company is regulated as a public utility under the FPA.  However,
consistent with its historical practice, the FERC has granted FES, FGCO and NGC
a waiver from most of the reporting, record-keeping and accounting requirements
that typically apply to traditional public utilities.  Along with
market-based rate authority, the FERC also granted FES, FGCO and NGC blanket
authority to issue securities and assume liabilities under Section 204 of the
FPA. As a condition to selling electricity on a wholesale basis at market-based
rates, FES, FGCO and NGC, like all other entities granted market-based rate
authority, must file electronic quarterly reports with the FERC, listing its
sales transactions for the prior quarter.


The
nuclear generating facilities owned and leased by NGC are subject to extensive
regulation by the NRC.  The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations
to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations,
maintenance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological
aspects of those stations. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke operating
licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy
Act, the regulations under such Act or the terms of the licenses. FENOC is the
licensee for these plants and has direct compliance responsibility for NRC
matters. FES controls the economic dispatch of NGC’s plants.  See
“Nuclear Regulation” below.

Regulatory
Accounting

The
Utilities and ATSI recognize, as regulatory assets, costs which the FERC, PUCO,
PPUC and NJBPU have authorized for recovery from customers in future periods or
for which authorization is probable. Without the probability of such
authorization, costs currently recorded as regulatory assets would have been
charged to income as incurred. All regulatory assets are expected to be
recovered from customers under the Utilities' respective transition and
regulatory plans. Based on those plans, the Utilities continue to bill and
collect cost-based rates for their transmission and distribution services, which
remain regulated; accordingly, it is appropriate that the Utilities continue the
application of SFAS 71 to those operations.

FirstEnergy accounts for the effects of
regulation through the application of SFAS 71 to its operating utilities
since their rates:

·

are
      established by a third-party regulator with the authority to set rates
      that bind customers;

·

are
      cost-based; and

·

can
      be charged to and collected from
customers.

An enterprise meeting all of these
criteria capitalizes costs that would otherwise be charged to expense if the
rate actions of its regulator make it probable that those costs will be
recovered in future revenue. SFAS 71 is applied only to the parts of the
business that meet the above criteria. If a portion of the business applying
SFAS 71 no longer meets those requirements, previously recorded net
regulatory assets are removed from the balance sheet in accordance with the
guidance in SFAS 101.

In

Ohio

,

New Jersey

and

Pennsylvania

, laws applicable to electric industry
restructuring contain similar provisions that are reflected in the

Utilities

' respective state regulatory plans.
These provisions include:

·

restructuring
      the electric generation business and allowing the Utilities' customers to
      select a competitive electric generation supplier other than the
      Utilities;

·

establishing
      or defining the PLR obligations to customers in the Utilities' service
      areas;

·

providing
      the Utilities with the opportunity to recover potentially stranded
      investment (or transition costs) not otherwise recoverable in a
      competitive generation market;

·

itemizing
      (unbundling) the price of electricity into its component elements –
      including generation, transmission, distribution and stranded costs
      recovery charges;

·

continuing
      regulation of the Utilities' transmission and distribution systems;
      and

·

requiring
      corporate separation of regulated and unregulated business
      activities.

Reliability
Initiatives

In late
2003 and early 2004, a series of letters, reports and recommendations were
issued from various entities, including governmental, industry and ad hoc
reliability entities (the PUCO, the FERC, the NERC and the U.S. – Canada Power
System Outage Task Force) regarding enhancements to regional reliability. The
proposed enhancements were divided into two groups:  enhancements that
were to be completed in 2004; and enhancements that were to be completed after
2004. In 2004, FirstEnergy completed all of the enhancements that were
recommended for completion in 2004. FirstEnergy is also proceeding with the
implementation of the recommendations that were to be completed subsequent to
2004 and will continue to periodically assess the FERC-ordered Reliability Study
recommendations for forecasted 2009 system conditions, recognizing revised load
forecasts and other changing system conditions which may impact the
recommendations. Thus far, implementation of the recommendations has not
required, nor is expected to require, substantial investment in new or material
upgrades to existing equipment. The FERC or other applicable government agencies
and reliability coordinators may, however, take a different view as to
recommended enhancements or may recommend additional enhancements in the future
that could require additional material expenditures.


In 2005,
Congress amended the Federal Power Act to provide for federally-enforceable
mandatory reliability standards. The mandatory reliability standards apply to
the bulk power system and impose certain operating, record-keeping and reporting
requirements on the Utilities and ATSI. The NERC is charged with establishing
and enforcing these reliability standards, although it has delegated day-to-day
implementation and enforcement of its responsibilities to eight regional
entities, including ReliabilityFirst Corporation. All of FirstEnergy’s
facilities are located within the ReliabilityFirst region. FirstEnergy actively
participates in the NERC and ReliabilityFirst stakeholder processes, and
otherwise monitors and manages its companies in response to the ongoing
development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability
standards.

FirstEnergy
believes that it is in compliance with all currently-effective and enforceable
reliability standards. Nevertheless, it is clear that the NERC, ReliabilityFirst
and the FERC will continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as
to develop and adopt new reliability standards. The financial impact of
complying with new or amended standards cannot be determined at this time.
However, the 2005 amendments to the Federal Power Act provide that all prudent
costs incurred to comply with the new reliability standards be recovered in
rates. Still, any future inability on FirstEnergy’s part to comply with the
reliability standards for its bulk power system could result in the imposition
of financial penalties and thus have a material adverse effect on its financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.

In April
2007, ReliabilityFirst performed a routine compliance audit of FirstEnergy’s
bulk-power system within the Midwest ISO region and found it to be in full
compliance with all audited reliability standards. Similarly, in October 2008,
ReliabilityFirst performed a routine compliance audit of FirstEnergy’s
bulk-power system within the PJM region and a final report is expected in early
2009. FirstEnergy does not expect any material adverse financial impact as a
result of these audits.

PUCO
Rate Matters

On
January 4, 2006, the PUCO issued an order authorizing the Ohio Companies to
recover certain increased fuel costs through a fuel rider and to defer certain
other increased fuel costs to be incurred from January 1, 2006 through
December 31, 2008, including interest on the deferred balances. The order
also provided for recovery of the deferred costs over a twenty-five-year period
through distribution rates. On August 29, 2007, the Supreme Court of Ohio
concluded that the PUCO violated a provision of the Ohio Revised Code by
permitting the Ohio Companies “to collect deferred increased fuel costs through
future distribution rate cases, or to alternatively use excess fuel-cost
recovery to reduce deferred distribution-related expenses” and remanded the
matter to the PUCO for further consideration. On September 10, 2007, the
Ohio Companies filed an application with the PUCO that requested the
implementation of two generation-related fuel cost riders to collect the
increased fuel costs that were previously authorized to be deferred. On
January 9, 2008, the PUCO approved the Ohio Companies’ proposed fuel cost
rider to recover increased fuel costs incurred during 2008, which was
approximately $185 million. In addition, the PUCO ordered the Ohio
Companies to file a separate application for an alternate recovery mechanism to
collect the 2006 and 2007 deferred fuel costs. On February 8, 2008, the
Ohio Companies filed an application proposing to recover $226 million of
deferred fuel costs and carrying charges for 2006 and 2007 pursuant to a
separate fuel rider. Recovery of the deferred fuel costs was also addressed in
the Ohio Companies’ comprehensive ESP filing, which was subsequently withdrawn
on December 22, 2008, and also as a part of the stipulation and
recommendation which was attached to the amended application
for an ESP, both as described below.

On June
7, 2007, the Ohio Companies filed an application for an increase in electric
distribution rates with the PUCO and, on August 6, 2007, updated their
filing to support a distribution rate increase of $332 million. On
December 4, 2007, the PUCO Staff issued its Staff Reports containing the
results of its investigation into the distribution rate request. In its reports,
the PUCO Staff recommended a distribution rate increase in the range of
$161 million to $180 million, with $108 million to $127 million for
distribution revenue increases and $53 million for recovery of costs
deferred under prior cases. During the evidentiary hearings and filing of
briefs, the PUCO Staff decreased their recommended revenue increase to a range
of $117 million to $135 million.

On January 21, 2009, the PUCO granted
the Ohio Companies’ application to increase electric distribution rates by
$136.6 million (OE - $68.9 million, CEI - $29.2 million and TE - $38.5
million).  These increases went into effect for OE and TE on January
23, 2009, and will go into effect for CEI

on May 1, 2009. Applications
for rehearing of this order were filed by the Ohio Companies and one other
party on February 20, 2009.

On May
1, 2008, Governor Strickland signed SB221, which became effective on
July 31, 2008. The bill requires all utilities to file an ESP with the
PUCO, which must contain a proposal for the supply and pricing of retail
generation. A utility may also file an MRO with the PUCO, in which it would have
to prove the following objective market criteria: 1) the utility or its
transmission service affiliate belongs to a FERC approved RTO, or there is
comparable and nondiscriminatory access to the electric transmission grid; 2)
the RTO has a market-monitor function and the ability to mitigate market power
or the utility’s market conduct, or a similar market monitoring function exists
with the ability to identify and monitor market conditions and conduct; and 3) a
published source of information is available publicly or through subscription
that identifies pricing information for traded electricity products, both on-
and off-peak, scheduled for delivery two years into the future.


On July
31, 2008, the Ohio Companies filed with the PUCO a comprehensive ESP and MRO.
The MRO filing outlined a CBP for providing retail generation supply if the ESP
is not approved and implemented. The CBP would use a “slice-of-system” approach
where suppliers bid on tranches (approximately 100 MW) of the Ohio Companies’
total customer load.

If the Ohio
Companies proceed with the MRO option, successful bidders (including affiliates)
would be required to post independent credit requirements and could be subject
to significant collateral calls depending upon power price movement.

The
PUCO denied the MRO application on November 26, 2008.  The Ohio
Companies filed an application for rehearing on December 23, 2008, which the
PUCO granted on January 21, 2009, for the purpose of further consideration of
the matter.

The ESP
proposed to phase in new generation rates for customers beginning in 2009 for up
to a three-year period and resolve the Ohio Companies’ collection of fuel costs
deferred in 2006 and 2007, and the distribution rate request described above. On
December 19, 2008, the PUCO significantly modified and approved the ESP as
modified.  On December 22, 2008, the Ohio Companies notified the PUCO
that they were withdrawing and terminating the ESP application as allowed by the
terms of SB221.  The Ohio Companies further notified the PUCO that,
pursuant to SB221, the Ohio Companies would continue their current rate plan in
effect and filed tariffs to continue those rates.

On
December 31, 2008, the Ohio Companies conducted a CBP, using an RFP format
administered by an independent third party, for the procurement of electric
generation for retail customers from January 5, 2009 through March 31, 2009.
Four qualified wholesale bidders were selected, including FES, for 97% of the
tranches offered in the RFP. The average winning bid price was equivalent to a
retail rate of 6.98 cents per kilowatt-hour. Subsequent to the RFP, the
remaining 3% of the Ohio Companies’ wholesale energy and capacity needs were
obtained through a bilateral contract with the lowest bidder in the RFP
procurement. The power supply obtained through the foregoing
processes provides generation service to the Ohio Companies’ retail
customers who choose not to shop with alternative suppliers.

Following
comments by other parties on the Ohio Companies’ December 22, 2008, filing which
continued the current rate plan, the PUCO issued an Order on January 7, 2009,
that prevented OE and TE from collecting RTC and discontinued the collection of
two fuel riders for the Ohio Companies.  The Ohio Companies filed an
application for rehearing on January 9, 2009, and also filed an application for
a new fuel rider to recover the increased costs for purchasing power d

uring the period
January 1, 2009 through March 31, 2009.

On January 14, 2009, the
PUCO approved the Ohio Companies’ request for the new fuel rider, subject to
further review, allowed current recovery of those costs for OE and TE, and
allowed CEI to collect a portion of those costs currently and defer the
remainder. The PUCO also ordered the Ohio Companies to file additional
information in order for it to determine that the costs incurred are prudent and
whether the recovery of such costs is necessary to avoid a confiscatory
result.  The Ohio Companies filed an application for rehearing on that
order on January 26, 2009. The applications for rehearing remain pending and the
Ohio Companies are unable to predict the ultimate resolution of these
issues.

On January 29, 2009,
the PUCO ordered its Staff to develop a proposal to establish an ESP for the
Ohio Companies and further ordered that a conference be held on February 5, 2009
to discuss the Staff’s proposal. The Ohio Companies, PUCO Staff, and other
parties participated in that conference, and in a subsequent conference held on
February 17, 2009. Following discussions with the Staff and other parties
regarding the Staff’s proposal, on February 19, 2009, the Ohio Companies filed
an amended ESP application, including an attached Stipulation and Recommendation
that was signed by the Ohio Companies, the Staff of the PUCO, and many of the
intervening parties representing a diverse range of interests, which
substantially reflected the terms as proposed by the Staff as modified through
the negotiations of the parties. Specifically, the stipulated ESP provides that
generation will be provided by FES at the average wholesale rate of the RFP
process described above for April and May 2009 to the Ohio Companies for their
non-shopping customers and that for the period of June 1, 2009 through
May 31, 2011, retail generation prices will be based upon the outcome of a
descending clock CBP on a slice-of-system basis. The PUCO may, at its
discretion, phase-in a portion of any increase resulting from this CBP process
by authorizing deferral of related purchased power costs, subject to specified
limits. The proposed ESP further provides that the Ohio Companies will not seek
a base distribution rate increase with an effective date before January 1, 2012,
that CEI will agree to write-off approximately $215 million of its Extended
RTC balance, and that the Ohio Companies will collect a delivery service
improvement rider at an overall average rate of $.002 per kWh for the period of
April 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. If the Stipulated ESP is approved,
one-time charges associated with implementing the ESP would be approximately
$250 million (including the CEI Extended RTC balance), or $0.53 per share of
common stock. The proposed ESP also addresses a number of other issues,
including but not limited to, rate design for various customer classes,
resolution of the prudence review described above and the collection of deferred
costs that were approved in prior proceedings. On February 19, 2009, the
PUCO attorney examiner issued an order setting this matter for hearing to begin
on February 25, 2009.


PPUC
Rate Matters

Met-Ed
and Penelec purchase a portion of their PLR and default service requirements
from FES through a fixed-price partial requirements wholesale power sales
agreement. The agreement allows Met-Ed and Penelec to sell the output of NUG
energy to the market and requires FES to provide energy at fixed prices to
replace any NUG energy sold to the extent needed for Met-Ed and Penelec to
satisfy their PLR and default service obligations. The fixed price under the
agreement is expected to remain below wholesale market prices during the term of
the agreement. If Met-Ed and Penelec were to replace the entire FES supply at
current market power prices without corresponding regulatory authorization to
increase their generation prices to customers, each company would likely incur a
significant increase in operating expenses and experience a material
deterioration in credit quality metrics. Under such a scenario, each company's
credit profile would no longer be expected to support an investment grade rating
for their fixed income securities. If FES ultimately determines to terminate,
reduce, or significantly modify the agreement prior to the expiration of
Met-Ed’s and Penelec’s generation rate caps in 2010, timely regulatory relief is
not likely to be granted by the PPUC. See FERC Matters below for a description
of the Third Restated Partial Requirements Agreement, executed by the parties on
October 31, 2008, that limits the amount of energy and capacity FES must
supply to Met-Ed and Penelec. In the event of a third party supplier default,
the increased costs to Met-Ed and Penelec could be material.

On May
22, 2008, the PPUC approved the Met-Ed and Penelec annual updates to the TSC
rider for the period June 1, 2008, through May 31, 2009. Various
intervenors filed complaints against those filings. In addition, the PPUC
ordered an investigation to review the reasonableness of Met-Ed’s TSC, while at
the same time allowing Met-Ed to implement the rider June 1, 2008, subject
to refund.

On July 15, 2008, the
PPUC directed the ALJ to consolidate the complaints against Met-Ed with its
investigation and a litigation schedule was adopted. Hearings and briefing for
both companies are expected to conclude by the end of February 2009.

The
TSCs include a component from under-recovery of actual transmission costs
incurred during the prior period (Met-Ed - $144 million and Penelec - $4
million) and future transmission cost projections for June 2008 through May 2009
(Met-Ed - $258 million and Penelec - $92 million). Met-Ed received
PPUC approval for a transition approach that would recover past under-recovered
costs plus carrying charges through the new TSC over thirty-one months and defer
a portion of the projected costs ($92 million) plus carrying charges for
recovery through future TSCs by December 31, 2010.

On
February 1, 2007, the Governor of Pennsylvania proposed an EIS. The EIS includes
four pieces of proposed legislation that, according to the Governor, is designed
to reduce energy costs, promote energy independence and stimulate the economy.
Elements of the EIS include the installation of smart meters, funding for solar
panels on residences and small businesses, conservation and demand reduction
programs to meet energy growth, a requirement that electric distribution
companies acquire power that results in the “lowest reasonable rate on a
long-term basis,” the utilization of micro-grids and a three year phase-in of
rate increases. On July 17, 2007 the Governor signed into law two pieces of
energy legislation. The first amended the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards
Act of 2004 to, among other things, increase the percentage of solar energy that
must be supplied at the conclusion of an electric distribution company’s
transition period. The second law allows electric distribution companies, at
their sole discretion, to enter into long term contracts with large customers
and to build or acquire interests in electric generation facilities specifically
to supply long-term contracts with such customers. A special legislative session
on energy was convened in mid-September 2007 to consider other aspects of the
EIS. As part of the 2008 state budget negotiations, the Alternative Energy
Investment Act was enacted in July 2008 creating a $650 million alternative
energy fund to increase the development and use of alternative and renewable
energy, improve energy efficiency and reduce energy consumption.

On
October 15, 2008, the Governor of Pennsylvania signed House Bill 2200 into law
which became effective on November 14, 2008 as Act 129 of 2008. The bill
addresses issues such as: energy efficiency and peak load reduction; generation
procurement; time-of-use rates; smart meters and alternative energy. Act 129
requires utilities to file with the PPUC an energy efficiency and peak load
reduction plan by July 1, 2009 and a smart meter procurement and
installation plan by August 14, 2009. On January 15, 2009, in compliance with
Act 129, the PPUC issued its guidelines for the filing of utilities’ energy
efficiency and peak load reduction plans.

Major
provisions of the legislation include:

·

power
      acquired by utilities to serve customers after rate caps expire will be
      procured through a competitive procurement process that must include a mix
      of long-term and short-term contracts and spot market
      purchases;

·

the
      competitive procurement process must be approved by the PPUC and may
      include auctions, RFPs, and/or bilateral
  agreements;

·

utilities
      must provide for the installation of smart meter technology within 15
      years;


·

a
      minimum reduction in peak demand of 4.5% by May 31,
  2013;

·

minimum
      reductions in energy consumption of 1% and 3% by May 31, 2011 and May 31,
      2013, respectively; and

·

an
      expanded definition of alternative energy to include additional types of
      hydroelectric and biomass
facilities.

Legislation
addressing rate mitigation and the expiration of rate caps was not enacted in
2008 but may be considered in the legislative session which began in January
2009. While the form and impact of such legislation is uncertain, several
legislators and the Governor have indicated their intent to address these issues
in 2009.

On
September 25, 2008, Met-Ed and Penelec filed a Voluntary Prepayment Plan with
the PPUC that would provide an opportunity for residential and small commercial
customers to prepay an amount on their monthly electric bills during 2009 and
2010 that would earn interest at 7.5% and be used to reduce electric rates in
2011 and 2012. Met-Ed, Penelec, OCA and OSBA have reached a settlement agreement
on the Voluntary Prepayment Plan and have jointly requested that the PPUC
approve the settlement. The ALJ issued a decision on January 29, 2009,
recommending approval and adoption of the settlement without
modification.

On
February 20, 2009, Met-Ed and Penelec filed a generation procurement plan
covering the period January 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013, with the PPUC. The
companies’ plan is designed to provide adequate and reliable service via a
prudent mix of long-term, short-term and spot market generation supply, as
required by Act 129. The plan proposes a staggered procurement schedule, which
varies by customer class, through the use of a descending clock auction. Met-Ed
and Penelec have requested PPUC approval of their plan by October
2009.

NJBPU
Rate Matters

JCP&L
is permitted to defer for future collection from customers the amounts by which
its costs of supplying BGS to non-shopping customers, costs incurred under NUG
agreements, and certain other stranded costs, exceed amounts collected through
BGS and NUGC rates and market sales of NUG energy and capacity.

As of December 31, 2008, the accumulated
deferred cost balance totaled approximately
$220 million.

In
accordance with an April 28, 2004 NJBPU order, JCP&L filed testimony on
June 7, 2004, supporting continuation of the current level and duration of
the funding of TMI-2 decommissioning costs by New Jersey customers without a
reduction, termination or capping of the funding. On September 30, 2004,
JCP&L filed an updated TMI-2 decommissioning study. This study resulted in
an updated total decommissioning cost estimate of $729 million (in 2003
dollars) compared to the estimated $528 million (in 2003 dollars) from the
prior 1995 decommissioning study. The DRA filed comments on February 28,
2005 requesting that decommissioning funding be suspended. On March 18,
2005, JCP&L filed a response to those comments. JCP&L responded to
additional NJBPU staff discovery requests in May and November 2007 and also
submitted comments in the proceeding in November 2007. A schedule for further
NJBPU proceedings has not yet been set.

On
August 1, 2005, the NJBPU established a proceeding to determine whether
additional ratepayer protections are required at the state level in light of the
repeal of the PUHCA pursuant to the EPACT. The NJBPU approved regulations
effective October 2, 2006 that prevent a holding company that owns a gas or
electric public utility from investing more than 25% of the combined assets of
its utility and utility-related subsidiaries into businesses unrelated to the
utility industry. These regulations are not expected to materially impact
FirstEnergy or JCP&L. Also, in the same proceeding, the NJBPU Staff issued
an additional draft proposal on March 31, 2006 addressing various issues
including access to books and records, ring-fencing, cross subsidization,
corporate governance and related matters. With the approval of the NJBPU Staff,
the affected utilities jointly submitted an alternative proposal on June 1,
2006. The NJBPU Staff circulated revised drafts of the proposal to interested
stakeholders in November 2006 and again in February 2007. On February 1,
2008, the NJBPU accepted proposed rules for publication in the New Jersey
Register on March 17, 2008. A public hearing on these proposed rules was
held on April 23, 2008 and comments from interested parties were submitted
by May 19, 2008.

New
Jersey statutes require that the state periodically undertake a planning
process, known as the EMP, to address energy related issues including energy
security, economic growth, and environmental impact. The EMP is to be developed
with involvement of the Governor’s Office and the Governor’s Office of Economic
Growth, and is to be prepared by a Master Plan Committee, which is chaired by
the NJBPU President and includes representatives of several State
departments.


The EMP
was issued on October 22, 2008, establishing five major goals:

·

maximize
      energy efficiency to achieve a 20% reduction in energy consumption by
      2020;

·

reduce
      peak demand for electricity by 5,700 MW by
2020;

·

meet
      30% of the state’s electricity needs with renewable energy by
      2020;

·

examine
      smart grid technology and develop additional cogeneration and other
      generation resources consistent with the state’s greenhouse gas targets;
      and

·

invest
      in innovative clean energy technologies and businesses to stimulate the
      industry’s growth in New Jersey.

The EMP
will be followed by appropriate legislation and regulation as necessary. At this
time, FirstEnergy cannot determine the impact, if any, the EMP may have on its
operations or those of JCP&L.

In
support of the New Jersey Governor’s Economic Assistance and Recovery Plan,
JCP&L announced its intent to spend approximately $98 million on
infrastructure and energy efficiency projects in 2009. An estimated
$40 million will be spent on infrastructure projects, including substation
upgrades, new transformers, distribution line re-closers and automated breaker
operations. Approximately $34 million will be spent implementing new demand
response programs as well as expanding on existing programs. Another
$11 million will be spent on energy efficiency, specifically replacing
transformers and capacitor control systems and installing new LED street lights.
The remaining $13 million will be spent on energy efficiency programs that
will complement those currently being offered. Completion of the projects is
dependent upon regulatory approval for full recovery of the costs associated
with plan implementation.

FERC
Matters

Transmission
Service between MISO and PJM

On November 18, 2004, the FERC issued an
order eliminating the through and out rate for transmission service between the
MISO and PJM regions. The FERC’s intent was to eliminate multiple transmission
charges for a single transaction between the MISO and PJM regions. The FERC also
ordered MISO, PJM and the transmission owners within MISO and PJM to submit
compliance filings containing a rate mechanism to recover lost transmission
revenues created by elimination of this charge (referred to as the Seams
Elimination Cost Adjustment or “SECA”) during a 16-month transition period. The
FERC issued orders in 2005 setting the SECA for hearing.

The presiding judge issued an initial
decision on August 10, 2006, rejecting the compliance filings made by MISO,
PJM, and the transmission owners, and directing new compliance filings. This
decision is subject to review and approval by the FERC. Briefs addressing the
initial decision were filed on September 11, 2006 and October 20, 2006. A
final order is pending before the FERC, and in the meantime, FirstEnergy
affiliates have been negotiating and entering into settlement agreements with
other parties in the docket to mitigate the risk of lower transmission revenue
collection associated with an adverse order. On September 26, 2008, the MISO and
PJM transmission owners filed a motion requesting that the FERC approve the
pending settlements and act on the initial decision. On November 20, 2008, FERC
issued an order approving uncontested settlements, but did not rule on the
initial decision.

On December 19, 2008, an additional order was issued
approving two contested settlements.

PJM Transmission Rate
Design

On January 31, 2005, certain PJM
transmission owners made filings with the FERC pursuant to a settlement
agreement previously approved by the FERC. JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec were
parties to that proceeding and joined in two of the filings. In the first
filing, the settling transmission owners submitted a filing justifying
continuation of their existing rate design within the PJM RTO. Hearings were
held and numerous parties appeared and litigated various issues concerning PJM
rate design; notably AEP, which proposed to create a "postage stamp", or average
rate for all high voltage transmission facilities across PJM and a zonal
transmission rate for facilities below 345 kV. This proposal would have the
effect of shifting recovery of the costs of high voltage transmission lines to
other transmission zones, including those where JCP&L, Met-Ed, and Penelec
serve load.

On April 19,
2007, the FERC issued an order finding that the PJM transmission owners’
existing “license plate” or zonal rate design was just and reasonable and
ordered that the current license plate rates for existing transmission
facilities be retained. On the issue of rates for new transmission facilities,
the FERC directed that costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at
500 kV or higher are to be collected from all transmission zones throughout the
PJM footprint by means of a postage-stamp rate. Costs for new transmission
facilities that are rated at less than 500 kV, however, are to be allocated on a
“beneficiary pays” basis. The FERC found that PJM’s current beneficiary-pays
cost allocation methodology is not sufficiently detailed and, in a related order
that also was issued on April 19, 2007, directed that hearings be held for the
purpose of establishing a just and reasonable cost allocation methodology for
inclusion in PJM’s tariff.


On May 18, 2007, certain parties filed
for rehearing of the FERC’s April 19, 2007 order. On January 31, 2008, the
requests for rehearing were denied. On February 11, 2008, AEP appealed the
FER

C’s April 19, 2007, and
January

31, 2008,
orders to the federal Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. The Illinois
Commerce Commission, the PUCO and Dayton Power & Light have also appealed
these orders to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. The appeals of these
parties and others have been consolidated for argument in the Seventh
Circuit.

The FERC’s orders on PJM rate design
will prevent the allocation of a portion of the revenue requirement of existing
transmission facilities of other utilities to JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec. In
addition, the FERC’s decision to allocate the cost of new 500 kV and above
transmission facilities on a PJM-wide basis will reduce the costs of future
transmission to be recovered from the JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec zones. A
partial settlement agreement addressing the “beneficiary pays” methodology for
below 500 kV facilities, but excluding the issue of allocating new facilities
costs to merchant transmission entities, was filed on September 14, 2007. The
agreement was supported by the FERC’s Trial Staff, and was certified by the
Presiding Judge to the FERC. On July 29, 2008, the FERC issued an order
conditionally approving the settlement subject to the submission of a compliance
filing. The compliance filing was submitted on August 29, 2008, and the
FERC issued an order accepting the compliance filing on October 15, 2008. The
remaining merchant transmission cost allocation issues were the subject of a
hearing at the FERC in May 2008. An initial decision was issued by the Presiding
Judge on September 18, 2008. PJM and FERC trial staff each filed a Brief on
Exceptions to the initial decision on October

20, 2008. Briefs Opposing Exceptions
were filed on November 10, 2008.

Post
Transition Period Rate Design

The FERC
had directed MISO, PJM, and the respective transmission owners to make filings
on or before August 1, 2007 to reevaluate transmission rate design within MISO,
and between MISO and PJM. On August 1, 2007, filings were made by MISO, PJM, and
the vast majority of transmission owners, including FirstEnergy affiliates,
which proposed to retain the existing transmission rate design. These filings
were approved by the FERC on January 31, 2008. As a result of the FERC’s
approval, the rates charged to FirstEnergy’s load-serving affiliates for
transmission service over existing transmission facilities in MISO and PJM are
unchanged. In a related filing, MISO and MISO transmission owners requested that
the current MISO pricing for new transmission facilities that spreads 20% of the
cost of new 345 kV and higher transmission facilities across the entire MISO
footprint (known as the RECB methodology) be retained.

On September 17, 2007, AEP filed a
complaint under Sections 206 and 306 of the Federal Power Act seeking to have
the entire transmission rate design and cost allocation methods used by MISO and
PJM declared unjust, unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory, and to have the
FERC fix a uniform regional transmission rate design and cost allocation method
for the entire MISO and PJM “Super Region” that recovers the average cost of new
and existing transmission facilities operated at voltages of 345 kV and above
from all transmission customers. Lower voltage facilities would continue to be
recovered in the local utility transmission rate zone through a license plate
rate. AEP requested a refund effective October 1, 2007, or alternatively,
February 1, 2008. On January 31, 2008, the FERC issued an order denying the
complaint. The effect of this order is to prevent the shift of significant costs
to the FirstEnergy zones in MISO and

PJM. A rehearing request by AEP was
denied by the FERC on December 19, 2008.

On February

17, 2009,

AEP appealed the FERC’s
January

31, 2008, and
December 19, 2008, orders to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit.

Interconnection Agreement with
AMP-Ohio

On May 29, 2008, TE filed with the FERC
a proposed Notice of Cancellation effective midnight December 31, 2008, of the
Interconnection Agreement with AMP-Ohio. AMP-Ohio protested this filing. TE also
filed a Petition for Declaratory Order seeking a FERC ruling, in the alternative
if cancellation is not accepted, of TE's right to file for an increase in rates
effective January 1, 2009, for power provided to AMP-Ohio under the
Interconnection Agreement. AMP-Ohio filed a pleading agreeing that TE may seek
an increase in rates, but arguing that any increase is limited to the cost of
generation owned by TE affiliates. On August 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order
that suspended the cancellation of the Agreement for five months, to become
effective on June 1, 2009, and established expedited hearing procedures on
issues raised in the filing and TE’s Petition for Declaratory Order. On
October 14, 2008, the parties filed a settlement agreement and mutual
notice of cancellation of the Interconnection Agreement effective midnight
December 31, 2008. On October 24, 2008 the presiding judge certified
the settlement agreement as uncontested and on December 22, 2008, the FERC
issued an order approving the uncontested settlement agreement. This latest
action terminates the litigation and the Interconnection Agreement

.


Duquesne’s
Request to Withdraw from PJM

On November 8, 2007, Duquesne Light
Company (Duquesne) filed a request with the FERC to exit PJM and to join MISO.
Duquesne’s proposed move would affect numerous FirstEnergy interests, including
but not limited to the terms under which FirstEnergy’s Beaver Valley Plant would
continue to participate in PJM’s energy markets.  FirstEnergy,
therefore, intervened and participated fully in all of the FERC dockets that
were related to Duquesne’s proposed move.

In November, 2008, Duquesne and other
parties, including FirstEnergy, negotiated a settlement that would, among other

things

, allow for Duquesne to remain in PJM
and provide for a methodology for Duquesne to meet the PJM capacity obligations
for the 2011-2012 auction that excluded the Duquesne load. The settlement

agreement was filed on
December

10, 2008 and
approved by the FERC in an order issued on January 29, 2009. The MISO opposed
the settlement agreement pending resolution of exit fees alleged to be owed by
Duquesne.  The FERC did not

resolve

this issue in its
order.

Complaint
against PJM RPM Auction

On May 30, 2008, a group of PJM
load-serving entities, state commissions, consumer advocates, and trade
associations (referred to collectively as the RPM Buyers) filed a complaint at
the FERC against PJM alleging that three of the four transitional RPM
auctions yielded prices that are unjust and unreasonable under the Federal Power
Act.

On September

19, 2008, the FERC denied the RPM
Buyers’ complaint. However, the FERC did grant the RPM Buyers’ request for a
technical conference to review aspects of the RPM. The FERC also ordered PJM to
file on or before December 15, 2008, a report on potential adjustments to
the RPM program as suggested in a Bra

ttle Group report.  On
December

12, 2008, PJM
filed proposed tariff amendments that would adjust slightly the RPM program. PJM
also requested that the FERC conduct a settlement hearing to address changes to
the RPM and suggested that the FERC should rule on the tariff amendments only if
settlement could not be reached in January, 2009. The request for settlement
hearings was granted. Settlement had not been reached by January 9, 2009 and,
accordingly, FirstEnergy and other parties submitted comments on PJM’s proposed
tariff amendments. On January

15, 2009, the Chief Judge issued an
order

terminating
settlement talks. On February 9, 2009, PJM and a group of stakeholders
submitted an offer of settlement.

On October 20, 2008, the RPM Buyers
filed a request for rehearing of the FERC’s September 19, 2008 order. The
FERC has not yet ruled on the rehearing request.

MISO
Resource Adequacy Proposal

MISO made a filing on December 28, 2007
that would create an enforceable planning reserve requirement in the MISO tariff
for load-serving entities such as the Ohio Companies, Penn Power, and

FES

. This requirement is proposed to become
effective for the planning year beginning June 1, 2009. The filing would permit
MISO to establish the reserve margin requirement for load-serving entities based
upon a one day loss of load in ten years standard, unless the state utility
regulatory agency establishes a different planning reserve for load-serving
entities in its state. FirstEnergy believes the proposal promotes a mechanism
that will result in commitments from both load-serving entities and resources,
including both generation and demand side resources that are necessary for
reliable resource adequacy and planning in the MISO footprint. Comments on the
filing were filed on January 28, 2008. The FERC conditionally approved MISO’s
Resource Adequacy proposal on March 26, 2008, requiring MISO to submit to
further compliance filings. Rehearing requests are pending on the FERC’s March
26 Order. On May 27, 2008, MISO submitted a compliance filing to address issues
associated with planning reserve margins. On June 17, 2008, various parties
submitted comments and protests to MISO’s compliance filing. FirstEnergy
submitted comments identifying specific issues that must be clarified and
addressed. On June 25, 2008, MISO submitted a second compliance filing
establishing the enforcement mechanism for the reserve margin requirement which
establishes deficiency payments for load-serving entities that do not meet the
resource adequacy requirements. Numerous parties, including FirstEnergy,
protested this filing.

On
October 20, 2008, the FERC issued three orders essentially permitting the MISO
Resource Adequacy program to proceed with some modifications. First, the FERC
accepted MISO's financial settlement approach for enforcement of Resource
Adequacy subject to a compliance filing modifying the cost of new entry penalty.
Second, the FERC conditionally accepted MISO's compliance filing on the
qualifications for purchased power agreements to be capacity resources, load
forecasting, loss of load expectation, and planning reserve zones. Additional
compliance filings were directed on accreditation of load modifying resources
and price responsive demand. Finally, the FERC largely denied rehearing of its
March 26 order with the exception of issues related to behind the meter
resources and certain ministerial matters. On November 19, 2008, MISO made
various compliance filings pursuant to these orders. Issuance of orders on these
compliance filings is not expected to delay the June 1, 2009, start date for
MISO Resource Adequacy.


FES
Sales to Affiliates

On October 24, 2008, FES, on its own
behalf and on behalf of its generation-controlling subsidiaries, filed an
application with the FERC seeking a waiver of the affiliate sales restrictions
between

FES

and the Ohio Companies. The purpose of
the waiver is to ensure that

FES

will be able to continue supplying a
material portion of the electric load requirements of the Ohio Companies in
January 2009 pursuant to either an ESP or MRO as filed with the PUCO. FES
previously obtained a similar waiver for electricity sales to its affiliates in

New Jersey

,

New York

, and

Pennsylvania

. On December 23, 2008, the FERC
issued an order granting the waiver request and the Ohio Companies made the
required compliance filing on December 30, 2008.

On
October 31, 2008, FES executed a Third Restated Partial Requirements Agreement
with Met-Ed, Penelec, and Waverly effective November 1, 2008. The Third Restated
Partial Requirements Agreement limits the amount of capacity and energy required
to be supplied by FES in 2009 and 2010 to roughly two-thirds of these
affiliates’ power supply requirements. Met-Ed, Penelec, and Waverly have
committed resources in place for the balance of their expected power supply
during 2009 and 2010. Under the Third Restated Partial Requirements Agreement,
Met-Ed, Penelec, and Waverly are responsible for obtaining additional power
supply requirements created by the default or failure of supply of their
committed resources. Prices for the power provided by FES were not changed in
the Third Restated Partial Requirements Agreement.

Capital
Requirements

Anticipated
capital expenditures for the Utilities, FES and FirstEnergy’s other subsidiaries
for the years 2009 through 2013, excluding nuclear fuel, are shown in the
following table. Such costs include expenditures for the betterment of existing
facilities and for the construction of generating capacity, facilities for
environmental compliance, transmission lines, distribution lines, substations
and other assets.


Capital
      Expenditures Forecast

Actual

(1)


2010-2013

Total

(In
      millions)

OE

$


$


$


$


Penn





CEI





TE





JCP&L





Met-Ed





Penelec





ATSI





FGCO

1,037


1,373

2,008

NGC



1,323

1,566

Other
      subsidiaries





Total

$

2,150

$

1,657

$

6,482

$

8,139

(1)

Excludes
      nuclear fuel, the purchase of lessor equity interests in Beaver Valley
      Unit 2 and Perry

($438 million),
      and the acquisition of Signal Peak ($125 million).

During
the 2009-2013 period, maturities of, and sinking fund requirements for,
long-term debt of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries are:


NGC's
investments for additional nuclear fuel during the 2009-2013 period are
estimated to be approximately $1.3 billion, of which about
$342 million applies to 2009. During the same period, its nuclear fuel
investments are expected to be reduced by approximately $1.0 billion and
$137 million, respectively, as the nuclear fuel is consumed.

The
following table displays operating lease commitments, net of capital trust cash
receipts for the 2009-2013 period.

FirstEnergy has been notified by the
lessor of certain vehicle and equipment leases of its election to terminate the
lease arrangements effective November 2009. FirstEnergy is currently pursuing
replacement lease arrangements with alternative lessors. In the event that
replacement lease arrangements are not secured, FirstEnergy would be required to
purchase the vehicles and equipment under lease at their unamortized value of
approximately $100 million upon termination of the
lease.

FirstEnergy expects its existing sources
of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet its anticipated obligations and those
of its subsidiaries. FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries' business is capital
intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses,
construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and interest and dividend
payments. During 2009 and in subsequent years, FirstEnergy expects to satisfy
these requirements with a combination of cash from operations

and

funds from the capital
markets.  FirstEnergy

also

expects that borrowing capacity under
credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital
requirements during those periods.

FirstEnergy had approximately $2.4
billion of short-term indebtedness as of Decem

ber 31, 2008, comprised of
$2.3

billion in
borrowings under

the

$2.75

billion revolving line of
credit

described below and
$102

million of other
bank borrowings. Total short-term bank lines of committed credit to
FirstEnergy

,

FES

and the

Utilities

as of December


1, 2008 were approximately
$4.0

billion.

FirstEnergy, along with certain of its
subsidiaries, are party to a $2.75 billion five-year revolving credit facility.
FirstEnergy has the ability to request an increase in the total commitments
available under this fa

cility up to a maximum of
$3.25

billion, subject
to the discretion of each lender to provide additional commitments. Commitments
under the facility are available until August 24, 2012, unless the lenders
agree, at the request of the

b

orrowers, to an unlimited number of
additional one-year extensions. Generally, borrowings under the facility must be
repaid within 364 days. Available amounts for each

b

orrower are subject to a specified
sub-limit, as well as applicable regulatory and other
limitations.  The annual facility fee is 0.125%.

As of

January 31, 2009

, FirstEnergy had $720 million of bank
credit facilities in addition to the $2.75 billion revolving credit facility.

Also, an aggregate of
$550

million of
accounts receivable financing facilities through the Ohio and Pennsylvania
Companies may be accessed to meet working capital requirements and for other
general corporate purposes. FirstEnergy's ava

ilable liquidity as of
January

31,


, is described in the following
table.


Company

Type

Maturity

Commitment

Available

Liquidity
      as of

January 31,

(In
      millions)

FirstEnergy

(1)

Revolving

Aug.

$

2,750

$


FirstEnergy
      and FES

Revolving

May



FirstEnergy

Bank
      lines

Various

(2)



FGCO

Term
      loan

Oct.

(3)



Ohio
      and Pennsylvania Companies

Receivables
      financing

Various

(4)



Subtotal

$

4,020

$

1,494

Cash

-

1,110

Total

$

4,020

$

2,604

(1)

FirstEnergy
      Corp. and subsidiary borrowers.

(2)

$100 million
      matures November 30, 2009; $20 million uncommitted line of credit
      with no maturity date.

(3)

Drawn
      amounts are payable within 30 days and may not be
    re-borrowed.

(4)

$370 million
      expires February 22, 2010; $180 million expires
      December 18, 2009.

FirstEnergy's primary source of cash for
continuing operations as a holding company is cash from the operations of its
subsidiaries.  During 2008, the holding company received $995 million
of cash dividends on common stock from its subsidiaries and paid $671 million in
cash dividends to common shareholders.

As of
December 31, 2008, the Ohio Companies and Penn had the aggregate capability to
issue approximately $2.8 billion of additional FMBs on the basis of
property additions and retired bonds under the terms of their respective
mortgage indentures. The issuance of FMBs by OE, CEI and TE is also subject to
provisions of their senior note indentures generally limiting the incurrence of
additional secured debt, subject to certain exceptions that would permit, among
other things, the issuance of secured debt (including FMBs) supporting pollution
control notes or similar obligations, or as an extension, renewal or replacement
of previously outstanding secured debt. In addition, these provisions would
permit OE, CEI and TE to incur additional secured debt not otherwise permitted
by a specified exception of up to $168 million, $179 million and
$117 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2008. On June 19, 2008,
FGCO established an FMB indenture. Based upon its net earnings and available
bondable property additions as of December 31, 2008, FGCO had the
capability to issue $3.0 billion of additional FMBs under the terms of that
indenture. Met-Ed and Penelec had the capability to issue secured debt of
approximately $376 million and $318 million, respectively, under
provisions of their senior note indentures as of December 31,
2008.

To the
extent that coverage requirements or market conditions restrict the
subsidiaries’ abilities to issue desired amounts of FMBs or preferred stock,
they may seek other methods of financing. Such financings could include the sale
of preferred and/or preference stock or of such other types of securities as
might be authorized by applicable regulatory authorities which would not
otherwise be sold and could result in annual interest charges and/or dividend
requirements in excess of those that would otherwise be incurred.

On
September 22, 2008, FirstEnergy and the Shelf Registrants filed an automatically
effective shelf registration statement with the SEC for an unspecified number
and amount of securities to be offered thereon. The shelf registration provides
FirstEnergy the flexibility to issue and sell various types of securities,
including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, share
purchase contracts, and share purchase units. The Shelf Registrants may utilize
the shelf registration statement to offer and sell unsecured, and in some cases,
secured debt securities.

Nuclear
Operating Licenses

Each of
the nuclear units in the FES portfolio operates under a 40-year operating
license granted by the NRC. The following table summarizes the current operating
license expiration dates for FES’ nuclear facilities in service.

Station

In-Service
      Date

Current
      License

Expiration

Beaver Valley
      Unit 1



Beaver Valley
      Unit 2



Perry



Davis-Besse




In August 2007, FENOC submitted an
application to the NRC to renew the operating licenses for the Beaver Valley
Power Station (Units 1 and 2) for an additional 20 years. The NRC is required by
statute to provide an opportunity for members of the public to request a hearing
on the application. No members of the public, however, requested a hearing on
the

Beaver

Valley

license renewal application. On
September 24, 2008, the NRC issued a draft supplemental Environmental Impact
Statement for

Beaver

Valley

. FENOC will continue to work with the
NRC Staff as it completes its environmental and technical reviews of the license
renewal application, and expects to obtain renewed licenses for the Beaver
Valley Power Station in 2009. If renewed licenses are issued by the NRC, the
Beaver Valley Power Station’s licenses would be extended until 2036 and 2047 for
Units 1 and 2, respectively

.

FENOC’s application for
operating license extensions for Beaver Valley Units 1 and 2 was accepted by the
NRC on November 9, 2007. Similar applications are expected to be filed for
Davis-Besse in 2010 and Perry in 2013. The NRC review process takes
approximately two to three years from the docketing of an application. The
license extension is for 20 years beyond the current license
period.

Nuclear
Regulation

On May
14, 2007, the Office of Enforcement of the NRC issued a DFI to FENOC, following
FENOC’s reply to an April 2, 2007 NRC request for information about two reports
prepared by expert witnesses for an insurance arbitration (the insurance claim
was subsequently withdrawn by FirstEnergy in December 2007) related to
Davis-Besse. The NRC indicated that this information was needed for the NRC “to
determine whether an Order or other action should be taken pursuant to 10 CFR
2.202, to provide reasonable assurance that FENOC will continue to operate its
licensed facilities in accordance with the terms of its licenses and the
Commission’s regulations.” FENOC was directed to submit the information to the
NRC within 30 days. On June 13, 2007, FENOC filed a response to the NRC’s DFI
reaffirming that it accepts full responsibility for the mistakes and omissions
leading up to the damage to the reactor vessel head and that it remains
committed to operating Davis-Besse and FirstEnergy’s other nuclear plants safely
and responsibly. FENOC submitted a supplemental response clarifying certain
aspects of the DFI response to the NRC on July 16, 2007. On August 15,
2007, the NRC issued a confirmatory order imposing these commitments. FENOC must
inform the NRC’s Office of Enforcement after it completes the key commitments
embodied in the NRC’s order. FENOC has conducted the employee training required
by the confirmatory order and a consultant has performed follow-up reviews to
ensure the effectiveness of that training. The NRC continues to monitor FENOC’s
compliance with all the commitments made in the confirmatory order.

Nuclear
Insurance

The
Price-Anderson Act limits the public liability which can be assessed with
respect to a nuclear power plant to $12.5 billion (assuming 104 units
licensed to operate) for a single nuclear incident, which amount is covered by:
(i) private insurance amounting to $300 million; and (ii) $12.2 billion
provided by an industry retrospective rating plan required by the NRC pursuant
thereto. Under such retrospective rating plan, in the event of a nuclear
incident at any unit in the United States resulting in losses in excess of
private insurance, up to $118 million (but not more than $18 million per unit
per year in the event of more than one incident) must be contributed for each
nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by the licensees thereof to
cover liabilities arising out of the incident. Based on their present nuclear
ownership and leasehold interests, FirstEnergy’s maximum potential assessment
under these provisions would be $470 million (OE-$40 million, NGC-$408
million, and TE-$22 million) per incident but not more than
$70 million (OE-$6 million, NGC-$61 million, and TE-$3 million)
in any one year for each incident.

In
addition to the public liability insurance provided pursuant to the
Price-Anderson Act, FirstEnergy has also obtained insurance coverage in limited
amounts for economic loss and property damage arising out of nuclear incidents.
FirstEnergy is a member of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL) which
provides coverage (NEIL I) for the extra expense of replacement power
incurred due to prolonged accidental outages of nuclear units. Under
NEIL I, FirstEnergy’s subsidiaries have policies, renewable yearly,
corresponding to their respective nuclear interests, which provide an aggregate
indemnity of up to approximately $2.0 billion (OE-$168 million, NGC-$1.7
billion, TE-$89 million) for replacement power costs incurred during an outage
after an initial 20-week waiting period. Members of NEIL I pay annual premiums
and are subject to assessments if losses exceed the accumulated funds available
to the insurer. FirstEnergy’s present maximum aggregate assessment for incidents
at any covered nuclear facility occurring during a policy year would be
approximately $18 million (OE-$1 million, NGC-$16 million, and TE-$1
million).

FirstEnergy
is insured as to its respective nuclear interests under property damage
insurance provided by NEIL to the operating company for each plant. Under these
arrangements, up to $2.8 billion of coverage for decontamination costs,
decommissioning costs, debris removal and repair and/or replacement of property
is provided. FirstEnergy pays annual premiums for this coverage and is liable
for retrospective assessments of up to approximately $61 million
(OE-$6 million, NGC-$52 million, TE-$2 million, Met Ed, Penelec and
JCP&L-$1 million in total) during a policy year.


FirstEnergy
intends to maintain insurance against nuclear risks as described above as long
as it is available. To the extent that replacement power, property damage,
decontamination, decommissioning, repair and replacement costs and other such
costs arising from a nuclear incident at any of FirstEnergy’s plants exceed the
policy limits of the insurance in effect with respect to that plant, to the
extent a nuclear incident is determined not to be covered by FirstEnergy’s
insurance policies, or to the extent such insurance becomes unavailable in the
future, FirstEnergy would remain at risk for such costs.

The NRC
requires nuclear power plant licensees to obtain minimum property insurance
coverage of $1.1 billion or the amount generally available from private
sources, whichever is less. The proceeds of this insurance are required to be
used first to ensure that the licensed reactor is in a safe and stable condition
and can be maintained in that condition so as to prevent any significant risk to
the public health and safety. Within 30 days of stabilization, the licensee is
required to prepare and submit to the NRC a cleanup plan for approval. The plan
is required to identify all cleanup operations necessary to decontaminate the
reactor sufficiently to permit the resumption of operations or to commence
decommissioning. Any property insurance proceeds not already expended to place
the reactor in a safe and stable condition must be used first to complete those
decontamination operations that are ordered by the NRC. FirstEnergy is unable to
predict what effect these requirements may have on the availability of insurance
proceeds.

Environmental
Matters

Various
federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and
water quality and other environmental matters. The effects of compliance on
FirstEnergy with regard to environmental matters could have a material adverse
effect on FirstEnergy's earnings and competitive position to the extent that it
competes with companies that are not subject to such regulations and, therefore,
do not bear the risk of costs associated with compliance, or failure to comply,
with such regulations. FirstEnergy estimates capital expenditures for
environmental compliance of approximately $608 million for the period
2009-2013.

FirstEnergy
accrues environmental liabilities only when it concludes that it is probable
that it has an obligation for such costs and can reasonably estimate the amount
of such costs. Unasserted claims are reflected in FirstEnergy’s determination of
environmental liabilities and are accrued in the period that they become both
probable and reasonably estimable.

Clean
Air Act Compliance

FirstEnergy
is required to meet federally-approved SO


emissions
regulations. Violations of such regulations can result in the shutdown of the
generating unit involved and/or civil or criminal penalties of up to $37,500 for
each day the unit is in violation. The EPA has an interim enforcement policy for
SO


regulations in Ohio that allows for compliance based on a 30-day averaging
period. FirstEnergy believes it is currently in compliance with this policy, but
cannot predict what action the EPA may take in the future with respect to the
interim enforcement policy.

The EPA
Region 5 issued a Finding of Violation and NOV to the Bay Shore Power Plant
dated June 15, 2006, alleging violations to various sections of the CAA.
FirstEnergy has disputed those alleged violations based on its CAA permit, the
Ohio SIP and other information provided to the EPA at an August 2006 meeting
with the EPA. The EPA has several enforcement options (administrative compliance
order, administrative penalty order, and/or judicial, civil or criminal action)
and has indicated that such option may depend on the time needed to achieve and
demonstrate compliance with the rules alleged to have been violated. On
June 5, 2007, the EPA requested another meeting to discuss “an appropriate
compliance program” and a disagreement regarding emission limits applicable to
the common stack for Bay Shore Units 2, 3 and 4.

FirstEnergy
complies with SO


reduction
requirements under the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 by burning lower-sulfur
fuel, generating more electricity from lower-emitting plants, and/or using
emission allowances. NO

X

reductions
required by the 1990 Amendments are being achieved through combustion controls
and the generation of more electricity at lower-emitting plants. In September
1998, the EPA finalized regulations requiring additional NO

X

reductions
at FirstEnergy's facilities. The EPA's NO

X

Transport
Rule imposes uniform reductions of NO

X

emissions
(an approximate 85% reduction in utility plant NO

X

emissions
from projected 2007 emissions) across a region of nineteen states (including
Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania) and the District of Columbia based
on a conclusion that such NO

X

emissions
are contributing significantly to ozone levels in the eastern United States.
FirstEnergy believes its facilities are also complying with the NO

X

budgets
established under SIPs through combustion controls and post-combustion controls,
including Selective Catalytic Reduction and SNCR systems, and/or using emission
allowances.


In 1999 and 2000, the EPA issued an NOV
and the DOJ filed a civil complaint against OE and Penn based on operation and
maintenance of the W. H. Sammis Plant (Sammis NSR Litigation)

and filed
similar complaints involving 44 other U.S. power plants. This case and seven
other similar cases are referred to as the NSR cases. OE’s and Penn’s settlement
with the EPA, the DOJ and three states (Connecticut, New Jersey and New York)
that resolved all issues related to the Sammis NSR litigation was approved by
the Court on July 11, 2005. This settlement agreement, in the form of a consent
decree, requires reductions of NO

X

and
SO


emissions at the Sammis, Burger, Eastlake and Mansfield coal-fired plants
through the installation of pollution control devices and provides for
stipulated penalties for failure to install and operate such pollution controls
in accordance with that agreement. Capital expenditures necessary to complete
requirements of the Sammis NSR Litigation consent decree are currently estimated
to be $506 million for 2009-2010 (with $414 million expected to be
spent in 2009). This amount is included in the estimated capital expenditures
for environmental compliance referenced above, but excludes the potential AQC
expenditures related to Burger Units 4 and 5 described below.

On September 8, 2008, the Environmental
Enforcement Section of the DOJ sent a letter to OE regarding its view that the
company was not in compliance with the Sammis NSR Litigation consent decree
because the installation of an SNCR at Eastlake Unit 5 was not completed by
December 31, 2006. However, the DOJ acknowledged that stipulated penalties
could not apply under the terms of the Sammis NSR Litigation consent decree
because Eastlake Unit 5 was idled on December 31, 2006 pending installation
of the SNCR and advised that it had exercised its discretion not to seek any
other penalties for this alleged non-compliance. OE disputed the DOJ's
interpretation of the consent decree in a letter dated September 22, 2008.
Although the Eastlake Unit 5 issue is no longer active, OE filed a dispute
resolution petition on October 23, 2008, with the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio, due to potential impacts on its
compliance decisions with respect to Burger Units 4 and 5.

On December 23,
2008, OE withdrew its dispute resolution petition and subsequently filed a
motion to extend the date (from December 31, 2008 to April 15, 2009), under the
Sammis NSR Litigation consent decree, to elect for Burger Units 4 and 5 to
permanently shut down those units by December 31, 2010, or to repower them or to
install flue gas desulfurization (FGD) by later dates. On January 30, 2009, the
Court issued an order extending the election date from December 31, 2008 to
March 31, 2009.

On
April 2, 2007, the United States Supreme Court ruled that changes in annual
emissions (in tons/year) rather than changes in hourly emissions rate (in
kilograms/hour) must be used to determine whether an emissions increase triggers
NSR. Subsequently, on May 8, 2007, the EPA proposed to revise the NSR
regulations to utilize changes in the hourly emission rate (in kilograms/hour)
to determine whether an emissions increase triggers NSR.  On December
10, 2008, the EPA announced it would not finalize this proposed change to the
NSR regulations.

On May
22, 2007, FirstEnergy and FGCO received a notice letter, required 60 days prior
to the filing of a citizen suit under the federal CAA, alleging violations of
air pollution laws at the Bruce Mansfield Plant, including opacity limitations.
Prior to the receipt of this notice, the Plant was subject to a Consent Order
and Agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
concerning opacity emissions under which efforts to achieve compliance with the
applicable laws will continue. On October 18, 2007, PennFuture filed a
complaint, joined by three of its members, in the United States District Court
for the Western District of Pennsylvania. On January 11, 2008, FirstEnergy filed
a motion to dismiss claims alleging a public nuisance. On April 24, 2008, the
Court denied the motion to dismiss, but also ruled that monetary damages could
not be recovered under the public nuisance claim. In July 2008, three additional
complaints were filed against FGCO in the United States District Court for the
Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on Bruce Mansfield Plant
air emissions. In addition to seeking damages, two of the complaints seek to
enjoin the Bruce Mansfield Plant from operating except in a “safe, responsible,
prudent and proper manner”, one being a complaint filed on behalf of twenty-one
individuals and the other being a class action complaint, seeking certification
as a class action with the eight named plaintiffs as the class representatives.
On October 14, 2008, the Court granted FGCO’s motion to consolidate
discovery for all four complaints pending against the Bruce Mansfield Plant.
FGCO believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against
the allegations made in these complaints.

On
December 18, 2007, the state of New Jersey filed a CAA citizen suit alleging NSR
violations at the Portland Generation Station against Reliant (the current owner
and operator), Sithe Energy (the purchaser of the Portland Station from Met-Ed
in 1999), GPU, Inc. and Met-Ed. Specifically, New Jersey alleges that
"modifications" at Portland Units 1 and 2 occurred between 1980 and 1995 without
preconstruction NSR or permitting under the CAA's prevention of significant
deterioration program, and seeks injunctive relief, penalties, attorney fees and
mitigation of the harm caused by excess emissions. On March 14, 2008,
Met-Ed filed a motion to dismiss the citizen suit claims against it and a
stipulation in which the parties agreed that GPU, Inc. should be dismissed from
this case. On March 26, 2008, GPU, Inc. was dismissed by the United States
District Court. The scope of Met-Ed’s indemnity obligation to and from Sithe
Energy is disputed.

On
October

30, 2008, the
state of

Connecticut

filed a Motion to Intervene, but
th

e Court has yet to rule
on

Connecticut

’s Motion.

On

December

5, 2008,

New Jersey

filed an amended complaint, adding
claims with respect to alleged modifications that occurred after GPU’s sale of
the plant

.

On
January 14, 2009, the EPA issued a NOV to Reliant alleging new source
review violations at the Portland Generation Station based on “modifications”
dating back to 1986.  Met-Ed is unable to predict the outcome of this
matter. The EPA’s January 14, 2009, NOV also alleged new source review
violations at the Keystone and Shawville Stations based on “modifications”
dating back to 1984. JCP&L, as the former owner of 16.67% of Keystone
Station and Penelec, as former owner and operator of the Shawville Station, are
unable to predict the outcome of this matter.


On June 11, 2008, the EPA issued a
Notice and Finding of Violation to MEW alleging

that "modifications" at
the Homer City

Power Station
occurred

since 1988 to the present without preconstruction NSR or
permitting under the CAA's prevention of significant deterioration program

. MEW is seeking indemnification from
Penelec, the co-owner (along with New York State Electric and Gas Company) and
operator of the Homer City Power Station prior to its sale in 1999. T

he
scope of Penelec’s indemnity obligation to and from MEW is disputed. Penelec is
unable to predict the outcome of this matter.

On May
16, 2008, FGCO received a request from the EPA for information pursuant to
Section 114(a) of the CAA for certain operating and maintenance information
regarding the Eastlake, Lakeshore, Bay Shore and Ashtabula generating plants to
allow the EPA to determine whether these generating sources are complying with
the NSR provisions of the CAA. On July 10, 2008, FGCO and the EPA entered
into an ACO modifying that request and setting forth a schedule for FGCO’s
response. On October 27, 2008, FGCO received a second request from the EPA for
information pursuant to Section 114(a) of the CAA for additional operating and
maintenance information regarding the Eastlake, Lakeshore, Bay Shore and
Ashtabula generating plants. FGCO intends to fully comply with the EPA’s
information requests, but, at this time, is unable to predict the outcome of
this matter.

On
August 18, 2008, FirstEnergy received a request from the EPA for information
pursuant to Section 114(a) of the CAA for certain operating and maintenance
information regarding the Avon Lake and Niles generating plants, as well as a
copy of a nearly identical request directed to the current owner, Reliant
Energy, to allow the EPA to determine whether these generating sources are
complying with the NSR provisions of the CAA. FirstEnergy intends to fully
comply with the EPA’s information request, but, at this time, is unable to
predict the outcome of this matter.

National
Ambient Air Quality Standards

In
March 2005, the EPA finalized the CAIR covering a total of 28 states
(including Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania) and the District of
Columbia based on proposed findings that air emissions from 28 eastern states
and the District of Columbia significantly contribute to non-attainment of the
NAAQS for fine particles and/or the "8-hour" ozone NAAQS in other states. CAIR
requires reductions of NO

X

and
SO


emissions in two phases (Phase I in 2009 for NO

X

, 2010 for
SO


and Phase II in 2015 for both NO

X

and
SO


),
ultimately capping SO


emissions
in affected states to just 2.5 million tons annually and NO

X

emissions
to just 1.3 million tons annually. CAIR was challenged in the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia and on July 11, 2008, the Court
vacated CAIR “in its entirety” and directed the EPA to “redo its analysis from
the ground up.”

On September 24,
2008, the EPA, utility, mining and certain environmental advocacy organizations
petitioned the Court for a rehearing to reconsider its ruling vacating
CAIR.  On December 23, 2008, the Court reconsidered its prior ruling
and allowed CAIR to remain in effect to “temporarily preserve its environmental
values” until the EPA replaces CAIR with a new rule consistent with the Court’s
July 11, 2008 opinion.

The future cost of compliance with these
regulations may be substantial and will depend, in part, on the action taken by
the EPA in response to the Court’s ruling.

Mercury
Emissions

In December 2000,
the EPA announced it would proceed with the development of regulations regarding
hazardous air pollutants from electric power plants, identifying mercury as the
hazardous air pollutant of greatest concern. In March 2005, the EPA finalized
the CAMR, which provides a cap-and-trade program to reduce mercury emissions
from coal-fired power plants in two phases; initially, capping national mercury
emissions at 38 tons by 2010 (as a "co-benefit" from implementation of
SO


and NO

X

emission
caps under the EPA's CAIR program) and 15 tons per year by 2018. Several states
and environmental groups appealed the CAMR to the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia. On February 8, 2008, the Court vacated the
CAMR, ruling that the EPA failed to take the necessary steps to “de-list”
coal-fired power plants from its hazardous air pollutant program and, therefore,
could not promulgate a cap-and-trade program. The EPA petitioned for rehearing
by the entire Court, which denied the petition on May 20, 2008. On
October 17, 2008, the EPA (and an industry group) petitioned the United
States Supreme Court for review of the Court’s ruling vacating CAMR. On February
6, 2009, the United States moved to dismiss its petition for certiorari. On
February 23, 2009, the Supreme Court dismissed the United States’ petition and
denied the industry group’s petition.  Accordingly, the EPA could take
regulatory action to promulgate new mercury emission standards for coal-fired
power plants. FGCO’s future cost of compliance with mercury regulations may be
substantial and will depend on the action taken by the EPA and on how they are
ultimately implemented.

Pennsylvania

has submitted a new mercury rule for
EPA approval that does not provide a cap-and-trade approach as in the CAMR, but
rather follows a command-and-control approach imposing emission limits on
individual sources. On January 30, 2009, the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania
declared

Pennsylvania

’s mercury rule “unlawful, invalid and
unenforceable” and enjoined the Commonwealth from continued implementation or
enforcement of that rule.  It is anticipated that compliance with
these regulations, if the

Commonwealth Court

’s rulings were reversed on appeal and

Pennsylvania

’s mercury rule was implemented, would
not require the addition of mercury controls at the Bruce Mansfield Plant,

FirstEnergy’s

only

Pennsylvania

coal-fired power plant, until 2015, if
at all.


Climate
Change

In
December 1997, delegates to the United Nations' climate summit in Japan adopted
an agreement, the Kyoto Protocol, to address global warming by reducing the
amount of man-made GHG, including CO


, emitted
by developed countries by 2012. The United States signed the Kyoto Protocol in
1998 but it was never submitted for ratification by the United States Senate.
However, the Bush administration had committed the United States to a voluntary
climate change strategy to reduce domestic GHG intensity – the ratio of
emissions to economic output – by 18% through 2012. Also, in an April 16,
2008 speech, former President Bush set a policy goal of stopping the growth of
GHG emissions by 2025, as the next step beyond the 2012 strategy. In addition,
the EPACT established a Committee on Climate Change Technology to coordinate
federal climate change activities and promote the development and deployment of
GHG reducing technologies. President Obama has announced his Administration’s
“New Energy for America Plan” that includes, among other provisions, ensuring
that 10% of electricity in the United States comes from renewable sources by
2012, and 25% by 2025; and implementing an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to
reduce GHG emissions 80% by 2050.

There
are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the
federal, state and international level. At the international level, efforts to
reach a new global agreement to reduce GHG emissions post-2012 have begun with
the Bali Roadmap, which outlines a two-year process designed to lead to an
agreement in 2009. At the federal level, members of Congress have introduced
several bills seeking to reduce emissions of GHG in the United States, and the
Senate Environment and Public Works Committee has passed one such bill. State
activities, primarily the northeastern states participating in the Regional
Greenhouse Gas Initiative and western states led by California, have coordinated
efforts to develop regional strategies to control emissions of certain
GHGs.

On April
2, 2007, the United States Supreme Court found that the EPA has the authority to
regulate CO


emissions
from automobiles as “air pollutants” under the CAA. Although this decision did
not address CO


emissions
from electric generating plants, the EPA has similar authority under the CAA to
regulate “air pollutants” from those and other facilities. On July 11,
2008, the EPA released an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, soliciting
input from the public on the effects of climate change and the potential
ramifications of regulation of CO


under the
CAA.

FirstEnergy
cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies,
although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO


emissions
could require significant capital and other expenditures. The CO


emissions
per KWH of electricity generated by FirstEnergy is lower than many regional
competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or
non-CO


emitting
gas-fired and nuclear generators.

Clean
Water Act

Various
water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal
Clean Water Act and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergy's plants. In addition,
Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have water quality standards applicable to
FirstEnergy's operations. As provided in the Clean Water Act, authority to grant
federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System water discharge permits
can be assumed by a state. Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have assumed such
authority.

On
September 7, 2004, the EPA established new performance standards under
Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish
from cooling water intake structures at certain existing large electric
generating plants. The regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality
(when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling
water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn
into a facility's cooling water system). On January 26, 2007, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit remanded portions of the rulemaking
dealing with impingement mortality and entrainment back to the EPA for further
rulemaking and eliminated the restoration option from the EPA’s regulations. On
July 9, 2007, the EPA suspended this rule, noting that until further rulemaking
occurs, permitting authorities should continue the existing practice of applying
their best professional judgment to minimize impacts on fish and shellfish from
cooling water intake structures. On April 14, 2008, the Supreme Court of
the United States granted a petition for a writ of certiorari to review

one significant aspect of the Second
Circuit Court’s opinion which is whether Section 316(b) of the Clean Water
Act authorizes the EPA to compare costs with benefits in determining the best
technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact at cooling
water intake structures.  Oral argument before the Supreme Court
occurred on December 2, 2008 and a decision is anticipated during the first half
of 2009.

FirstEnergy is studying various control options and their costs
and effectiveness. Depending on the results of such studies, the outcome of the
Supreme Court’s review of the Second Circuit’s decision, the EPA’s further
rulemaking and any action taken by the states exercising best professional
judgment, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require
material capital expenditures.

The U.S. Attorney's
Office in Cleveland, Ohio has advised FGCO that it is considering
prosecution under the Clean Water Act and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act for
three petroleum spills at the Edgewater, Lakeshore and Bay Shore plants which
occurred on November 1, 2005, January 26, 2007 and February 27,
2007.  FGCO is unable to predict the outcome of this
matter.


Regulation
of Hazardous Waste

As a
result of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and
the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, federal and state hazardous waste
regulations have been promulgated. Certain fossil-fuel combustion waste
products, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal
requirements pending the EPA's evaluation of the need for future regulation. The
EPA subsequently determined that regulation of coal ash as a hazardous waste is
unnecessary. In April 2000, the EPA announced that it will develop national
standards regulating disposal of coal ash under its authority to regulate
non-hazardous waste.

Under
NRC regulations, FirstEnergy must ensure that adequate funds will be available
to decommission its nuclear facilities. As of December 31, 2008,
FirstEnergy had approximately $1.7 billion invested in external trusts to
be used for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of Davis-Besse,
Beaver Valley, Perry and TMI-2. As part of the application to the NRC to
transfer the ownership of Davis-Besse, Beaver Valley and Perry to NGC in 2005,
FirstEnergy agreed to contribute another $80 million to these trusts by 2010.
Consistent with NRC guidance, utilizing a “real” rate of return on these funds
of approximately 2% over inflation, these trusts are expected to exceed the
minimum decommissioning funding requirements set by the NRC. Conservatively,
these estimates do not include any rate of return that the trusts may earn over
the 20-year plant useful life extensions that FirstEnergy (and Exelon for TMI-1
as it relates to the timing of the decommissioning of TMI-2) seeks for these
facilities.

The
Utilities have been named as PRPs at waste disposal sites, which may require
cleanup under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act of 1980. Allegations of disposal of hazardous substances at
historical sites and the liability involved are often unsubstantiated and
subject to dispute; however, federal law provides that all PRPs for a particular
site may be liable on a joint and several basis. Therefore, environmental
liabilities that are considered probable have been recognized on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008, based on estimates of
the total costs of cleanup, the Utilities' proportionate responsibility for such
costs and the financial ability of other unaffiliated entities to pay. Total
liabilities of approximately $90 million have been accrued through
December 31, 2008. Included in the total are accrued liabilities of
approximately $56 million for environmental remediation of former
manufactured gas plants in New Jersey, which are being recovered by JCP&L
through a non-bypassable SBC.

Fuel Supply

FES

currently has long-term coal contracts
with various terms to provide approximately 21.5 million tons of coal for
the year 2009, approximately 98% of

its

2009 coal requirements of 22 million
tons. This contract coal is produced primarily from mines located in

Ohio

,

Pennsylvania

,

Kentucky

,

West Virginia

and

Wyoming

. The contracts expire at various times
through December 31, 2030. See “Environmental Matters” for factors
pertaining to meeting environmental regulations affecting coal-fired generating
units.

I

n July 2008, FEV entered into a joint
venture with the Boich Companies, a Columbus, Ohio-based coal company, to
acquire a majority stake in the Bull Mountain Mine Operations, now called Signal
Peak, near Roundup, Montana. This transaction is part of

FirstEnergy’s

strategy to secure high-quality fuel
supplies at attractive prices to maximize the capacity of

its

fossil generating plants. In a related
transaction,

FirstEnergy

entered into a 15-year agreement to
purchase up to 10 million tons of bituminous western coal annually from the
mine.

FirstEnergy

also entered into agreements with the
rail carriers associated with transporting coal from the mine to

its

generating stations, and
expect

s

to begin taking delivery of the coal in
late 2009 or early 2010. The joint venture has the right to resell

Signal

Peak

coal tonnage not used at

FirstEnergy

facilities and has call rights on such
coal above certain levels.

FirstEnergy

ha

s contract

s

for all uranium requirements through
2010 and a portion of uranium material requirements through 2014. Conversion
services contracts fully cover requirements through 2011 and partially fill
requirements through 2015. Enrichment services are contracted for all of the
enrichment requirements for nuclear fuel through 2014. A portion of enrichment
requirements is also contracted for through 2020. Fabrication services for fuel
assemblies are contracted for both

Beaver

Valley

units and Davis Besse through 2013 and
through the current operating license period for Perry (through approximately
2026). The Davis-Besse fabrication contract also has an extension provision for
services for three additional consecutive reload batches through the current
operating license period (approximately 2017). In addition to the existing
commitments, FirstEnergy intends to make additional arrangements for the supply
of uranium and for the subsequent conversion, enrichment, fabrication, and waste
disposal services.

On-site spent fuel storage facilities
are expected to be adequate for Perry through 2011; facilities at Beaver Valley
Units 1 and 2 are expected to be adequate through 2015 and 2010,
respectively. Davis-Besse has adequate storage through the remainder of its
current operating license period. After current on-site storage capacity at the
plants is exhausted, additional storage capacity will have to be obtained either
through plant modifications, interim off-site disposal, or permanent waste
disposal facilities. FENOC is currently taking actions to extend the spent fuel
storage capacity for Perry and

Beaver

Valley

. Plant modifications to increase the
storage capacity of the existing spent fuel storage pool at Beaver Valley

Unit

2 will be submitted to the NRC for
approval during the first half of 2009, with implementation scheduled for 2010.
Dry fuel storage is also being pursued at Perry and

Beaver

Valley

, with Perry implementation scheduled to
begin in 2010.


The Federal Nuclear Waste Policy Act of
1982 provides for the construction of facilities for the permanent disposal of
high-level nuclear wastes, including spent fuel from nuclear power plants
operated by electric utilities. NGC has contracts with the

DOE

for the disposal of spent fuel for

Beaver

Valley

, Davis-Besse and Perry.

Yucca

Mountain

was approved in 2002 as a repository

for underground disposal of
spent nuclear fuel from nuclear power plants and high level waste from

U.S.

defense programs. The DOE submitted the
license application for

Yucca

Mountain

to the NRC on June 3, 2008. Based on
the DOE’s most recent published statements, the earlies

t date that the

Yucca

Mountain

r

epository will start receiving spent
fuel is 2020.

FirstEnergy

intend

s

to make additional arrangements for
storage capacity as a contingency for further delays with the DOE acceptance of
spent fuel for disposal past 2020.

Fuel oil and natural gas are used
primarily to

fuel peaking
units and/or to ignite the burners prior to burning coal when a coal-fired plant
is restarted. Fuel oil requirements have historically been lo

w and are forecasted to remain so;
requirements are

expected
to average approximately 5 million gallons per year over the next five
years. Due to the volatility of fuel oil price

s

, F

irstEnergy

has adopted a strategy of either
purchasing fixed

-

priced oil

for

inventory or using financial
instruments to hedge against

price

risk

.

Natural gas is consumed primarily by
peaking units, and the demand is forecast

ed

to range from approximately
3.5 million cubic feet (Mcf) in 2009

to

2.7 Mcf in 2010. Because of high price
volatility and

the

unpredictability of unit
dispatch, natural gas futures are purchased based on forecasted demand to hedge
against price movements

.

System
Demand

The 2008
net maximum hourly demand for each of the Utilities was: OE–5,579 MW on
June 9, 2008; Penn–1,063 MW on June 9, 2008; CEI–4,295 MW on
June 9, 2008; TE–2,050 MW on June 9, 2008; JCP&L–6,299 MW on
June 10, 2008; Met-Ed–3,045 MW on June 10, 2008; and Penelec–2,880 MW
on June 9, 2008

.

Supply
Plan

Regulated
Commodity Sourcing

The
Utilities have a default service obligation to provide the required power supply
to non-shopping customers who have elected to continue to receive service under
regulated retail tariffs. The volume of these sales can vary depending on the
level of shopping that occurs. Supply plans vary by state and by service
territory. JCP&L’s default service supply is secured through a statewide
competitive procurement process approved by the NJBPU. Penn’s default service
supply is provided through a competitive procurement process approved by the
PPUC. For the first quarter of 2009, the default service supply for the Ohio
Companies was sourced 4% from the spot market and 96% through a competitive
procurement process. Absent resolution of the ESP or MRO, the Ohio Companies
anticipate conducting a similar CBP for the period beginning April 1, 2009. The
default service supply for Met-Ed and Penelec is secured through a series of
existing, long-term bilateral purchase contracts with unaffiliated suppliers,
and through a FERC-approved agreement with FES. If any unaffiliated suppliers
fail to deliver power to any one of the Utilities’ service areas, the Utility
serving that area may need to procure the required power in the market in their
role as a PLR.

Unregulated
Commodity Sourcing

FES has
retail and wholesale competitive load-serving obligations in Ohio, New Jersey,
Maryland, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Illinois serving both affiliated and
non-affiliated companies. FES provides energy products and services to customers
under various PLR, shopping, competitive-bid and non-affiliated contractual
obligations. In 2008, FES’ generation service to affiliated companies was
approximately 95% of its total generation obligation. Depending upon the
resolution of regulatory proceedings relating to how the Ohio Companies will
obtain their supply and thereafter the results of any CBP or other procurement
process implemented in accordance with PUCO requirements, FES’ service to
affiliated companies may decrease, making more power available to the
competitive wholesale markets and potentially subjecting FES to greater
volatility in the prices it receives for its power. Geographically,
approximately 68% of FES’ obligation is located in the MISO market area and 32%
is located in the PJM market area.

FES
provides energy and energy related services, including the generation and sale
of electricity and energy planning and procurement through retail and wholesale
competitive supply arrangements. FES controls (either through ownership, lease,
affiliated power contracts or participation in OVEC) 13,973 MW of installed
generating capacity. FES supplies the power requirements of its competitive
load-serving obligations through a combination of subsidiary-owned generation,
non-affiliated contracts and spot market transactions.


Regional
Reliability

FirstEnergy’s
operating companies are located within MISO and PJM and operate under the
reliability oversight of a regional entity known as Reliability

First

. This regional entity
operates under the oversight of the NERC in accordance with a Delegation
Agreement approved by the FERC. Reliability

First

began operations under
the NERC on January 1, 2006. On July 20, 2006, the NERC was certified by
the FERC as the ERO in the United States pursuant to Section 215 of the Federal
Power Act and Reliability

First

was certified as a regional entity. Reliability

First

represents the
consolidation of the ECAR, Mid-Atlantic Area Council, and Mid-American
Interconnected Network reliability councils into a single regional reliability
organization.

Competition

As a
result of actions taken by state legislative bodies, major changes in the
electric utility business have occurred in portions of the United States,
including Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania where FirstEnergy’s utility
subsidiaries operate. These changes have altered the way traditional integrated
utilities conduct their business. FirstEnergy has aligned its business units to
accommodate its retail strategy and participate in the competitive electricity
marketplace (see Strategy and Outlook in the 2008 Annual Report of FirstEnergy).
FirstEnergy’s Competitive Energy Services segment participates in deregulated
energy markets in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Michigan, and Illinois through
FES.

In New
Jersey, JCP&L has procured electric supply to serve its BGS customers since
2002 through a statewide auction process approved by the NJBPU. The auction is
designed to procure supply for BGS customers at a cost reflective of market
conditions.

FirstEnergy
remains focused on managing the transition to competitive markets for
electricity in Ohio and Pennsylvania.  On May 1, 2008, the Governor of
Ohio signed SB221 into law, which became effective July 31, 2008. The new
law provides two options for pricing generation in 2009 and beyond – through a
negotiated rate plan or a competitive bidding process (see PUCO Rate Matters
above).  In Pennsylvania, all electric distribution companies will be
required to secure generation for customers in competitive markets by
2011.  On October 15, 2008, the Governor of Pennsylvania signed House
Bill 2200 into law, which became effective on November 14, 2008, as Act 129
of 2008. The new law outlines a competitive procurement process and sets targets
for energy efficiency and conservation (see PPUC Rate Matters
above).

Research
and Development

The
Utilities participate in the funding of EPRI, which was formed for the purpose
of expanding electric research and development under the voluntary sponsorship
of the nation’s electric utility industry - public, private and
cooperative. Its goal is to mutually benefit utilities and their customers by
promoting the development of new and improved technologies to help the utility
industry meet present and future electric energy needs in environmentally and
economically acceptable ways. EPRI conducts research on all aspects of electric
power production and use, including fuels, generation, delivery, energy
management and conservation, environmental effects and energy analysis. The
majority of EPRI’s research and development projects are directed toward
practical solutions and their applications to problems currently facing the
electric utility industry.

FirstEnergy
also participates in other research and development initiatives with industry
research consortiums and universities, including for the development of carbon
capture and coal-based fuel cell technologies.


Executive
Officers


Employees

As of
January 1, 2009, FirstEnergy’s subsidiaries had a total of 14,698 employees
located in the United States as follows:

Total

Bargaining
      Unit

Employees

Employees

FESC

3,355


OE

1,328


CEI

1,010


TE



Penn



JCP&L

1,470

1,113

Met-Ed



Penelec



ATSI


-

FES


-

FGCO

2,006

1,283

FENOC

2,829

1,031

Total

14,698

6,784

JCP&L's
bargaining unit employees filed a grievance challenging JCP&L's 2002
call-out procedure that required bargaining unit employees to respond to
emergency power outages. On May 20, 2004, an arbitration panel concluded
that the call-out procedure violated the parties' collective bargaining
agreement. At the conclusion of the June 1, 2005 hearing, the arbitration
panel decided not to hear testimony on damages and closed the proceedings. On
September 9, 2005, the arbitration panel issued an opinion to award
approximately $16 million to the bargaining unit employees. On February 6,
2006, a federal district Court granted a union motion to dismiss, as premature,
a JCP&L appeal of the award filed on October 18, 2005. A final order
identifying the individual damage amounts was issued on October 31, 2007.
The award appeal process was initiated. The union filed a motion with the
federal Court to confirm the award and JCP&L filed its answer and
counterclaim to vacate the award on December 31, 2007. JCP&L and the
union filed briefs in June and July of 2008 and oral arguments were held in the
fall. The Court has yet to render its decision. JCP&L recognized a liability
for the potential $16 million award in 2005.

The union employees at the Bruce
Mansfield Plant have been working without a labor contract since
February 15, 2008. The parties are continuing to bargain with the
assistance of a federal mediator. FirstEnergy has a strike mitigation plan ready
in the event of a strike

.

FirstEnergy
Web Site

Each of
the registrant’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or
furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are also made available free of charge on or through
FirstEnergy’s internet Web site at www.firstenergycorp.com. These reports are
posted on the Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
electronically filed with the SEC. Information contained on FirstEnergy’s Web
site shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be part of, this
report.

ITEM
1A. RISK FACTORS

We
operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which
are beyond our control.

The
following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should
be considered carefully when evaluating FirstEnergy and our subsidiaries. These
risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ
materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on
behalf of us.

Below, we have identified risks we currently consider
material. However, our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of
operations could be affected materially and adversely by additional risks not
currently known to us or that we deem immaterial at this time. Additional
information on risk factors is included in "Item 1. Business" and "Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and in other sections of this Form 10-K that include forward-looking
and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our
business and financial results.


Risks Related to Business
Operations

Risks
Arising from the Reliability of Our Power Plants and Transmission and
Distribution Equipment

Operation
of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including
the potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, fuel supply or
transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by
employees, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns,
shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational
restrictions resulting from environmental limitations and governmental
interventions, and performance below expected levels. In addition,
weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation,
transmission and distribution delivery systems. Because our transmission
facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our
facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events
occurring on the systems of such third parties.

Operation
of our power plants below expected capacity levels could result in lost revenues
and increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs.

Unplanned outages of generating
units

and

extensions of scheduled outages due to
mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an
inherent risk of

our

business. Unplanned outages typically
increase

our

operation and maintenance expenses and
may reduce

our

revenues as a result of selling fewer
MWH or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our
higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open
market to satisfy our forward power sales obligations.

Moreover,
if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, penalties or
liability for damages could result. FES, FGCO and the Ohio Companies are exposed
to losses under their applicable sale-leaseback arrangements for generating
facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render
those facilities worthless. Although we believe these types of events are
unlikely to occur, FES, FGCO and the Ohio Companies have a maximum exposure to
loss under those provisions of approximately $1.3 billion for FES, $800 million
for OE and an aggregate of $700 million for TE and CEI as
co-lessees.

We
remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our
franchised service territories. Meeting this commitment requires the expenditure
of significant capital resources. Failure to provide safe and reliable service
and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors,
including, but not limited to, equipment failure and weather, could adversely
affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and
operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse
regulatory outcomes.

Changes
in Commodity Prices Could Adversely Affect Our Profit Margins

We
purchase and sell electricity in the competitive wholesale and retail markets.
Increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal,
uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit margins. Changes in the market
price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and
other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial position by
increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to supply PLR and default service
obligations in Ohio and Pennsylvania.  In addition, the weakening
global economy could lead to lower international demand for coal, oil and
natural gas, which may lower fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on
electricity prices.

Electricity
and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of
time for a variety of reasons, including:

▪

changing
      weather conditions or seasonality;

▪

changes
      in electricity usage by our
customers;

▪

illiquidity
      in wholesale power and other
markets;

▪

transmission
      congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or
      inefficiencies;

▪

availability
      of competitively priced alternative energy
  sources;

▪

changes
      in supply and demand for energy
commodities;

▪

changes
      in power production capacity;

▪

outages
      at our power production facilities or those of our
      competitors;

▪

changes
      in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil
      and refined products; and

▪

natural
      disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other
      catastrophic events.


We
Are Exposed to Operational, Price and Credit Risks Associated With Selling and
Marketing Products in the Power Markets That We Do Not Always Completely Hedge
Against

We
purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based tariffs
authorized by the FERC, and also enter into short-term agreements to sell
available energy and capacity from our generation assets. If we are unable to
deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to
pay damages. These damages would generally be based on the difference between
the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract
price of the undelivered capacity or energy. Depending on price volatility in
the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant

.

Extreme weather conditions,
unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could
affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market
price of replacement capacity and energy.

We
attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales
arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy
our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm
transmission service. We also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and
power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements
and other energy-related commodities. We may not, however, hedge the entire
exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do
not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and
financial position could be negatively affected.

The
Use of Derivative Contracts by Us to Mitigate Risks Could Result in Financial
Losses That May Negatively Impact our Financial Results

We use a
variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options,
futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In the
absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external
sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves
management's judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the
underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the
reported fair value of some of these contracts.  Also, we could
recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of
these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform.

Our
Risk Management Policies Relating to Energy and Fuel Prices, and Counterparty
Credit Are by Their Very Nature Risk Related, and We Could Suffer Economic
Losses Despite Such Policies

We
attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt
positions. Procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance
with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and
market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis
and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. Nonetheless,
we cannot economically hedge all of our exposures in these areas and our risk
management program may not operate as planned. For example, actual electricity
and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the
historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. Also, our power
plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time
period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated
events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than
the prices under our energy supply contracts. In addition, the amount of fuel
required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more
than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less
favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. As a result, we cannot
always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if
actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions
were intended to hedge.

Our risk
management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties,
rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by
management of factors such as future market prices and demand for power and
other energy-related commodities.  These factors become more difficult
to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future
these estimates are made.  Even when our policies and procedures are
followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations
may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations
prove to be inaccurate.

We also
face credit risks from parties with whom we contract who could default in their
performance, in which cases we could be forced to sell our power into a
lower-priced market or make purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at
the time of executing the contract. Although we have established risk management
policies and programs, including credit policies to evaluate counterparty credit
risk, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully meet our
obligations, that we will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform
or that we will not experience counterparty non-performance or that we will
collect for voided contracts. If counterparties to these arrangements fail to
perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or
honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices. In that event, our
financial results could be adversely affected.


Nuclear
Generation Involves Risks that Include Uncertainties Relating to Health and
Safety, Additional Capital Costs, the Adequacy of Insurance Coverage and Nuclear
Plant Decommissioning

We are
subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the
following:

▪

the
      potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting
      from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our
      nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive
      materials;

▪

limitations
      on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover
      losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those
      of others in the United States;

▪

uncertainties
      with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is
      inadequate; and

▪

uncertainties
      with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning
      nuclear plants at the end of their licensed operation including increases
      in minimum funding requirements or costs of
  completion.

The NRC
has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and
safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities.
In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and/or
shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the
situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated
by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants,
including ours.  Also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear
facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the
operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit.

Our
nuclear facilities are insured under NEIL policies issued for each plant. Under
these policies, up to $2.8 billion of insurance coverage is provided for
property damage and decontamination and decommissioning costs. We have also
obtained approximately $2.0 billion of insurance coverage for replacement power
costs. Under these policies, we can be assessed a maximum of approximately $79
million for incidents at any covered nuclear facility occurring during a policy
year that are in excess of accumulated funds available to the insurer for paying
losses.

The
Price-Anderson Act limits the public liability that can be assessed with respect
to a nuclear power plant to $12.5 billion (assuming 104 units licensed to
operate in the United States) for a single nuclear incident, which amount is
covered by:  (i) private insurance amounting to $300.0 million;
and (ii) $12.2 billion provided by an industry retrospective rating plan. Under
such retrospective rating plan, in the event of a nuclear incident at any unit
in the United States resulting in losses in excess of private insurance, up to
$117.5 million (but not more than $17.5 million per year) must be
contributed for each nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by the
licensees thereof to cover liabilities arising out of the incident. Our maximum
potential exposure under these provisions would be $470.0 million per
incident but not more than $70.0 million in any one year.

Capital
Market Performance and Other Changes May Decrease the Value of Decommissioning
Trust Fund, Pension Fund Assets and Other Trust Funds Which Then Could Require
Significant Additional Funding

Our
financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy
our obligations to decommission our nuclear generation facilities and under
pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. The value of certain of
the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market
values. Changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of
these assets could affect the value of the trusts.  If the value
of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding
obligation to the trusts could materially increase. The recent disruption in the
capital markets and its effects on particular businesses and the economy in
general also affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy
future obligations to decommission our nuclear plants, to pay pensions to our
retired employees and to pay other funded obligations. These assets are subject
to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below
our projected return rates. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to
decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pensions and other
obligations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ
significantly from current estimates. Capital market conditions that generate
investment losses or greater liability levels can negatively impact our results
of operations and financial position.


We
Could be Subject to Higher Costs and/or Penalties Related to Mandatory NERC/FERC
Reliability Standards

As a
result of the EPACT, owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system
are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and approved
by FERC. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to
ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. Compliance with new
reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased
capital expenditures. If we were found not to be in compliance with the
mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including
substantial monetary penalties.

Reliability
standards that were historically subject to voluntary compliance are now
mandatory and could subject us to potential civil penalties for violations which
could negatively impact our business.  The FERC can now impose
penalties of $1.0 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory
electric reliability standards.

In
addition to direct regulation by the FERC, we are also subject to rules and
terms of participation imposed and administered by various RTOs and ISOs.
Although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by the FERC, they
can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in
nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, the
independent market monitors of ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling
rules to curb the potential exercise of market power and to ensure the market
functions. Such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price
we receive for, our energy and capacity.

We
Rely on Transmission and Distribution Assets That We Do Not Own or Control to
Deliver Our Wholesale Electricity. If Transmission is Disrupted Including Our
Own Transmission, or Not Operated Efficiently, or if Capacity is Inadequate, Our
Ability to Sell and Deliver Power May Be Hindered

We
depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by
utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. If
transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other
reasons) or not operated efficiently by independent system operators, in
applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and
deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we
may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. In addition, in
certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be deemed responsible for
congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones
during periods of high demand.  If we are unable to recover for such
congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely
affected.

Demand
for electricity within our utilities’ service areas could stress available
transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity
usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse
impacts to results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential
concerns over transmission capacity could result in MISO, PJM or the FERC
requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional
capital expenditures.

The FERC
requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an
open-access, non-discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed
to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is
possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be
available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to
transmit electricity as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry
changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission
facilities in specific markets or whether independent system operators in
applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related
services, efficiently.

Disruptions
in Our Fuel Supplies Could Occur, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to
Operate Our Generation Facilities and Impact Financial Results

We
purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. The lack of availability of fuel at
expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the
duration of our on-site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of
weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations
or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause
an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting
in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of
operations. Operation of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly
dependent on our ability to procure coal. Although we have long-term contracts
in place for our coal and coal transportation needs, power generators in the
Midwest and the Northeast have experienced significant pressures on available
coal supplies that are either transportation or supply related. If prices for
physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows could be materially adversely
affected.


Temperature
Variations as well as Weather Conditions or other Natural Disasters Could Have a
Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Demand Significantly Below or
Above our Forecasts Could Adversely Affect our Energy Margins

Weather
conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. Demand for power
generally peaks during the summer months, with market prices also typically
peaking at that time. Overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather
conditions. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently
received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. Severe weather, such
as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snow storms, or droughts or other natural
disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur
additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable
from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as
planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak
demand period.

Customer
demand that we satisfy pursuant to our default service tariffs could change as a
result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no
control. We satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio
approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual
relationships and market purchases. A significant increase in demand could
adversely affect our energy margins if we are required under the terms of the
default service tariffs to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased
demand at capped rates, which we expect would remain below the wholesale prices
at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had
available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional
supply. Accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

We
Are Subject to Financial Performance Risks Related to General Economic Cycles
and also Related to Heavy Manufacturing Industries such as Automotive and
Steel

Our
business follows the economic cycles of our customers. Declines in demand for
electricity as a result of economic downturns would be expected to reduce
overall electricity sales and reduce our revenues. Economic conditions also
impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts receivable, further increasing
our costs. A decrease in electric generation sales volume has been, and is
expected to continue to be, influenced by circumstances in automotive, steel and
other heavy industries.

Increases
in Customer Electric Rates and the Impact of the Economic Downturn May Lead to a
Greater Amount of Uncollectible Customer Accounts

Our
utility operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service
territories and those conditions could negatively impact our collections of
accounts receivable which could adversely impact our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.

The
Goodwill of One or More of Our Operating Subsidiaries May Become Impaired, Which
Would Result in Write-Offs of the Impaired Amounts

Goodwill
could become impaired at one or more of our operating subsidiaries. The actual
timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments in future years would depend on
many uncertainties, including changing interest rates, utility sector market
performance, our capital structure, market prices for power, results of future
rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of
comparable utility acquisitions and other factors.

We
Face Certain Human Resource Risks Associated with the Availability of Trained
and Qualified Labor to Meet Our Future Staffing Requirements

We are
challenged to find ways to retain our aging skilled workforce while recruiting
new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to
retirements. Mitigating these risks could require additional financial
commitments.

Significant
Increases in Our Operation and Maintenance Expenses, Including Our Health Care
and Pension Costs, Could Adversely Affect Our Future Earnings and
Liquidity

We
continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and
maintenance expenses. However, we expect to continue to face increased cost
pressures, including health care and pension costs. We have experienced
significant health care cost inflation in the last few years, and we expect our
cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to
continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take
requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their
health care benefits. The measurement of our expected future health care and
pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions,
many of which relate to factors beyond our control. These assumptions include
investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit design
changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory
requirements. If actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our
costs could be significantly increased.


Our Business
is Subject to the Risk that Sensitive Customer Data May be Compromised, Which
Could Result in an Adverse Impact to Our Reputation and/or Results of
Operations

Our
business requires access to sensitive customer data, including personal and
credit information, in the ordinary course of business. A security breach may
occur, despite security measures taken by us and required of vendors. If a
significant or widely publicized breach occurred, our business reputation may be
adversely affected, customer confidence may be diminished, or we may become
subject to legal claims, fines or penalties, any of which could have a negative
impact on our business and/or results of operations.

Acts
of War or Terrorism Could Negatively Impact Our Business

The
possibility that our infrastructure, such as electric generation, transmission
and distribution facilities, or that of an interconnected company, could be
direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war or terrorism, could
result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or
distribute electricity. Any such disruption could result in a decrease in
revenues and additional costs to purchase electricity and to replace or repair
our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations and financial condition.

Capital
Improvements and Construction Projects May Not be Completed Within Forecasted
Budget, Schedule or Scope Parameters

Our
business plan calls for extensive capital investments, including the
installation of environmental control equipment, as well as other initiatives.
We may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of
labor and materials used in construction. We have engaged numerous contractors
and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials
and/or obtain the required construction-related services. As a result, we are
also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could
breach their obligations to us. Such risk could include our contractors’
inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work
stoppages by that labor force. Should the counterparties to these arrangements
fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at
then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with
resulting delays in those and other projects. Although our agreements are
designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the
counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation
provisions. This could have negative financial impacts such as incurring losses
or delays in completing construction projects.

Changes
in Technology may Significantly Affect Our Generation Business by Making Our
Generating Facilities Less Competitive

We
primarily generate electricity at large central facilities. This method results
in economies of scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel
cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible
that advances in technologies will reduce their costs to levels that are equal
to or below that of most central station electricity production, which could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

We
May Acquire Assets That Could Present Unanticipated Issues for our Business
in the Future, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Realize Anticipated
Benefits of Those Acquisitions

Asset
acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: management
attention; integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the
requirements associated with the assets prior to acquisition, operating costs,
potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our
control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital
requirements.  Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability
to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated
benefits from any such asset acquisition.

Risks Associated With
Regulation

Complex
and Changing Government Regulations Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results
of Operations

We are
subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local
regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment.
Changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the
imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional
costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an
adverse impact on our results of operations.


Our
utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more
regulatory commissions. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may or
may not be set to recover its expenses at any given time. Additionally, there
may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs
are recovered. While rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to
earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses,
there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will
determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the
regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates
that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner.

Regulatory
Changes in the Electric Industry, Including a Reversal, Discontinuance or Delay
of the Present Trend Toward Competitive Markets, Could Affect Our Competitive
Position and Result in Unrecoverable Costs Adversely Affecting Our Business and
Results of Operations

As a
result of restructuring initiatives, changes in the electric utility business
have occurred, and are continuing to take place throughout the United States,
including Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. These changes have resulted, and
are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way
utilities conduct their business.

Some
states that have deregulated generation service have experienced difficulty in
transitioning to market-based pricing. In some instances, state and federal
government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to delay
market restructuring or even re-regulate areas of these markets that have
previously been deregulated. Although we expect wholesale electricity markets to
continue to be competitive, proposals to re-regulate our industry may be made,
and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring
process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in the
states in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. Such delays,
discontinuations or reversals of electricity market restructuring in the markets
in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our results of operations
and financial condition.

The FERC
and the U.S. Congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and
conduct of the electric utility industry. If the restructuring, deregulation or
re-regulation efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our
business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We cannot
predict the extent or timing of further efforts to restructure, deregulate or
re-regulate our business or the industry.

The
Prospect of Rising Rates Could Prompt Legislative or Regulatory Action to
Restrict or Control Such Rate Increases.  This In Turn Could Create
Uncertainty Affecting Planning, Costs and Results of Operations and May
Adversely Affect the Utilities’ Ability to Recover Their Costs, Maintain
Adequate Liquidity and Address Capital Requirements

Increases
in utility rates, such as may follow a period of frozen or capped rates, can
generate pressure on legislators and regulators to take steps to control those
increases. Such efforts can include some form of rate increase moderation,
reduction or freeze. The public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty
associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues, and the
ability to recover costs. Such uncertainty restricts flexibility and resources,
given the need to plan and ensure available financial resources. Such
uncertainty also affects the costs of doing business. Such costs could
ultimately reduce liquidity, as suppliers tighten payment terms, and increase
costs of financing, as lenders demand increased compensation or collateral
security to accept such risks.

Our
Profitability is Impacted by Our Affiliated Companies’ Continued Authorization
to Sell Power at Market-Based Rates

The FERC
granted FES, FGCO and NGC authority to sell electricity at market-based rates.
These orders also granted them waivers of certain FERC accounting,
record-keeping and reporting requirements. The Utilities also have
market-based rate authority.  The FERC’s orders that grant this
market-based rate authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority
if the FERC subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market
power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry or engage in
abusive affiliate transactions. As a condition to the orders granting the
generating companies market-based rate authority, every three years they are
required to file a market power update to show that they continue to meet the
FERC’s standards with respect to generation market power and other criteria used
to evaluate whether entities qualify for market-based rates. FES, FGCO, NGC and
the Utilities renewed this authority for PJM in 2008. Their applications to
renew this authorization for MISO are pending at the FERC. If any of these
companies were to lose their market-based rate authority or fail to have such
authority renewed, it would be required to obtain the FERC’s acceptance to sell
power at cost-based rates. FES, FGCO and NGC could also lose their waivers, and
become subject to the accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements that
are imposed on utilities with cost-based rate schedules.


There
Are Uncertainties Relating to Our Participation in Regional Transmission
Organizations (RTOs)

RTO
rules could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating
facilities to users in certain markets due to transmission constraints and
attendant congestion costs. The prices in day-ahead and real-time energy markets
and RTO capacity markets have been subject to price volatility. Administrative
costs imposed by RTOs, including the cost of administering energy markets, have
also increased. The rules governing the various regional power markets may also
change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. To the
degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate
in an RTO, and we are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail
customers, we may suffer financial harm. While RTO rates for transmission
service are designed to be revenue neutral, our revenues from customers to whom
we currently provide transmission services may not reflect all of the
administrative and market-related costs imposed under the RTO tariff. In
addition, we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities
built by others due to changes in RTO transmission rate design. Finally, we may
be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an
RTO rather than our internal planning process. As a member of an RTO, we are
subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the
allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other
participants in that RTO’s market, and those associated with complaint cases
filed against the RTO that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its
members.

MISO
implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that would be
simultaneously co-optimized with MISO's existing energy markets. The
implementation of these and other new market designs has the potential to
increase our costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation
dispatching, costs of participation in the market and costs associated with
estimated payment settlements.

Because
it remains unclear which companies will be participating in the various regional
power markets, or how RTOs will ultimately develop and operate, or what region
they will cover, we cannot fully assess the impact that these power markets or
other ongoing RTO developments may have.

Energy
Conservation and Energy Price Increases Could Negatively Impact our Financial
Results

A number
of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or
incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. Conservation programs
could impact our financial results in different ways. To the extent conservation
resulted in reduced energy demand or significantly slowed the growth in demand,
the value of our merchant generation and other unregulated business activities
could be adversely impacted. In our regulated operations, conservation could
negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated
impacts. Should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in
reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for
the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. We could
also be impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in
customer usage.  We are unable to determine what impact, if any,
conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition
or results of operations.

Our Business and Activities are Subject
to Extensive Environmental Requirements and Could be Adversely Affected by such
Requirements

We may be forced to shut down
facilities, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with
certain environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the
expenditures required to comply with such requirements are uneconomical. In
fact, we are exposed to the risk that such electric generating plants would not
be permitted to continue to operate if pollution control equipment is not
installed by prescribed deadlines.

Costs
of Compliance with Environmental Laws are Significant, and the Cost of
Compliance with Future Environmental Laws, Including Limitations on GHG

Emissions
Could Adversely Affect Cash Flow and Profitability

Our
operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental
statutes, rules and regulations. Compliance with these legal requirements
requires us to incur costs for environmental monitoring, installation of
pollution control equipment, emission fees, maintenance, upgrading, remediation
and permitting at our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in
the past and may increase in the future. If the cost of compliance with existing
environmental laws and regulations does increase, it could adversely affect our
business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Moreover,
changes in environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs
of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. Because of the
deregulation of generation, we may not directly recover through rates additional
costs incurred for such compliance. Our compliance strategy, although reasonably
based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant
standards and interpretations. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and
regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control or new interpretations
of longstanding requirements, that failure could result in the assessment of
civil or criminal liability and fines. In addition, any alleged violation of
environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant
resources to defend against any such alleged violations.


There
are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the
federal, state and international level. Environmental advocacy groups, other
organizations and some agencies in the United States are focusing
considerable attention on carbon dioxide emissions from power generation
facilities and their potential role in climate change.  Many states
and environmental groups have also challenged certain of the federal laws and
regulations relating to air emissions as not being sufficiently
strict.  There is a growing consensus in the United States and
globally that GHG emissions are a major cause of global warming and that some
form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with respect to GHG
emissions (including carbon dioxide) and such regulation could result in the
creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission
allowances.  As a result, it is possible that state and federal
regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on
emissions than are currently in effect. Although several bills have been
introduced at the state and federal level that would compel carbon dioxide
emission reductions, none have advanced through the legislature. Such
legislation could even make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to
maintain or operate. Due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions including

CO


, as
well as the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate
change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the
potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. In
addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our
emissions could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of carbon
dioxide legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of
fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing
electric generation facilities. Until specific regulations are promulgated, the
impact that any new environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines,
enforcement initiatives, or legislation may have on our results of operations,
financial condition or liquidity is not determinable.

The
EPA’s current CAIR and CAVR require significant reductions beginning in 2009 in
air emissions from coal-fired power plants and the states have been given
substantial discretion in developing their own rules to implement these
programs. On December 23, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia remanded CAIR to EPA but allowed the current CAIR
regulations to remain in effect while EPA works to remedy flaws in the CAIR
regulations identified by the court in a July 11, 2008 opinion. As a result, the
ultimate requirements under CAIR may not be known for several years and may
differ significantly from the current CAIR regulations. If the EPA significantly
changes CAIR, or if the states elect to impose additional requirements on
individual units that are already subject to CAIR, the cost of compliance could
increase significantly and could have an adverse effect on future results of
operations, cash flows and financial condition.

The EPA's final CAMR
was vacated by the United States Court of Appeals for the District Court of
Columbia on February 8, 2008 because the EPA failed to take the necessary
steps to "de-list" coal-fired power plants from its hazardous air pollution
program and therefore could not promulgate a cap and trade air emissions
reduction program.  On October 17, 2008, the EPA (and an industry
group) petitioned the United States Supreme Court for review of the Court’s
ruling vacating CAMR. On February 6, 2009, the United States moved to dismiss
its petition for certiorari. On February 23, 2009, the Supreme Court
dismissed the United States’ petition and denied the industry group’s petition.
Accordingly, the EPA could take regulatory action to promulgate new mercury
emission standards for coal-fired power plants. As a result of further
regulatory action by the EPA, the cost of compliance could increase
significantly and could have a material adverse effect on future results of
operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Various
water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal
Clean Water Act and its amendments, apply to our generating plants. In addition,
Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have water quality standards applicable to our
operations. As provided in the Clean Water Act, authority to grant federal
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System water discharge permits can be
assumed by a state. Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have assumed such
authority.

There is
substantial uncertainty concerning the final form of federal and state
regulations to implement Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act.  On
January 26, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
remanded back to the EPA portions of its rulemaking pursuant to Section 316(b).
The EPA subsequently suspended its rule, noting that until further rulemaking
occurs, permitting authorities should continue the existing practice of applying
their best professional judgment to minimize impacts on fish and shellfish from
cooling water intake structures. On April 14, 2008, the Supreme Court of
the United States granted a petition for a writ of certiorari to review

one significant aspect of the Second
Circuit Court’s decision.  Oral argument before the Supreme Court
occurred on December 2, 2008 and a decision is anticipated during the first half
of 2009.

Depending on the outcome of the Supreme Court’s review and
the nature of the final regulations that may ultimately be adopted by the EPA,
we may incur significant capital costs to comply with the final regulations.
 If either the federal or state final regulations require retrofitting of
cooling water intake structures (cooling towers) at any of our power plants, and
if installation of such cooling towers is not technically or economically
feasible, we may be forced to take actions which could adversely impact our
results of operations and financial condition.


Remediation
of Environmental Contamination at Current or Formerly Owned
Facilities

We are
subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating
environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of
property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated
regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we
owned or operated the facilities. Remediation activities associated with our
former MGP operations are one source of such costs. We are currently involved in
a number of proceedings relating to sites where other hazardous substances have
been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We
also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the
production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we
may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and
monitoring of these sites. Citizen groups or others may bring litigation over
environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage,
personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the
enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality
standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost
of litigation. We cannot predict the amount and timing of all future
expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties)
related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be
material.

In some
cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability
we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred
property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes
its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to
hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by
the financial resources of the transferee.

Availability
and Cost of Emission Credits Could Materially Impact Our Costs of
Operations

We are
required to maintain, either by allocation or purchase, sufficient emission
credits to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power
generation facilities. These credits are used to meet our obligations imposed by
various applicable environmental laws. If our operational needs require more
than our allocated allowances of emission credits, we may be forced to purchase
such credits on the open market, which could be costly. If we are unable to
maintain sufficient emission credits to match our operational needs, we may have
to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission credits, or
install costly new emissions controls. As we use the emissions credits that we
have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be
recognized as operating expense. If such credits are available for purchase, but
only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such credits could
materially increase our costs of operations in the affected
markets.

Mandatory
Renewable Portfolio Requirements Could Negatively Affect Our Costs

If
federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel
sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, and such legislation would
not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant
changes in our business, including renewable energy credit purchase costs,
purchased power and potentially renewable energy credit costs and capital
expenditures.  We are unable to predict what impact, if any, these
changes may have on our financial condition or results of
operations.

We
Are and May Become Subject to Legal Claims Arising from the Presence of Asbestos
or Other Regulated Substances at Some of our Facilities

We have
been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple
plaintiffs and multiple defendants. In addition, asbestos and other regulated
substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable
alternative materials are not available. We believe that any remaining asbestos
at our facilities is contained. The continued presence of asbestos and other
regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional
actions being brought against us.

The
Continuing Availability and Operation of Generating Units is Dependent on
Retaining the Necessary Licenses, Permits, and Operating Authority from
Governmental Entities, Including the NRC

We are
required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies
that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and
certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our
business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable
to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities
of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals
or certifications will be renewed.


Future Changes in Financial Accounting
Standards May

Affect Our
Reported Financial Results

The SEC, FASB or other authoritative
bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new
interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change
our accounting policies. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult
to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and
results of operations. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard
retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. The SEC has
issued a roadmap for the transition by

U.S.

public companies to the use of
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) promulgated by the
International Accounting Standards Board. Under the SEC’s proposed roadmap, we
could be required in 2014 to prepare financial statements in accordance with
IFRS. The SEC expects to make a determination in 2011 regarding the mandatory
adoption of IFRS. We are currently assessing the impact that this potential
change would have on our consolidated financial statements and we will continue
to monitor the development of the potential implementation of
IFRS.

Risks Associated With
Financing and Capital Structure

Interest
Rates and/or a Credit Rating Downgrade Could Negatively Affect Our Financing
Costs, Our Ability to Access Capital and Our Requirement to Post
Collateral

We have
near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to
variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the
extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt
obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. The recent
disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates
on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our
variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings (all of which
were eventually remarketed) of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to
finance certain of our facilities. Continuation of these disruptions could
increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations.
Also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that
our risk management processes were not established to address. As a result, we
cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on
us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management
positions were intended to hedge. Although we employ risk management techniques
to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases
in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and
negatively impact our reported results of operations.

We rely
on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash
requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. A downgrade in our credit
ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a
level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the
bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those
markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding
commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of
credit and other guarantees. A rating downgrade would also increase the fees we
pay on our various credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working
capital. A rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses
by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. Our
senior unsecured debt ratings from S&P and Moody’s are investment grade. The
current ratings outlook from S&P and Moody’s is stable.

A rating
is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold debt, inasmuch as such rating does
not comment as to market price or suitability for a particular investor. The
ratings assigned to our debt address the likelihood of payment of principal and
interest pursuant to their terms. A rating may be subject to revision or
withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be
evaluated independently of any other rating that may be assigned to our
securities.  Also, we cannot predict how rating agencies may modify
their evaluation process or the impact such a modification may have on our
ratings.

Our
credit ratings also govern the collateral provisions of certain contract
guarantees. Subsequent to the occurrence of a credit rating downgrade to
below investment grade or a “material adverse event,” the immediate posting of
cash collateral may be required. See Note 14(B) of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for more information associated with a credit ratings
downgrade leading to the posting of cash collateral.

We
Must Rely on Cash from Our Subsidiaries and Any Restrictions on Our Utility
Subsidiaries’ Ability to Pay Dividends or Make Cash Payments to Us May Adversely
Affect Our Financial Condition

We are a
holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets.
Substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries.
Consequently, our cash flow is dependent on the operating cash flows of our
subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. Our
utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that
generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are
being met. Those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the
ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash
payments to us.


We
Cannot Assure Common Shareholders that Future Dividend Payments Will be Made, or
if Made, in What Amounts they May be Paid

Our
Board of Directors regularly evaluates our common stock dividend policy and
determines the dividend rate each quarter. The level of dividends will continue
to be influenced by many factors, including, among other things, our earnings,
financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general
economic and competitive conditions. We cannot assure common shareholders that
dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the
same amount or with the same frequency as in the past.

Disruptions
in the Capital and Credit Markets May Adversely Affect our Business, Including
the Availability and Cost of Short-Term Funds for Liquidity Requirements, Our
Ability to Meet Long-Term Commitments, our Ability to Hedge Effectively our
Generation Portfolio, and the Competitiveness and Liquidity of Energy Markets;
Each Could Adversely Affect our Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial
Condition

We rely
on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term
liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. We also
use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our
hedging operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been
experienced during 2008, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our
respective credit facilities. Our access to funds under those credit facilities
is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to
the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those institutions may not be
able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital
and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests
within a short period of time.

Longer-term
disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty,
changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of
significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to
liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take
measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative
credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged.
Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging
strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or
eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of
cash.

The
strength and depth of competition in energy markets depends heavily on active
participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected by
disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Reduced capital and liquidity and
failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets
could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are
important to our business. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of
the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those
markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for
the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash
flows.

Questions
Regarding the Soundness of Financial Institutions or Counterparties Could
Adversely Affect Us

We have
exposure to many different financial institutions and counterparties and we
routinely execute transactions with counterparties in connection with our
hedging activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment
banks and other institutions and industry participants. Many of these
transactions expose us to credit risk in the event that any of our lenders or
counterparties are unable to honor their commitments or otherwise default under
a financing agreement. We also deposit cash balances in short-term
investments.  Our ability to access our cash quickly depends on the
soundness of the financial institutions in which those funds
reside.  Any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a
short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition.

Our Electric Utility
Operating Affiliates in Ohio are Currently in the Midst of Rate Proceedings that
have the Potential to Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition

As required by Amended Substitute Senate
Bill 221 (SB221),

Ohio

’s new electricity restructuring law,
our

Ohio

utility subsidiaries filed on
July 31, 2008 with the PUCO a comprehensive ESP and a

n

MRO. The ESP proposed, among other
things, to phase in new generation rates for customers beginning in 2009 for up
to a three-year period and to resolve a then pending distribution rate increase
request. The MRO filing outlined a competitive bid process for providing retail
generation supply at market prices in accordance with SB221 if the ESP was not
approved and implemented by our

Ohio

utilities. The PUCO rejected the MRO
filing on November 25, 2008 and we filed an application for rehearing on
December 22, 2008.


The PUCO modified the ESP on
December 19, 2008. We withdrew the ESP as so modified on December 22,
2008 opting instead to keep the current rate plan in effect, as we believe SB221
requires. Because our

Ohio

utilities do not own generating plants,
they subsequently completed a competitive procurement process to ensure a
reliable supply of electricity, for customers who do not shop, for the period
January 5, 2009 through March 31, 2009.

Subsequent to the competitive
procurement process, the PUCO ruled that our

Ohio

utilities could not continue certain
portions of their existing tariffs. Citing inconsistencies with Ohio law and
potentially serious financial consequences that could result from the PUCO’s
ruling, on January 9, 2009, we filed a motion to stay, as well as an
application for rehearing and an application for a fuel rider. On
January 9, 2009, an order was entered permitting our

Ohio

utilities to continue charging current
rates until the PUCO rules on the pending filings. On January 14, 2009, the
PUCO approved our Ohio utilities’ application to recover fuel and associated
purchased power costs

during the period
January 1, 2009

through March 31, 2009 subject to review by the
PUCO, and affirmed its January 9, 2009 order regarding our Ohio utilities’
ability to continue charging specific components of current
rates.

Substantial recovery under the fuel
rider is necessary to ensure that our

Ohio

utilities recover costs related to
their provider-of-last-resort obligation to their customers. Without such
recovery, providing generation service to their customers at rates that are well
below actual costs would cause them to incur a cash shortfall of approximately
$2 million per day. This could require our Ohio Utilities to make immediate
and severe reductions in operating and capital

expenditures

and could have other material adverse
impacts on the financial condition and results of operations of not only our

Ohio

utilities but also FirstEnergy. Any
resulting deterioration in our financial metrics could result in a downgrade of
our credit ratings.

On January 21, 2009, the PUCO
granted our

Ohio

utilities’ application for an increase
in distribution rates in the amount of $136.6 million in the aggregate for
all three companies, as well as the application for rehearing of the MRO
filing.

On
February 19, 2009, the Ohio Companies filed an application for an amended ESP
which substantially reflected the terms proposed by PUCO Staff to resolve the
ESP proceeding, which the PUCO attorney examiner set for a hearing to begin on
February 25, 2009 (see Regulatory Matters – Ohio).

ITEM
1B.   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM
2.      PROPERTIES

The
Utilities’ and FGCO’s respective first mortgage indentures constitute, in the
opinion of their counsel, direct first liens on substantially all of the
respective Utilities’ and FGCO’s physical property, subject only to excepted
encumbrances, as defined in the first mortgage indentures. See the “Leases” and
“Capitalization” notes to the respective financial statements for information
concerning leases and financing encumbrances affecting certain of the Utilities’
and FGCO’s properties.

FirstEnergy
has access, either through ownership or lease, to the following generation
sources as of February 25, 2009, shown in the table below. Except for the
leasehold interests and OVEC participation referenced in the footnotes to the
table, substantially all of the generating units are owned by NGC (nuclear) and
FGCO (non-nuclear). See "Generation Asset Transfers" under Item 1
above.


The
above generating plants and load centers are connected by a transmission system
consisting of elements having various voltage ratings ranging from 23 kV to
500 kV. The Utilities’ overhead and underground transmission lines
aggregate 15,070 pole miles.


The
Utilities’ electric distribution systems include 118,562 miles of overhead
pole line and underground conduit carrying primary, secondary and street
lighting circuits. They own substations with a total installed transformer
capacity of 87,624,000 kV-amperes.

The
transmission facilities that are owned by ATSI are operated on an integrated
basis as part of MISO and are interconnected with facilities operated by PJM.
The transmission facilities of JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec are physically
interconnected and are operated on an integrated basis as part of
PJM.

FirstEnergy’s
distribution and transmission systems as of December 31, 2008, consist of
the following:

*

Represents
      transmission lines of 69kV and above located in the service areas of OE,
      Penn, CEI and TE.

ITEM
3.      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Reference
is made to Note 14, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies, of
FirstEnergy’s Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in
Item 8 for a description of certain legal proceedings involving
FirstEnergy, FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec.

ITEM
4.      SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
HOLDERS

None.

PART
II

ITEM
      5.

MARKET
      FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER

MATTERS
      AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES

The
information required by Item 5 regarding FirstEnergy’s market information,
including stock exchange listings and quarterly stock market prices, dividends
and holders of common stock is included on page 1 of FirstEnergy’s 2008
Annual Report to Stockholders (Exhibit 13.1). Pursuant to General
Instruction I of Form 10-K, information for FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed
and Penelec is not required to be disclosed because they are wholly owned
subsidiaries.

Information
regarding compensation plans for which shares of FirstEnergy common stock may be
issued is incorporated herein by reference to FirstEnergy’s 2009 proxy statement
filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.


The
table below includes information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by
FirstEnergy of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2008.

Period

October

November

December

Fourth
      Quarter

Total
      Number of Shares Purchased

(a)

22,317

44,129

253,936

320,382

Average
      Price Paid per Share

$

54.66

$

54.39

$

55.94

$

55.64

Total
      Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or
      Programs

-

-

-

-

Maximum
      Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased
      Under the Plans or Programs

-

-

-

-

(a)

Share
      amounts reflect purchases on the open market to satisfy FirstEnergy's
      obligations to deliver common stock under its 2007 Incentive Compensation
      Plan, Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, Executive Deferred
      Compensation Plan, Savings Plan and Stock Investment Plan. In addition,
      such amounts reflect shares tendered by employees to pay the exercise
      price or withholding taxes upon exercise of stock options granted under
      the 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan and the Executive Deferred
      Compensation Plan, and shares purchased as part of publicly announced
      plans.

ITEM
6.      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

ITEM
      7.

MANAGEMENT’S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND

RESULTS
      OF OPERATIONS

ITEM
7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
RISK

ITEM
8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
DATA

The
information required by Items 6 through 8 is incorporated herein by reference to
Selected Financial Data, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operation, and Financial Statements included on the
following pages in the 2008 Annual Report of FirstEnergy (Exhibit 13.1) and
the combined 2008 Annual Report of FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed and
Penelec (Exhibit 13.2).

Item
      6*

Item
      7*

Item
      7A

Item

FirstEnergy

1-2

3-59

38-41

62-109

FES

N/A

N/A

3-5

8-12,
      91-145

OE

N/A

N/A

14-15

18-22,
      91-145

CEI

N/A

N/A

24-25

28-32,
      91-145

TE

N/A

N/A


38-42,
      91-145

JCP&L

N/A

N/A

44-46

49-53,
      91-145

Met-Ed

N/A

N/A

55-57

60-64,
      91-145

Penelec

N/A

N/A

66-68

71-75,
      91-145

*FES,
OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec meet the conditions set forth in
General Instruction I(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K and are therefore filing this
Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format specified in General Instruction
I(2) to Form 10-K.

ITEM
      9.

CHANGES
      IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING

AND
      FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM
9A.   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES -- FIRSTENERGY

Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures

FirstEnergy's
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have reviewed and evaluated
such registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e), as of the end
date covered by this report. Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that FirstEnergy's disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of December
31, 2008.


Management’s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. Using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework, management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
FirstEnergy's internal control over financial reporting under the supervision of
FirstEnergy's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based on that
evaluation, management concluded that FirstEnergy's internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. The
effectiveness of FirstEnergy's internal control over financial reporting, as of
December 31, 2008, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report
included in FirstEnergy's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders and incorporated by
reference hereto.

Changes in Internal Control
over Financial Reporting

There
were no changes in FirstEnergy's internal control over financial reporting
during the fourth quarter of 2008 that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, FirstEnergy's internal control over
financial reporting.

ITEM
9A(T). CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES -- FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed and
Penelec

Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures

Each
registrant's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have reviewed
and evaluated such registrant's disclosure controls and procedures, as defined
in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e), as of the
end date covered by this report. Based upon this evaluation, the respective
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that such
registrant's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December
31, 2008.

Management’s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. Using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework, management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of each
registrant’s internal control over financial reporting under the supervision of
such registrant’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based on
that evaluation, management concluded that each registrant’s internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. The
effectiveness of each registrant's internal control over financial reporting, as
of December 31, 2008, has not been audited by such registrant’s independent
registered public accounting firm.

Changes in Internal Control
over Financial Reporting

Related
to the remediation of the material weakness described below, there were changes
in internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2008
for OE, CEI, TE and Penelec. During the fourth quarter of 2008, management of
OE, CEI, TE and Penelec identified a material weakness in their accounting for
unpaid dividends to FirstEnergy. This material weakness was attributable to an
inadequate control to ensure that declared but unpaid dividends to FirstEnergy
were not reported as cash used for financing activities on the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for each of the affected registrants. As a result of
this material weakness, OE, CEI, TE and Penelec restated their Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2007, the three months
ended March 31, 2008, the six months ended June 30, 2008 and the nine months
ended September 30, 2008. The Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated
Balance Sheets were not affected by the error. In an effort to remediate the
identified material weakness, management of OE, CEI, TE and Penelec has
implemented a process to segregate dividend declarations with payments
applicable to future reporting periods in a unique general ledger account in
order to distinguish associated company dividends payable from other associated
company accounts payable. Management believes that this process is fully
functional, enhances the existing internal control over financial reporting and,
prior to the end of the period covered by this report, remediated the material
weakness in the internal controls related to the preparation and review of the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, which was identified in the fourth
quarter of 2008.

There
were no changes in internal control over financial reporting during the fourth
quarter of 2008 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, internal control over financial reporting for FES, JCP&L
and Met-Ed.

ITEM
9B.   OTHER INFORMATION

None.


PART
III

ITEM
      10.

DIRECTORS,
      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

The
information required by Item 10, with respect to identification of
FirstEnergy’s directors and with respect to reports required to be filed under
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, is incorporated herein
by reference to FirstEnergy’s 2009 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC pursuant
to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, with respect to
identification of executive officers, to “Part I, Item 1.
Business – Executive Officers” herein.

The
Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Audit
Committees, has determined that Ernest J. Novak, Jr., an independent director,
is the audit committee financial expert.

FirstEnergy
makes available on its Web site at http://www.firstenergycorp.com/ir its
Corporate Governance Policies and the charters for each of the following
committees of the Board of Directors: Audit; Corporate Governance; Compensation;
Finance; and Nuclear. The Corporate Governance Policies and Board committee
charters are also available in print upon written request to Rhonda S. Ferguson,
Corporate Secretary, FirstEnergy Corp., 76 South Main Street, Akron, OH
44308-1890.

FirstEnergy
has adopted a Code of Business Conduct, which applies to all employees,
including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief
Accounting Officer. In addition, the Board of Directors has its own Code of
Business Conduct. These Codes can be found on the Web site provided in the
previous paragraph or upon written request to the Corporate
Secretary.

Pursuant
to Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, the
Company submitted the Annual CEO Certification to the NYSE on May 23,
2008.

ITEM
      11.

EXECUTIVE
      COMPENSATION

ITEM
      12.

SECURITY
      OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
      STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

ITEM
      13.

CERTAIN
      RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
      INDEPENDENCE

The
information required by Items 11, 12 and 13 is incorporated herein by
reference to FirstEnergy’s 2009 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC pursuant to
Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

ITEM
14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

A
summary of the audit and audit-related fees rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 are as
follows:

Audit Fees

(1)

Audit-Related
      Fees

Company









(In
    thousands)

FES

$


$

1,091

$

-

$


OE

1,155

1,014

-

-

CEI



-

-

TE



-

-

JCP&L



-

-

Met-Ed



-

-

Penelec



-

-

Other
      subsidiaries



-

-

Total
      FirstEnergy

$

5,819

$

6,065

$

-

$


(1)

Professional
      services rendered for the audits of FirstEnergy’s annual financial
      statements and reviews of financial statements included in FirstEnergy’s
      Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and for services in connection with
      statutory and regulatory filings or engagements, including comfort letters
      and consents for financings and filings made with the
  SEC.

Tax
and Other Fees

There
were no other fees billed to FirstEnergy for tax or other services for the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Additional
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
FirstEnergy's 2009 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


PART
IV

ITEM
15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)

1.     Financial
Statements

Included
in Part II of this report and incorporated herein by reference to the 2008
Annual Report of FirstEnergy (Exhibit 13.1) and the combined 2008 Annual
Report of FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec (Exhibit 13.2) at the
pages indicated.

FirstEnergy

FES

OE

CEI

TE

JCP&L

Met-Ed

Penelec

Management
      Reports









Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm









Statements
      of Income, Three Years Ended December 31, 2008









Balance
      Sheets, December 31, 2008 and 2007









Statements
      of Capitalization, December 31, 2008 and 2007

N/A








Statements
      of Common Stockholders’ Equity, Three Years

Ended
      December 31, 2008









Statements
      of Cash Flows, Three Years Ended December 31, 2008









Notes
      to Financial Statements

65-108

91-145

91-145

91-145

91-145

91-145

91-145

91-145

2.

Financial
      Statement Schedules

Included
in Part IV of this report:

FirstEnergy

FES

OE

CEI

TE

JCP&L

Met-Ed

Penelec

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm









Schedule
      II -- Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts, Three Years Ended
      December 31, 2008









Schedules
other than the schedule listed above are omitted for the reason that they are
not required or are not applicable, or the required information is shown in the
financial statements or notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits
      – FirstEnergy

Exhibit

Number




3.
Exhibits – FES






(C)

Three
      substantially similar agreements, each dated as of the same date, were
      executed and delivered by the registrant and its affiliates with respect
      to three other series of pollution control revenue refunding bonds issued
      by the Ohio Water Development Authority and the Beaver County Industrial
      Development Authority relating to pollution control notes of FirstEnergy
      Generation Corp. and FirstEnergy Nuclear Generation
  Corp.

(D)

Seven
      substantially similar agreements, each dated as of the same date, were
      executed and delivered by the registrant and its affiliates with respect
      to one other series of pollution control revenue refunding bonds issued by
      the Ohio Water Development Authority, three other series of pollution
      control bonds issued by the Ohio Air Quality Development Authority and the
      three other series of pollution control bonds issued by the Beaver County
      Industrial Development Authority, relating to pollution control notes of
      FirstEnergy Generation Corp. and FirstEnergy Nuclear Generation
      Corp.

3.      Exhibits
– OE











3.      Exhibits
– Common Exhibits for CEI and TE




3.      Exhibits
– CEI




3.      Exhibits
– TE



3.      Exhibits
– JCP&L


3.
Exhibits - Met-Ed



3.
Exhibits - Penelec


3.
Exhibits - Common Exhibits for FES, Met-Ed and Penelec

10-1

Notice of
      Termination Tolling Agreement dated as of April 7, 2006; Restated Partial
      Requirements Agreement, dated January 1, 2003, by and among, Metropolitan
      Edison Company, Pennsylvania Electric Company, The Waverly Electric Power
      and Light Company and FirstEnergy Solutions Corp., as amended by a First
      Amendment to Restated Requirements Agreement, dated August 29, 2003 and by
      a Second Amendment to Restated Requirements Agreement, dated June 8, 2004
      (“Partial Requirements Agreement”). (March 2006 Form 10-Q filed by
      Metropolitan Edison Company, Exhibit 10-5)

10-2

Third Restated
      Partial Requirements Agreement, among Metropolitan Edison Company,
      Pennsylvania Electric Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, The Waverly
      Electric Power and Light Company and FirstEnergy Solutions Corp., dated
      November 1, 2008. (September 2008 Form 10-Q filed by Metropolitan Edison
      Company, Exhibit 10-2)

3.
Exhibits - Common Exhibits for FirstEnergy, FES, OE, CEI, TE, JCP&L, Met-Ed
and Penelec

10-1

$2,750,000,000
      Credit Agreement dated as of August 24, 2006 among FirstEnergy Corp.,
      FirstEnergy Solutions Corp., American Transmission Systems, Inc., Ohio
      Edison Company, Pennsylvania Power Company, The Cleveland Electric
      Illuminating Company, The Toledo Edison Company Jersey Central Power &
      Light Company, Metropolitan Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric
      Company, as Borrowers, the banks party thereto, the fronting banks party
      thereto and the swing line lenders party thereto. (Form 8-K filed August
      24, 2006, Exhibit 10-1)

10-2

Consent and
      Amendment to $2,750,000,000 Credit Agreement dated November 2, 2007.
      (2007 Form 10-K, Exhibit 10-2)


Report of Independent

Registered
Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedule

To the Stockholders and Board of
Directors of

FirstEnergy Corp.:

Our audits of the

consolidated

financial
statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
referred to in our report

dated February 24, 2009 appearing in the 2008
Annual Report to Stockholders of FirstEnergy Corp. (which report and
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement
schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this
financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      24, 2009


Report of Independent

Registered
Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedule

To the Stockholder and Board of
Directors of

FirstEnergy
Solutions Corp.:

Our audits of the

consolidated

financial
statements referred to in our report dated

February 24, 2009

appearing in the


Annual Report to Stockholders of

FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. (wh

ich report and

consolidated

financial statements are incorporated
by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K.

In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      24, 2009


Report of Independent

Registered
Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedule

To the Stockholder and Board of
Directors of

Ohio
Edison Company:

Our audits of the

consolidated
financial statements referred to in

our report

dated February 24,
2009 appearing in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders of Ohio Edison Company
(which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our
opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      24, 2009


Report of Independent

Registered
Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedule

To the Stockholder and Board of
Directors of

The
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company:

Our audits of the

consolidated
financial statements referred to in

our report dated

February 24,

appearing in the


Annual Report to Stockholders of The

Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company

(which report and

consolidated

financial
statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K)
also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item
15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K.

In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      24, 2009


Report of Independent

Registered
Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedule

To the Stockholder and Board of
Directors of

The
Toledo Edison Company:

Our audits of the

consolidated
financial statements referred to in

our report dated

February 24,

appearing in the


Annual Report to Stockholders of The

Toledo Edison Company

(which report and

consolidated

financial statements are incorporated
by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K.

In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      24, 2009


Report of Independent

Registered
Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedule

To the Stockholder and Board of
Directors of

Jersey
Central Power & Light Company:

Our audits of the

consolidated
financial statements referred to in

our report dated

February 24,

appearing in the


Annual Report to Stockholders of

Jersey Central Power & Light Company

(which report and

consolidated

financial
statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K)
also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item
15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K.

In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      24, 2009


Report of Independent

Registered
Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedule

To the Stockholder and Board of
Directors of

Metropolitan
Edison Company:

Our audits of the

consolidated
financial statements referred to in

our report dated

February 24,

appearing in the


Annual Report to Stockholders of

Metropolitan Edison Company

(which report and

consolidated

financial statements are incorporated
by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K.

In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      24, 2009


Report of Independent

Registered
Public Accounting Firm

on

Financial
Statement Schedule

To the Stockholder and Board of
Directors of

Pennsylvania
Electric Company:

Our audits of the

consolidated
financial statements referred to in

our report dated

February 24,

appearing in the


Annual Report to Stockholders of

Pennsylvania Electric Company

(which report and

consolidated

financial
statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K)
also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item
15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K.

In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP

Cleveland,
      Ohio

February
      24, 2009


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SCHEDULE
II


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
24, 2009


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
24, 2009


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
24, 2009

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
24, 2009


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
24, 2009

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
24, 2009


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
24, 2009

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
24, 2009


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
24, 2009

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
24, 2009


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
24, 2009

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
24, 2009


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
24, 2009

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
24, 2009


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  February
24, 2009

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:

Date:  February
24, 2009

97