ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

General

L Brands, Inc. (“we” or “the Company”) operates in the highly competitive specialty retail business. Founded in 1963 in Columbus, Ohio, we have evolved from an apparel-based specialty retailer to a segment leader focused on women’s intimate and other apparel, personal care and beauty categories that make customers feel sexy, sophisticated and forever young. We sell our merchandise through company-owned specialty retail stores in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom ("U.K."), which are primarily mall-based; through websites; and through international franchise, license and wholesale partners (collectively, "partners").

Victoria’s Secret

Victoria’s Secret, including Victoria’s Secret PINK, is the leading specialty retailer of women’s intimate and other apparel with fashion-inspired collections, prestige fragrances, celebrated supermodels and world-famous runway shows. We sell our Victoria’s Secret products at more than1,100Victoria’s Secret stores in the U.S., Canada and U.K. and online atwww.VictoriasSecret.com.  Additionally, Victoria’s Secret has more than300stores and various small-format locations in more than70other countries operating under franchise, license and wholesale arrangements.

Bath & Body Works

Bath & Body Works is one of the leading specialty retailers of home fragrance and personal care products including shower gels, lotions, soaps and sanitizers. We sell our Bath & Body Works products at more than1,600Bath & Body Works stores in the U.S. and Canada and online atwww.BathandBodyWorks.com.  Additionally, Bath & Body Works has80stores in23other countries operating under franchise, license and wholesale arrangements.

Other Brands

La Senza is a specialty retailer of women’s intimate apparel. We sell our La Senza products at more than140La Senza stores in Canada and online atwww.LaSenza.com. Additionally, La Senza has more than260stores in29other countries operating under franchise, license and wholesale arrangements.

Henri Bendel sells handbags, jewelry and other accessory products through our New York flagship and28other stores, as well as online atwww.HenriBendel.com.

Divestiture

On October 31, 2011, we divested51%of our ownership interest in our third-party apparel sourcing business to affiliates of Sycamore Partners.  Throughout2014, we continued to retain an ownership interest which we accounted for as an equity method investee.  Subsequent toJanuary 31, 2015, we divested our remaining ownership interest in the third-party apparel sourcing business.  For additional information, see Note8to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Fiscal Year

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31. As used herein, “2014,” “2013,” “2011” and “2010” refer to the 52-week periods endingJanuary 31, 2015,February 1, 2014,January 28, 2012andJanuary 29, 2011, respectively.  “2012” refers to the53-week period endingFebruary 2, 2013.

Real Estate

Company-owned Retail Stores

Our company-owned retail stores are located in shopping malls, lifestyle centers and street locations in the U.S., Canada and U.K.  As a result of our strong brand and established retail presence, we have been able to lease high-traffic locations in most retail centers in which we operate.  Substantially all of our stores were profitable in2014.









The following table provides the retail businesses and the number of our company-owned retail stores in operation for each business as ofJanuary 31, 2015andFebruary 1, 2014.

January 31, 2015February 1, 2014Victoria’s Secret Stores U.S.983977PINK U.S.11583Victoria’s Secret Canada3124PINK Canada1010Bath & Body Works U.S.1,5581,559Bath & Body Works Canada8879Victoria's Secret U.K.85PINK U.K.2—La Senza Canada145157Henri Bendel2929Total2,9692,923



The following table provides the changes in the number of our company-owned retail stores operated for the past five fiscal years:

Fiscal YearBeginningof YearOpenedClosedEnd of Year20142,92381(35)2,96920132,87681(34)2,92320122,94148(113)2,87620112,96840(67)2,94120102,97144(47)2,968

Franchise, License and Wholesale Arrangements

In addition to our company-owned stores, our products are sold at hundreds of partner locations in over 70 countries.  We have arrangements with unaffiliated partners to operate Victoria's Secret, Bath & Body Works and La Senza stores throughout the world.  Under these arrangements, third parties operate stores that sell our products under our brand names. Revenue recognized under franchise and license arrangements generally consists of royalties earned and recognized upon sale of merchandise by franchise and license partners to retail customers. Revenue is generally recognized under wholesale arrangements at the time the title passes to the partner.  We continue to increase the number of locations under these types of arrangements as part of our international expansion.

The following table provides the number of our international stores operated by our partners for each business as ofJanuary 31, 2015andFebruary 1, 2014.

January 31, 2015February 1, 2014Victoria’s Secret Beauty and Accessories290198Victoria’s Secret134PINK1—Bath & Body Works8055La Senza266331Total650588











Our Strengths

We believe the following competitive strengths contribute to our leading market position, differentiate us from our competitors and will drive future growth:

Industry Leading Brands

We believe that our two flagship brands, Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body Works, are highly recognized and others, including PINK and La Senza, exhibit brand recognition which provides us with a competitive advantage. These brands are aspirational at accessible price points and have a loyal customer base. These brands allow us to target markets across the economic spectrum, across demographics and across the world.

•At Victoria’s Secret, we market products to the college-aged woman with PINK and then transition her into glamorous and sexy product lines, such as Body by Victoria, Angels and Very Sexy. While bras and panties are the core of what we do, these brands also give our customers choices in loungewear, accessories, fragrances, personal care, swimwear and athletic attire.

•Bath & Body Works caters to our customers’ entire well-being, providing shower gels and lotions, aromatherapy, soaps and sanitizers, home fragrance and personal care accessories.

•In Canada, La Senza sells young women’s intimate apparel.  La Senza offerings include bras, panties, sleepwear, loungewear and accessories.

In-Store Experience and Store Operations

We view our customers' in-store experience as an important vehicle for communicating the image of each brand. We utilize visual presentation of merchandise, in-store marketing, music and our sales associates to reinforce the image represented by the brands.

Our in-store marketing is designed to convey the principal elements and personality of each brand. The store design, furniture, fixtures and music are all carefully planned and coordinated to create a unique shopping experience. Every brand displays merchandise uniformly to ensure a consistent store experience, regardless of location. Store managers receive detailed plans designating fixture and merchandise placement to ensure coordinated execution of the company-wide merchandising strategy.

Our sales associates and managers are a central element in creating the atmosphere of the stores by providing a high level of customer service.

Product Development, Sourcing and Logistics

We believe a large part of our success comes from frequent and innovative product launches, which include bra launches at Victoria’s Secret and La Senza and new fragrance launches at Bath & Body Works. Our merchant, design and sourcing teams have a long history of bringing innovative products to our customers. Additionally, we believe that our sourcing function (Mast Global) has a long and deep presence in the key sourcing markets including those in the U.S. and Asia, which helps us partner with the best manufacturers and get high-quality products quickly.

Experienced and Committed Management Team

We were founded in 1963 and have been led since inception by Leslie H. Wexner. Our senior management team has a wealth of retail and business experience at L Brands, Inc. and other companies such as Neiman Marcus, The Gap, Inc., The Home Depot, Land's End, Levi Strauss and Yum Brands. We believe that we have one of the most experienced management teams in retail.

Additional Information

Merchandise Suppliers

During2014, we purchased merchandise from approximately700suppliers located throughout the world. No supplier provided10%or more of our merchandise purchases.









Distribution and Merchandise Inventory

Most of our merchandise is shipped to our distribution centers in the Columbus, Ohio, area. We use a variety of shipping terms that result in the transfer of title to the merchandise at either the point of origin or point of destination.

Our policy is to maintain sufficient quantities of inventories on hand in our retail stores and distribution centers to enable us to offer customers an appropriate selection of current merchandise. We emphasize rapid turnover and take markdowns as required to keep merchandise fresh and current.

Information Systems

Our management information systems consist of a full range of retail, financial and merchandising systems. The systems include applications related to point-of-sale, e-commerce, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management, data security and support systems including human resources and finance. We continue to invest in technology to upgrade core systems to continue to improve our efficiency and accuracy in the production and delivery of merchandise to our stores.

Seasonal Business

Our operations are seasonal in nature and consist of two principal selling seasons: Spring (the first and second quarters) and Fall (the third and fourth quarters). The fourth quarter, including the holiday season, accounted for approximately one-third of our net sales for2014,2013and2012and is typically our most profitable quarter. Accordingly, cash requirements are highest in the third quarter as our inventories build in advance of the holiday season.

Working Capital

We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents and cash flows generated from operations.  In addition, our revolving credit facility is available for additional working capital needs and investment opportunities.

Regulation

We and our products are subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities. We are subject to a variety of customs regulations and international trade arrangements.

Trademarks and Patents

Our trademarks and patents, which constitute our primary intellectual property, have been registered or are the subject of pending applications in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law. We believe our products are identified by our intellectual property and, thus, our intellectual property is of significant value.  Accordingly, we intend to maintain our intellectual property and related registrations and vigorously protect our intellectual property assets against infringement.

Segment Information

In the first quarter of2014, we announced a change in our reportable segments.  Results from company-owned Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works stores in Canada were reclassified from Other into the corresponding Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works segments. Additionally, a new segment called Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works International was created which includes the Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works company-owned and partner-operated stores outside of the United States and Canada. Therefore, beginning in2014, we have three reportable segments: Victoria’s Secret, Bath & Body Works and Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works International. While this reporting change did not impact the Company's consolidated results, the segment data has been recast to be consistent for all periods presented throughout the financial statements and accompanying footnotes. For additional information, including the financial results of our reportable segments, see Note20to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Other Information

For additional information about our business, including our net sales and profits for the last three years and selling square footage, see Item7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.









Competition

The sale of women’s intimate and other apparel, personal care and beauty products and accessories through retail stores is a highly competitive business with numerous competitors, including individual and chain specialty stores, department stores and discount retailers. Brand image, marketing, design, price, service, assortment and quality are the principal competitive factors in retail store sales. Our online businesses compete with numerous online merchandisers. Image presentation, fulfillment and the factors affecting retail store sales discussed above are the principal competitive factors in online sales.

Associate Relations

As ofJanuary 31, 2015, we employed approximately80,100associates;59,900of whom were part-time. In addition, temporary associates are hired during peak periods, such as the holiday season.

Executive Officers of Registrant

Set forth below is certain information regarding our executive officers.

Leslie H. Wexner,77, has been our Chief Executive Officer since our founding in 1963 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1975.

Stuart B. Burgdoerfer,51, has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2007.

Nicholas P. M. Coe,52, has been our Chief Executive Officer and President of Bath & Body Works since August 2011.

Charles C. McGuigan,58, has been our Chief Operating Officer since May 2012 and our Chief Executive Officer and President of Mast Global since February 2011.

Sharen J. Turney,58, has been our Chief Executive Officer and President of Victoria’s Secret since July 2006.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  Copies of these reports, proxy statements and other information can be read and copied at:

SEC Public Reference Room

100 F Street NE

Washington, D.C. 20549

Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.  Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our website atwww.lb.com.

Copies of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to:

L Brands, Inc.

Investor Relations Department

Three Limited Parkway

Columbus, Ohio 43230













