ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

GENERAL.

We operate in the highly competitive specialty retail business. We are a retailer
of women’s intimate and other apparel, beauty and personal care products and accessories under various trade names. We sell our merchandise primarily through our retail stores in the United States and Canada and through our websites and
catalogues.

FISCAL YEAR.

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31. As used herein, “2010”, “2009”, “2008”, “2007” and “2005” refer to the 52 week periods ending January 29,
2011, January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009, February 2, 2008 and January 28, 2006, respectively. “2006” refers to the 53 week period ended February 3, 2007.

DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS.

Our Company

We are committed to building a family of the world’s best fashion retail brands, offering captivating customer experiences that drive
long-term loyalty and deliver sustained value for our stakeholders. Founded in 1963 in Columbus, Ohio, we have evolved from an apparel-based specialty retailer to an approximately $9 billion segment leader focused on lingerie, beauty and personal
care product categories that make customers feel sexy, sophisticated and forever young.

We lead these product categories through ourVictoria’s SecretandBath & Body Worksbrands. We sell our products at more than 1,000 Victoria’s Secret stores and more than 1,600 Bath & Body Works stores nationwide, via the Victoria’s Secret
Catalogue and online at www.VictoriasSecret.com and www.BathandBodyWorks.com. We also sell upscale accessory products through our Henri Bendel flagship and 10 accessory stores, as well as online at www.HenriBendel.com. Through our La Senza,
Bath & Body Works and Pink brands, products are also available in retail venues in Canada. Additionally, La Senza has franchising relationships in 49 countries around the globe. Victoria’s Secret products are also made available on a
wholesale basis to duty-free stores and other international retail locations.

Victoria’s Secret is the leading U.S.
specialty retailer of lingerie with modern, fashion-inspired collections, prestige fragrances and cosmetics, celebrated supermodels and world-famous runway shows. Victoria’s Secret lingerie and beauty stores, the catalogue and
www.VictoriasSecret.com allow customers to shop the brand anywhere, any time, from any place for glamorous and sexy products from lines such as Very Sexy®, Body by Victoria®, Angels by
Victoria’s Secret®, VS Cotton™, BioFit®and Victoria’s Secret Pink®, and luxurious beauty products from lines such as Dream Angels™, Victoria’s Secret Pink®,
Beauty Rush®and Very Sexy®.

Bath & Body Works has reinvented the personal
care industry with the introduction of fragrant flavorful indulgences, including shower gels, lotions, antibacterial soaps, candles and accessories. Combining the introduction of spa products that are easily used at home with the incorporation of
simple rituals into daily life, Bath & Body Works is committed to helping consumers improve their emotional and physical well-being. With a focus on creating and offering the best products and an emphasis on innovation, Bath & Body
Works is the ultimate personal care destination.









Real Estate

The following chart provides the retail businesses and the number of our company-owned retail stores in operation for each business as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009.



January 30,2010January 31,2009Victoria’s Secret Stores1,0401,043Bath & Body Works1,6271,638La Senza258322Henri Bendel115Bath & Body Works Canada316Victoria’s Secret Pink Canada4—Total2,9713,014

The following table provides the changes in the number of our
company-owned retail stores operated for the past five fiscal years:



Fiscal YearBeginningof YearOpenedClosedAcquired/DivestedBusinessesEnd of Year20093,01459(102)—2,97120082,926145(57)—3,01420073,766129(100)(869)(a)2,92620063,59052(169)293(b)3,76620053,77950(239)—3,590



(a)Express and Limited Stores were divested in July 2007 and August 2007, respectively.

(b)Represents stores acquired in the La Senza acquisition on January 12, 2007.

Our Strengths

We believe the following competitive strengths contribute to our leading
market position, differentiate us from our competitors, and will drive future growth:

Industry Leading Brands

We believe that our two flagship brands,Victoria’s SecretandBath & Body Works, are almost universally recognized and others
includingPinkandLa Senza, exhibit brand recognition which provides us with a competitive advantage. These brands are aspirational at accessible price points, and have a loyal customer base. These brands allow us to target markets
across the economic spectrum, across demographics and across the world.



•At Victoria’s Secret, we market products to the late-teen and college-age woman with Pink and then transition her into glamorous and sexy product
lines, such as Angels, Very Sexy or Body by Victoria. While bras and panties are the core of what we do, these brands also give our customers choices in clothing, accessories, fragrances, lotions, cosmetics, swimwear and athletic attire.



•Bath & Body Works caters to our customers’ entire well-being, providing shower gels and lotions, aromatherapy, antibacterial soaps,
candles and personal care accessories.



•In Canada, La Senza is a leader in the intimate apparel market.









In-Store Experience and
Store Operations

We view the customer’s in-store experience as an important vehicle for communicating the image of each brand. We
utilize visual presentation of merchandise, in-store marketing, music and our sales associates to reinforce the image represented by the brands.

Our in-store marketing is designed to convey the principal elements and personality of each brand. The store design, furniture, fixtures and music are all carefully planned and coordinated to create a shopping experience. Every brand
displays merchandise uniformly to ensure a consistent store experience, regardless of location. Store managers receive detailed plans designating fixture and merchandise placement to ensure coordinated execution of the company-wide merchandising
strategy.

Our sales associates and managers are a central element in creating the atmosphere of the stores by providing a high level of
customer service.

Product Development, Sourcing and Logistics

We believe a large part of our success comes from frequent and innovative product launches, which include bra launches at Victoria’s Secret and the recent restage of the Signature Collection and
antibacterial lines at Bath & Body Works. Our merchant, design and sourcing teams at Victoria’s Secret and our apparel sourcing function have a long history of bringing new products to our customers. Our personal care sourcing function
works with our merchant teams to bring new ideas to the Bath & Body Works and Victoria’s Secret Beauty customer.

We have an
integrated supply chain leading from our key manufacturing partners around the world, through our distribution centers in Columbus, Ohio, to our stores. We believe that our apparel sourcing function has a long and deep presence in the key sourcing
markets of Asia, which helps us partner with the best manufacturers and get high quality products to our customers quickly.

Experienced
and Committed Management Team

We were founded in 1963 and have been led since inception by Leslie H. Wexner. Our senior management
team has a wealth of retail and business experience at Limited Brands and other companies such as Nieman Marcus, Target, The Gap, Inc., The Home Depot, Carlson Companies and Yum Brands. We believe that we have one of the most experienced management
teams in retail.

Additional Information

Merchandise Suppliers

During 2009, we purchased merchandise from over 1,000
suppliers located throughout the world. No supplier provided 10% or more of our merchandise purchases.

Distribution and Merchandise
Inventory

Most of the merchandise and related materials for our stores are shipped to our distribution centers in the Columbus, Ohio
area. We use a variety of shipping terms that result in the transfer of title to the merchandise at either the point of origin or point of destination.

Our policy is to maintain sufficient quantities of inventories on hand in our retail stores and distribution centers to enable us to offer customers an appropriate selection of current merchandise. We
emphasize rapid turnover and take markdowns as required to keep merchandise fresh and current.









Information Systems

Our management information systems consist of a full range of retail, financial and merchandising systems. The systems include applications related to point-of-sale, e-commerce, merchandising, planning,
sourcing, logistics, inventory management and support systems including human resources and finance. We continue to invest in technology to upgrade core systems to continue to improve our efficiency and accuracy in the production and delivery of
merchandise to our stores.

Seasonal Business

Our operations are seasonal in nature and consist of two principal selling seasons: Spring (the first and second quarters) and Fall (the third and fourth quarters). The fourth quarter, including the
holiday season, accounted for approximately one-third of our net sales for 2009, 2008 and 2007 and is typically our most profitable quarter. Accordingly, cash requirements are highest in the third quarter as our inventories build in advance of the
holiday season.

Regulation

We and our products are subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and international regulatory authorities. We are subject to a variety of customs regulations and international trade arrangements.

Trademarks and Patents

Our
trademarks and patents, which constitute our primary intellectual property, have been registered or are the subject of pending applications in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are
protected by common law. We believe our products and services are identified by our intellectual property and, thus, our intellectual property is of significant value. Accordingly, we intend to maintain our intellectual property and related
registrations and vigorously protect our intellectual property assets against infringement.

Segment Information

We have two reportable segments: Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body Works. The Victoria’s Secret reportable segment consists of the
Victoria’s Secret and La Senza operating segments which are aggregated in accordance with the authoritative guidance included in Accounting Standards Codification Subtopic 280,Segment Reporting.

Other Information

For additional
information about our business, including our net sales and profits for the last three years and selling square footage, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. For the financial
results of our reportable segments, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

COMPETITION.

The sale of women’s intimate and other apparel, personal care and beauty
products and accessories through retail stores is a highly competitive business with numerous competitors, including individual and chain specialty stores, department stores and discount retailers. Brand image, marketing, design, price, service,
assortment and quality are the principal competitive factors in retail store sales. Our direct response businesses compete with numerous national and regional direct response merchandisers. Image presentation, fulfillment and the factors affecting
retail store sales discussed above are the principal competitive factors in direct response sales.









ASSOCIATE RELATIONS.

On January 30, 2010, we employed approximately 92,100 associates, 75,000 of whom were part-time. In addition, temporary associates are
hired during peak periods, such as the holiday season.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

Set forth below is certain information regarding our executive officers.

Leslie H. Wexner, 72, has been our Chairman of the Board of Directors for more than thirty years and our Chief Executive Officer since our founding in 1963.

Martyn R. Redgrave, 57, has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since March 2005. In addition,
Mr. Redgrave was our Chief Financial Officer from September 2006 to April 2007.

Stuart B.
Burgdoerfer, 47, has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2007.

Sharen
J. Turney, 53, has been our Chief Executive Officer and President of Victoria’s Secret since July 2006.

Diane L. Neal, 53, has been our Chief Executive Officer and President of Bath & Body Works since June 2007.

Jane L. Ramsey, 52, has been our Executive Vice President, Human Resources, since April 2006.

All of the above officers serve at the discretion of our Board of Directors and are members of our Executive Committee.

AVAILABLE
INFORMATION.

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports and
code of conduct are available, free of charge, on our website,www.LimitedBrands.com. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”).

