ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

General

We operate in the highly competitive specialty retail business. Founded in 1963 in Columbus, Ohio, we have evolved from an apparel-based specialty
retailer to an approximately $10 billion segment leader focused on women’s intimate and other apparel, beauty and personal care product categories that make customers feel sexy, sophisticated and forever young. We sell our merchandise through
specialty retail stores in the United States (“U.S.”) and Canada, which are primarily mall-based, and through websites, catalogue and other channels. We are committed to building a family of the world’s best fashion retail brands,
offering captivating customer experiences that drive long-term loyalty.

Victoria’s Secret

Victoria’s Secret, including Victoria’s Secret Pink, is the leading specialty retailer of women’s intimate and other apparel with
fashion-inspired collections, prestige fragrances and cosmetics, celebrated supermodels and world-famous runway shows. We sell our Victoria’s Secret products at more than 1,000 Victoria’s Secret stores in the U.S. and Canada, through the
Victoria’s Secret catalogue and online at www.VictoriasSecret.com. Additionally, Victoria’s Secret brand products are also available in duty-free and other international locations.

Bath & Body Works

Bath & Body Works is one of the leading
specialty retailers of personal care products including shower gels, lotions, antibacterial soaps, home fragrance and accessories. We sell our Bath & Body Works products at more than 1,600 Bath & Body Works stores in the U.S. and
Canada and online at www.BathandBodyWorks.com. Additionally, Bath & Body Works brand products are available through franchise locations in the Middle East.

Other Brands

La Senza is a specialty retailer of women’s intimate apparel in
Canada. We sell our La Senza products at more than 250 La Senza stores in Canada and online at www.LaSenza.com. Additionally, La Senza has 463 stores in 45 countries operating under licensing arrangements.

Henri Bendel sells upscale accessory products through our flagship and 10 other stores, as well as online at www.HenriBendel.com.

Fiscal Year

Our fiscal year ends on the
Saturday nearest to January 31. As used herein, “2011”, “2010”, “2009”, “2008” and “2007” refer to the 52 week periods ending January 28, 2012, January 29,
2011, January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008, respectively. “2006” refers to the 53 week period ended February 3, 2007.







Real Estate

The following table provides the retail businesses and the number of our company-owned retail stores in operation for each business as of January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010.



January 29,2011January 30,2010Victoria’s Secret Stores U.S.1,0281,040Bath & Body Works U.S.1,6061,627La Senza252258Henri Bendel1111Bath & Body Works Canada5931Victoria’s Secret Canada124Total2,9682,971

The following table provides the changes in the number of our company-owned retail stores operated for the past five fiscal
years:



Fiscal YearBeginningof YearOpenedClosedAcquired/DivestedBusinessesEnd of Year20102,97144(47)02,96820093,01459(102)02,97120082,926145(57)03,01420073,766129(100)(869)(a)2,92620063,59052(169)293(b)3,766



(a)Express and Limited Stores were divested in July 2007 and August 2007, respectively.

(b)Represents stores acquired in the La Senza acquisition on January 12, 2007.

In addition to our company-owned stores, our products are sold at hundreds of franchise and other locations throughout the world.

Our Strengths

We believe the following competitive strengths contribute to our leading
market position, differentiate us from our competitors, and will drive future growth:

Industry Leading Brands

We believe that our two flagship brands, Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body Works, are highly recognized and others, including
Victoria’s Secret Pink and La Senza, exhibit brand recognition which provides us with a competitive advantage. These brands are aspirational at accessible price points and have a loyal customer base. These brands allow us to target markets
across the economic spectrum, across demographics and across the world.



•At Victoria’s Secret, we market products to the late-teen and college-age woman with Victoria’s Secret Pink and then transition her into
glamorous and sexy product lines, such as Angels, Very Sexy and Body by Victoria. While bras and panties are the core of what we do, these brands also give our customers choices in clothing, accessories, fragrances, personal care, swimwear and
athletic attire.



•Bath & Body Works caters to our customers’ entire well-being, providing shower gels and lotions, aromatherapy, antibacterial soaps, home
fragrance and personal care accessories.



•In Canada, La Senza is a leader in women’s intimate apparel.







In-Store Experience and Store Operations

We view the customer’s in-store experience as an important vehicle for communicating the image of each brand. We utilize visual presentation of
merchandise, in-store marketing, music and our sales associates to reinforce the image represented by the brands.

Our in-store marketing is
designed to convey the principal elements and personality of each brand. The store design, furniture, fixtures and music are all carefully planned and coordinated to create a unique shopping experience. Every brand displays merchandise uniformly to
ensure a consistent store experience, regardless of location. Store managers receive detailed plans designating fixture and merchandise placement to ensure coordinated execution of the company-wide merchandising strategy.

Our sales associates and managers are a central element in creating the atmosphere of the stores by providing a high level of customer service.

Product Development, Sourcing and Logistics

We believe a large part of our success comes from frequent and innovative product launches, which include bra launches at Victoria’s Secret and La Senza and new fragrance launches at Bath &
Body Works. Our merchant, design and sourcing teams have a long history of bringing innovative products to our customers. Additionally, we believe that our sourcing function (Mast Global) has a long and deep presence in the key sourcing markets
including those in Asia, which helps us partner with the best manufacturers and get high quality products to our customers quickly.

Experienced and Committed Management Team

We were founded in 1963 and have been led since inception by Leslie H. Wexner. Our senior management team has a wealth of retail and business experience at Limited Brands and other companies such as
Nieman Marcus, Target, The Gap, Inc., The Home Depot, Carlson Companies and Yum Brands. We believe that we have one of the most experienced management teams in retail.

Additional Information

Merchandise Suppliers

During 2010, we purchased merchandise from over 1,000 suppliers located throughout the world. No supplier provided 10% or more of our merchandise
purchases.

Distribution and Merchandise Inventory

Most of the merchandise and related materials for our stores are shipped to our distribution centers in the Columbus, Ohio area. We use a variety of shipping terms that result in the transfer of title to
the merchandise at either the point of origin or point of destination.

Our policy is to maintain sufficient quantities of inventories on hand
in our retail stores and distribution centers to enable us to offer customers an appropriate selection of current merchandise. We emphasize rapid turnover and take markdowns as required to keep merchandise fresh and current.

Information Systems

Our
management information systems consist of a full range of retail, financial and merchandising systems. The systems include applications related to point-of-sale, e-commerce, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics,







inventory management and support systems including human resources and finance. We continue to invest in technology to upgrade core systems to continue to improve our efficiency and accuracy in
the production and delivery of merchandise to our stores.

Seasonal Business

Our operations are seasonal in nature and consist of two principal selling seasons: Spring (the first and second quarters) and Fall (the third and fourth
quarters). The fourth quarter, including the holiday season, accounted for approximately one-third of our net sales for 2010, 2009 and 2008 and is typically our most profitable quarter. Accordingly, cash requirements are highest in the third quarter
as our inventories build in advance of the holiday season.

Regulation

We and our products are subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities. We are subject to a variety of customs regulations and international trade arrangements.

Trademarks and Patents

Our trademarks and patents, which constitute our primary intellectual property, have been registered or are the subject of pending applications in the
United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law. We believe our products and services are identified by our intellectual property and, thus, our intellectual property is
of significant value. Accordingly, we intend to maintain our intellectual property and related registrations and vigorously protect our intellectual property assets against infringement.

Segment Information

We have two reportable segments: Victoria’s Secret and
Bath & Body Works. The Victoria’s Secret reportable segment consists of the Victoria’s Secret and La Senza operating segments which are aggregated in accordance with the authoritative guidance included in Accounting Standards
Codification Topic 280,Segment Reporting.

Other Information

For additional information about our business, including our net sales and profits for the last three years and selling square footage, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operation. For the financial results of our reportable segments, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Competition

The sale of women’s
intimate and other apparel, personal care and beauty products and accessories through retail stores is a highly competitive business with numerous competitors, including individual and chain specialty stores, department stores and discount
retailers. Brand image, marketing, design, price, service, assortment and quality are the principal competitive factors in retail store sales. Our direct response businesses compete with numerous national and regional direct response merchandisers.
Image presentation, fulfillment and the factors affecting retail store sales discussed above are the principal competitive factors in direct response sales.

Associate Relations

As of January 29, 2011, we employed approximately 96,500
associates, 79,000 of whom were part-time. In addition, temporary associates are hired during peak periods, such as the holiday season.







Executive Officers of Registrant

Set forth below is certain information regarding our executive officers.

Leslie H. Wexner, 73, has been our Chairman of the Board of Directors for more than thirty years and our Chief Executive Officer since our founding in
1963.

Martyn R. Redgrave, 58, has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since March 2005.

Stuart B. Burgdoerfer, 47, has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2007.

Sharen J. Turney, 54, has been our Chief Executive Officer and President of Victoria’s Secret since July 2006.

Diane L. Neal, 54, has been our Chief Executive Officer and President of Bath & Body Works since June 2007.

Jane L. Ramsey, 53, has been our Executive Vice President, Human Resources, since April 2006.

All of the above officers serve at the discretion of our Board of Directors and are members of our Executive Committee.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports and code of conduct are available, free of charge, on our website,www.LimitedBrands.com. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is
electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).



