ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

General

We operate in the highly competitive specialty retail business. Founded in 1963 in Columbus, Ohio, we have evolved from an apparel-based specialty retailer to a segment leader focused on women’s intimate and other apparel, personal care and beauty categories that make customers feel sexy, sophisticated and forever young. We sell our merchandise through specialty retail stores in the United States (“U.S.”) and Canada, which are primarily mall-based, and through websites, catalogue and international franchise, license and wholesale partners. We are committed to building a family of the world’s best fashion retail brands, offering captivating customer experiences that drive long-term loyalty.

Victoria’s Secret

Victoria’s Secret, including Victoria’s Secret Pink, is the leading specialty retailer of women’s intimate and other apparel with fashion-inspired collections, prestige fragrances and cosmetics, celebrated supermodels and world-famous runway shows. We sell our Victoria’s Secret products at more than1,000Victoria’s Secret stores in the U.S. and Canada, through the Victoria’s Secret catalogue and online atwww.VictoriasSecret.com.  Additionally, Victoria’s Secret brand products are also available in Victoria's Secret Beauty and Accessories stores operated by partners under a franchise or wholesale model throughout the world.

Bath & Body Works

Bath & Body Works is one of the leading specialty retailers of home fragrance and personal care products including shower gels, lotions and antibacterial soaps. We sell our Bath & Body Works products at more than1,600Bath & Body Works stores in the U.S. and Canada and online atwww.BathandBodyWorks.com. Additionally, Bath & Body Works brand products are available through franchise locations in the Middle East.

Other Brands

La Senza is a specialty retailer of women’s intimate apparel. We sell our La Senza products at more than200La Senza stores in Canada and online atwww.LaSenza.com. Additionally, La Senza has approximately300stores in30countries operating under franchise and licensing arrangements.

Henri Bendel sells upscale accessory products through our New York flagship and 18 other stores, as well as online atwww.HenriBendel.com.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

La Senza

In January 2007, we completed our acquisition of La Senza. The results of La Senza are included in the Other segment.

Express

In July 2007, we completed the divestiture of75%of our ownership interest in Express to affiliates of Golden Gate Capital.  From May 2010 through July 2011, we sold10.4 millionshares of Express common stock and contributed our remaining7.2 millionshares of common stock to The Limited Brands Foundation.

Limited Stores

In August 2007, we completed the divestiture of75%of our ownership interest in Limited Stores to affiliates of Sun Capital.  In June 2010, we completed the divestiture of our remaining25%ownership interest in Limited Stores.



Third-party Apparel Sourcing Business

On October 31, 2011, we divested51%of our ownership interest in our third-party apparel sourcing business to affiliates of Sycamore Partners.  We continue to retain a 49% interest which we account for as an equity method investee.









Fiscal Year

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31. As used herein, “2011”, “2010”, “2009”, “2008” and “2007” refer to the 52 week periods endingJanuary 28, 2012,January 29, 2011,January 30, 2010,January 31, 2009andFebruary 2, 2008, respectively. “2012” refers to the 53 week period ended February 2, 2013.



Real Estate



Company-owned Retail Stores

Our company-owned retail stores are located in shopping malls, lifestyle centers and street locations in the U.S. and Canada.  As a result of our strong brand and established retail presence, we have been able to acquire high-traffic locations in most retail centers in which we operate.  Substantially all of our stores were profitable in 2011.

The following table provides the retail businesses and the number of our company-owned retail stores in operation for each business as ofJanuary 28, 2012andJanuary 29, 2011.

January 28, 2012January 29, 2011Victoria’s Secret Stores U.S.1,0171,028Bath & Body Works U.S.1,5871,606La Senza Canada (a)230252Bath & Body Works Canada6959Victoria’s Secret Canada1912Henri Bendel1911Total2,9412,968

________________

(a)During the fourth quarter of 2011, we initiated a restructuring program designed to resize a portion of La Senza's store fleet.  Under this program, we plan to close 38 underperforming stores.  Of these stores, 12 were closed as of January 28, 2012.  The remainder were closed during the first quarter of 2012.  For additional information, see Note5to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data.



The following table provides the changes in the number of our company-owned retail stores operated for the past five fiscal years:

Fiscal YearBeginningof YearOpenedClosedAcquired/DivestedBusinessesEnd of Year20112,96840(67)—2,94120102,97144(47)—2,96820093,01459(102)—2,97120082,926145(57)—3,01420073,766129(100)(869)(a)2,926

________________

(a)Express and Limited Stores were divested in July 2007 and August 2007, respectively.

Franchise, License and Wholesale Agreements

In addition to our company-owned stores, our products are sold at hundreds of franchise and other locations throughout the world.  We have agreements with unaffiliated partners to operate Victoria's Secret, Bath & Body Works and La Senza stores throughout the world.  Under these agreements, third parties operate stores that sell our products under our brand names. We continue to increase the number of countries under these types of arrangements as part of our efforts to expand internationally.

Our Strengths

We believe the following competitive strengths contribute to our leading market position, differentiate us from our competitors, and will drive future growth:









Industry Leading Brands

We believe that our two flagship brands, Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body Works, are highly recognized and others, including Victoria’s Secret Pink and La Senza, exhibit brand recognition which provides us with a competitive advantage. These brands are aspirational at accessible price points and have a loyal customer base. These brands allow us to target markets across the economic spectrum, across demographics and across the world.

•At Victoria’s Secret, we market products to the college-age woman with Victoria’s Secret Pink and then transition her into glamorous and sexy product lines, such as Angels, Very Sexy and Body by Victoria. While bras and panties are the core of what we do, these brands also give our customers choices in clothing, accessories, fragrances, personal care, swimwear and athletic attire.

•Bath & Body Works caters to our customers’ entire well-being, providing shower gels and lotions, aromatherapy, antibacterial soaps, home fragrance and personal care accessories.

•In Canada, La Senza is a leader in young women’s intimate apparel.  La Senza offerings include bras, panties, sleepwear, loungewear and accessories.

In-Store Experience and Store Operations

We view the customers' in-store experience as an important vehicle for communicating the image of each brand. We utilize visual presentation of merchandise, in-store marketing, music and our sales associates to reinforce the image represented by the brands.

Our in-store marketing is designed to convey the principal elements and personality of each brand. The store design, furniture, fixtures and music are all carefully planned and coordinated to create a unique shopping experience. Every brand displays merchandise uniformly to ensure a consistent store experience, regardless of location. Store managers receive detailed plans designating fixture and merchandise placement to ensure coordinated execution of the company-wide merchandising strategy.

Our sales associates and managers are a central element in creating the atmosphere of the stores by providing a high level of customer service.

Product Development, Sourcing and Logistics

We believe a large part of our success comes from frequent and innovative product launches, which include bra launches at Victoria’s Secret and La Senza and new fragrance launches at Bath & Body Works. Our merchant, design and sourcing teams have a long history of bringing innovative products to our customers. Additionally, we believe that our sourcing function (Mast Global) has a long and deep presence in the key sourcing markets including those in the United States and Asia, which helps us partner with the best manufacturers and get high quality products quickly.

Experienced and Committed Management Team

We were founded in 1963 and have been led since inception by Leslie H. Wexner. Our senior management team has a wealth of retail and business experience at Limited Brands and other companies such as Neiman Marcus, Target, The Gap, Inc., The Home Depot, Carlson Companies, Land's End, Levi Strauss and Yum Brands. We believe that we have one of the most experienced management teams in retail.

Additional Information

Merchandise Suppliers

During 2011, we purchased merchandise from approximately1,000suppliers located throughout the world. No supplier provided10%or more of our merchandise purchases.

Distribution and Merchandise Inventory

Most of the merchandise and related materials for our stores are shipped to our distribution centers in the Columbus, Ohio area. We use a variety of shipping terms that result in the transfer of title to the merchandise at either the point of origin or point of destination.

Our policy is to maintain sufficient quantities of inventories on hand in our retail stores and distribution centers to enable us to offer customers an appropriate selection of current merchandise. We emphasize rapid turnover and take markdowns as required to keep merchandise fresh and current.









Information Systems

Our management information systems consist of a full range of retail, financial and merchandising systems. The systems include applications related to point-of-sale, e-commerce, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management and support systems including human resources and finance. We continue to invest in technology to upgrade core systems to continue to improve our efficiency and accuracy in the production and delivery of merchandise to our stores.

Seasonal Business

Our operations are seasonal in nature and consist of two principal selling seasons: Spring (the first and second quarters) and Fall (the third and fourth quarters). The fourth quarter, including the holiday season, accounted for approximately one-third of our net sales for2011,2010and2009and is typically our most profitable quarter. Accordingly, cash requirements are highest in the third quarter as our inventories build in advance of the holiday season.

Working Capital

We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents and cash flows generated from operations.  In addition, our revolving credit facility is available for additional working capital needs and investment opportunities.

Regulation

We and our products are subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities. We are subject to a variety of customs regulations and international trade arrangements.

Trademarks and Patents

Our trademarks and patents, which constitute our primary intellectual property, have been registered or are the subject of pending applications in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law. We believe our products are identified by our intellectual property and, thus, our intellectual property is of significant value.  Accordingly, we intend to maintain our intellectual property and related registrations and vigorously protect our intellectual property assets against infringement.

Segment Information

We have two reportable segments: Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body Works.  Prior to the fourth quarter of 2011, the Victoria’s Secret reportable segment consisted of the Victoria’s Secret and La Senza operating segments which were aggregated in accordance with the authoritative guidance included in Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280,Segment Reporting.  In the fourth quarter of 2011, we ceased aggregating La Senza with Victoria's Secret.  While this reporting change did not impact our consolidated results, segment data for previous years has been recast to be consistent with the current year presentation throughout the Form 10-K.  For additional information, see Note21to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Other Information

For additional information about our business, including our net sales and profits for the last three years and selling square footage, see Item7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. For the financial results of our reportable segments, see Note21to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Competition

The sale of women’s intimate and other apparel, personal care and beauty products and accessories through retail stores is a highly competitive business with numerous competitors, including individual and chain specialty stores, department stores and discount retailers. Brand image, marketing, design, price, service, assortment and quality are the principal competitive factors in retail store sales. Our direct response businesses compete with numerous national and regional direct response merchandisers. Image presentation, fulfillment and the factors affecting retail store sales discussed above are the principal competitive factors in direct response sales.

Associate Relations

As ofJanuary 28, 2012, we employed approximately97,000associates,79,000of whom were part-time. In addition, temporary associates are hired during peak periods, such as the holiday season.









Executive Officers of Registrant

Set forth below is certain information regarding our executive officers.

Leslie H. Wexner,74, has been our Chairman of the Board of Directors for more than thirty years and our Chief Executive Officer since our founding in 1963.

Martyn R. Redgrave,59, has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since March 2005.

Stuart B. Burgdoerfer,48, has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2007.

Sharen J. Turney,55, has been our Chief Executive Officer and President of Victoria’s Secret since July 2006.

Nicholas P. M. Coe,49, has been our Chief Executive Officer and President of Bath & Body Works since August 2011.

Charles C. McGuigan, 55, has been our Chief Executive Officer and President of Mast Global since February 2011.

Jane L. Ramsey,54, has been our Executive Vice President, Human Resources, since April 2006.

All of the above officers serve at the discretion of our Board of Directors and are members of our Executive Committee.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  Copies of these reports, proxy statements and other information can be read and copied at:

SEC Public Reference Room

100 F Street NE

Washington, D.C. 20549

Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.  Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our websitewww.LimitedBrands.com.

Copies of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to:

Limited Brands, Inc.

Investor Relations Department

Three Limited Parkway, P.O. Box 16000

Columbus, Ohio 43216





