Item 1: Business

Motorola Mobility Separation

On July 1, 2010, an initial registration statement on Form 10 was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) in connection with the Company’s separation into two independent, publicly traded companies. Amendments to the initial registration statement were filed on August 31, 2010, October 8,
2010, November 12, 2010 and November 30, 2010. On December 1, 2010, the SEC granted effectiveness to the Form 10.

On January 4, 2011 (the “Distribution Date”), the separation of Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. (“Motorola Mobility”) from Motorola Solutions (the
“Separation”) was completed. Motorola Mobility is now an independent public company trading under the symbol “MMI” on the New York Stock Exchange. On January 4, 2011, the Company’s stockholders of record as of the
close of business on December 21, 2010 (the “Record Date”) received one (1) share of Motorola Mobility common stock for each eight (8) shares of Motorola, Inc. common stock held as of the Record Date (the
“Distribution”). The Separation was completed pursuant to an Amended and Restated Master Separation and Distribution Agreement, effective as of July 31, 2010, among Motorola, Inc., Motorola Mobility and Motorola
Mobility, Inc. All consolidated per share information presented does not give effect to the Distribution.

After the
Distribution Date, the Company does not beneficially own any shares of Motorola Mobility common stock and will not consolidate Motorola Mobility financial results for the purpose of its own financial reporting. The financial information presented in
this Form 10-K contains the consolidated position of the Company as of December 31, 2010, which includes the results of Motorola Mobility. Beginning in the first quarter of 2011, the historical financial results of Motorola Mobility will be
reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations.

Reverse Stock Split and Name Change

On November 30, 2010, Motorola Solutions announced the timing and details regarding the Separation and the approval
of a reverse stock split at a ratio of 1-for-7. Immediately following the Distribution of Motorola Mobility common stock, the Company completed a 1-for-7 reverse stock split (“the Reverse Stock Split”) and changed its name to Motorola
Solutions, Inc. All consolidated per share information presented gives effect to the Reverse Stock Split.

Networks Transaction

On July 19, 2010, the Company announced an agreement to sell certain assets and liabilities of its Networks business
to Nokia Siemens Networks B.V. (“NSN”) for $1.2 billion in cash (the “Transaction”). The Transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2011, subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions, including
receipt of regulatory approvals. Based on the terms and conditions of the sale agreement, certain assets including $150 million of accounts receivable, the Company’s iDEN infrastructure business and substantially all the patents related to
the Company’s Networks business, are excluded from the Transaction.







Beginning in the third quarter of 2010, the results of operations of the portions of the
Networks business included in the Transaction are reported as discontinued operations. Certain Corporate and general costs which have historically been allocated to the Networks business will remain with the Company after the sale of the Networks
business.

The operating results of the Company’s iDEN infrastructure business and certain licensing activity generally
related to the Networks business are also now being reported as part of the Enterprise Mobility Solutions segment. The Corporate and general costs which have historically been allocated to the Networks business are allocated to the Enterprise
Mobility Solutions segment. Additionally, the results of operations of previously disposed businesses, which were deemed to be immaterial at the time of their disposition, have been reclassified from the Enterprise Mobility Solutions segment to
discontinued operations. These businesses include: (i) an Israel-based wireless network operator, (ii) the biometrics business, and (iii) Good Technology. The assets and liabilities of the Networks business which are being sold to
NSN, as well as the assets and liabilities of the previously disposed businesses recorded by the Company prior to the closing of the underlying transactions, are reported as assets and liabilities held for sale. All previously reported financial
information has been revised to conform to the current presentation.

General

We provide technologies, products, systems and services that make a broad range of mobile experiences possible. Our portfolio included
wireless handsets, wireless accessories, digital entertainment devices, set-top boxes and video distribution systems, analog and digital two-way radios, wireless and wireline broadband network products, and end-to-end enterprise mobility products.

Through December 31, 2010, the Company reported financial results for three operating business segments, which comprised of
two main business units. Following the Separation of Motorola Mobility on January 4, 2011, only the Enterprise Mobility Solutions segment remains part of the Company.

Motorola Solutions



•TheEnterprise Mobility Solutionsbusiness designs, manufactures, sells, installs and services analog and digital two-way radios, wireless LAN
and security products, voice and data communications products and systems primarily for private networks, wireless broadband systems and end-to-end enterprise mobility solutions.

Motorola Mobility



•TheMobile Devicesbusiness designs, manufactures, sells and services wireless handsets, including smartphones, with integrated software and
accessory products, and licenses intellectual property.



•TheHomebusiness designs, manufactures, sells, installs and services set-top boxes for digital video, Internet Protocol (“IP”) video,
satellite and terrestrial broadcast networks, end-to-end digital video and Internet protocol television (“IPTV”) distribution systems, broadband access network infrastructure platforms, and associated data and voice customer premises
equipment and associated software solutions to cable television (“TV”) and telecommunication service providers.

Motorola Solutions is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation organized in 1928. The Company’s principal executive offices are
located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196.

Motorola Solutions

Enterprise Mobility Solutions Segment

The Enterprise Mobility Solutions segment (“Enterprise Mobility Solutions” or the “segment”) designs, manufactures, sells, installs and services analog and digital two-way radios,
wireless LAN and security products, voice and data communications products and systems primarily for private networks, wireless broadband systems and end-to-end enterprise mobility solutions to a wide range of customers, including government and
public safety agencies (which, together with all sales to distributors of two-way communication products, are referred to as the “government and public safety market”), as well as retail, energy and utilities, transportation,
manufacturing, healthcare and other commercial customers (which, collectively, are referred to as the “commercial enterprise market”). In 2010, the segment’s net sales represented 41% of the Company’s consolidated net sales, but
represent 100% of the Company’s consolidated net sales following the Separation of Motorola Mobility.







Principal Products and Services

We are a leading provider of business and mission-critical communication products and services for enterprise and government customers. We
help our customers be their best in the moments that matter by connecting them to seamless communication networks, applications and services by providing them with real-time information and by providing them with intuitive, rugged handheld devices.
We offer an extensive portfolio of advanced networks, services, applications and devices that meet evolving public safety, security and professional and commercial market needs, including products based on TETRA (terrestrial trunked radio), APCO 25
(Association for Public Safety Communications Officials) and DMR (digital mobile radio) standards, as well as integrated digital enhanced network (“iDEN”) technology. The segment also provides products and systems for the advanced exchange
of information at the point of business activity. Our products include two-way radio systems and devices, mobile computing products, advanced data capture products including barcode scanners and imagers, radio frequency identification
(“RFID”) infrastructure, software management, security tools and wireless infrastructure.

Our products and services
are sold stand-alone or as an integrated solution through the Company’s direct sales force and through PartnerEmpower, our independent and authorized distributors, dealers and value-added resellers, independent software vendors, original
equipment manufacturers and service operators. Distributors and value-added resellers may provide a service or add components in order to resell our product to end users. Our segment provides systems engineering, installation and other technical and
systems management services to meet our customers’ particular needs. The customer may choose to install and maintain the equipment with its own employees, or may obtain installation, service and parts from a network of the segment’s
authorized service centers or from other non-Motorola Solutions service centers.

Our Industry

We compete in the mobile segment of the communications industry, providing wireless products and services to government, public safety and
enterprise customers.

For customers within our government and public safety market, interoperability and natural disaster
preparedness continue to be important issues worldwide. Our extensive portfolio of products includes integration services, equipment and support packages for the major standards-based private network technologies, APCO 25, TETRA and DMR, as
well as broadband technologies (Long-Term Evolution (“LTE”), WiMAX and WiFi). Mission-critical communications and homeland security remain high priorities for these customers. We expect customer spending within the government and public
safety markets to drive sales growth in 2011.

In 2010, we saw a significant increase in customer spending within our
commercial enterprise markets, driven primarily by retail customers. We believe that long-term growth opportunities exist within our commercial enterprise market as the global workforce continues to become more mobile and the industries and markets
that purchase our products continue to expand. Our product and service portfolios within the commercial enterprise market include: mobile computing products, enterprise wireless infrastructure, bar code scanning, RFID products, and mobile network
management platforms. Organizations looking to increase productivity and derive benefits from mobilizing their applications and workforces are driving adoption in these markets. We expect customer spending within the commercial enterprise markets to
drive sales growth in 2011.

Our Strategy

Our Enterprise Mobility Solutions’ strategy is to maintain our position as a market leader in the markets we serve through the continued delivery of mobile products, services and systems that meet
our customers’ demand for real-time information everywhere.

Our strategy for our government and public safety market is
to enable customers to focus on their missions, not the technology. This is accomplished by being a valued partner to our customers and providing innovative solutions that help them be their best in the moments that matter. This includes
mission-critical systems, seamless connectivity through highly reliable voice and data networks, and a suite of advanced applications that provide real-time information to end users. Key objectives in maintaining our leadership position include:
(i) developing next-generation public safety equipment including radios, video surveillance and LTE for public safety; (ii) continuing investment in our analog radio portfolio while leading the ongoing migration to digital products;
(iii) leveraging our wireless broadband portfolio to drive growth and enter new markets; (iv) managing the potential public/private convergence of 700MHz public safety systems in the U.S. and digital dividend spectrum worldwide; and







(v) continuing to be a market leader in APCO 25 and TETRA standards-based voice and data networking systems around the world. We continue to actively manage our portfolio, investing to
expand into attractive, complementary markets, and divesting non-strategic businesses.

Our strategy for customers in our
commercial enterprise market is to deliver the next generation of enterprise mobility to empower the mobile worker, enable real-time asset visibility and engage the smart consumer. We have defined several key areas of innovation, including advanced
devices, enhanced information capture, adaptive networking, integrated communications, advanced application services, the connected customer, security and management. We expect to expand the range of devices to more workers so they are connected
with a device that is appropriate for their role, leading to enhanced productivity. By providing real-time asset visibility beyond just merchandise, enterprises will be able to further monitor assets and activity and make decisions that increase
efficiency and lead to increased sales. To engage and connect with the smarter customer, next generation enterprise mobility will need to continue to deliver products, systems and services that improve relationships and enhance customer experiences.

Customers

Our sales model emphasizes both direct-sales by our in-house sales force and sales through PartnerEmpower, our channel of independent and
authorized distributors, dealers and value-added resellers, independent software vendors, original equipment manufacturers and service operators. We believe this dual sales approach allows us to meet customer needs effectively, build strong, lasting
relationships and broaden our penetration across various markets. Resellers and distributors each have their own sales organizations that complement and extend our sales organization. With deep expertise about specific customers’ operations,
resellers are very effective in promoting sales of the Company’s products. Our independent software vendor and value-added resale channels offer customized applications that meet specific needs in each market we serve.

Our largest customer is the U.S. Government (through its various branches and agencies, including the armed services), which represented
approximately 8% of the segment’s net sales in 2010. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue and earnings over several quarters, because some of our contracts with the U.S. Government are
long-term. All contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the U.S. Government. Net sales to customers in North America represented 58% of the segment’s net sales in 2010.

Government contractors, including the Company, are routinely subjected to numerous audits and investigations, which may be either civil or
criminal in nature. The consequences of these audits and investigations may include administrative action to suspend business dealings with the contractor and to exclude it from receiving new business. In addition, the Company, like other
contractors, reviews aspects of its government contracting operations, and, where appropriate, takes corrective actions and makes voluntary disclosures to the U.S. Government. These audits and investigations could adversely affect the Company’s
ability to obtain new business from the U.S. Government.

The Company believes that there remains a large number of businesses
and governmental customers globally who have yet to experience the benefits of converged wireless communications, mobility and the Internet. As the worldwide economies, financial markets and business conditions improve, the Company expects to have
new opportunities to extend our brand, to market our products and services and to pursue profitable growth.

Competition

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Continued evolution in our industry and technological migration is opening up the
market to increased competition. Key competitive factors include technology offered; price; availability of vendor financing; product and system performance; product features, quality, availability and warranty; the quality and availability of
service; company reputation; relationship with key customers; and time-to-market. We believe we are uniquely positioned in the industry due to our strong customer relationships, our technological leadership and capabilities and our comprehensive
range of offerings.

We experience widespread competition from a growing number of new and existing competitors, including:
large system integrators, manufacturers of mobile computing devices and manufacturers of products in bar code reading equipment and wireless networks. The segment provides communications and information systems compliant with APCO 25, TETRA and
DMR industry digital standards. Major competitors include: Cisco, EADS, EF Johnson, Harris, Honeywell, Intermec and Kenwood.







Large system integrators are seeking to move further into the government markets. The
Company and competitors in this segment may also serve as subcontractors to large system integrators and are selected based on a number of competitive factors and customer requirements. Where favorable to the Company, we may partner with large
system integrators to make available our portfolio of advanced mission-critical services, applications and devices.

Several
other competitive factors may have an impact on our segment, including: the consolidation among telecommunications equipment providers; evolving developments in the 700 MHz band; increasing encroachment by broadband and IP solution providers; and
new low-tier entrants. Numerous companies, including present manufacturers of scanners, lasers, optical instruments, microprocessors, wireless networks, notebook computers, handheld devices and telephonic and other communication devices may have the
technical potential to compete with our business. As demand for fully-integrated voice, data, and broadband systems continue, the segment may face additional competition from public telecommunications carriers.

Payment Terms

Payment
terms vary worldwide, depending on the arrangement. Generally, contract payment terms range from 30 to 45 days from the invoice date within North America and are typically limited to 90 days in regions outside of North America. A portion
of the contracts within our government and public safety customers include implementation milestones, such as delivery, installation and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on
completion of the milestone.

We generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required for competitive reasons, we may
provide long-term financing in connection with equipment purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the purchase price.

Regulatory
Matters

The use of wireless voice, data and video communications systems requires radio spectrum, which is regulated by
governmental agencies throughout the world. In the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) regulate spectrum use by non-federal entities and
federal entities, respectively. Similarly, countries around the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and implement the rules for use of the radio spectrum, pursuant to their respective national laws and international coordination
under the International Telecommunications Union (“ITU”). Consequently, the results of the segment could be positively or negatively affected by the rules and regulations adopted by the FCC, NTIA or regulatory agencies in other countries
from time to time. The availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities and the loss of available radio spectrum may result in the loss of business opportunities. Regulatory changes in current spectrum bands may also
provide opportunities or may require modifications to some of our products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed.

The segment manufactures and markets products in spectrum bands already made available by regulatory bodies. These include voice and data
infrastructure, mobile radios and portable or handheld units. Our products operate both on licensed and unlicensed spectrum. In addition, new spectrum bands and modified regulations provide possible opportunities for new business.

As television transmission and reception technology transitions from analog to more efficient digital modes, various countries around the
world are examining, and in some cases already pursuing, the redevelopment of portions of the television spectrum. In the U.S., pursuant to federal legislation, analog television stations ceased operation in the broadcast television spectrum on
June 12, 2009. As a result of this transition, 108 MHz of spectrum historically used for broadcast television, now known as the 700MHz band, is being redeveloped and deployed for new uses (the so-called “digital dividend” spectrum),
including broadband and narrowband wireless communications. This spectrum can provide new opportunities for the Company and for our competitors. Under rules adopted by the FCC, 24 MHz of the 700 MHz band already allocated by the FCC will support new
public safety narrowband and broadband communications systems. Prior to the end of the transition from analog to digital television on June 12, 2009, over 40 public safety customers were already implementing narrowband 700 MHz systems in areas
where television incumbency was not an issue. Now that the spectrum is open nationwide, additional agencies have also been deploying narrowband systems and others are in the planning stages.

The FCC is also making provisions for a 700 MHz band nationwide public safety broadband network that may be built over the next
10-15 years. In May 2010, the FCC issued 21 conditional waiver grants to public safety







agencies around the country to deploy 700 MHz broadband systems. Over 25 additional waiver petitions are pending FCC decisions as of December 2010. Several of the broadband waiver grantees also
benefit from federal Broadband Technology Opportunity Policy (“BTOP”) Grant Funds issued by the NTIA during 2010. In 2010, the segment was awarded a $50.6 million BTOP grant to deploy a broadband system in the greater San Francisco Bay
area. The segment is also working with a number of customers in other areas who received FCC conditional waivers to use the 700 MHz broadband spectrum. Public safety organizations and the FCC have endorsed the use of Long Term Evolution (LTE)
technology, a technology in which the Company is investing, for this broadband network. Legislation was also introduced in Congress in 2010 to allocate additional broadband spectrum to public safety in the 700 MHz band. The legislation must be
introduced in the new 2011 Congress. If successful, the legislation would double the broadband MHz spectrum dedicated for public safety.

In addition to these specific actions during 2010 regarding public safety systems, in March 2010, the FCC released its overall National Broadband Plan. The plan’s focus is to promote and enable the
build-out and utilization of high-speed broadband infrastructure to benefit a number of key areas, including educational institutions, healthcare facilities, the energy segment, consumers and others. The Department of Energy also issued a request
for information regarding Smart Grid communications requirements and additional actions regarding the Smart Grid are expected in the coming year. In April 2010, Canada released rules for public safety use of the 700MHz narrowband spectrum. In
November 2010, Canada also released a consultation requesting input on making broadband spectrum available for public safety use in the 700 MHz band. Decisions regarding broadband use in Canada are expected to be released during 2011. Canada has
established August 31, 2011 as the date for clearing television operations from 700 MHz spectrum, which should also help open opportunities for mobile systems to deploy in the band. Internationally, the ITU World Radio Conference held in Geneva
in November 2007 identified spectrum that could be made available as part of a “digital dividend” as television transitions from analog to digital technology globally. Countries around the world are studying the potential size, timing and
use of this potentially available spectrum.

Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state,
local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup
of contaminated sites. Certain of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products.

Backlog

The segment’s backlog position as of the end of the last two
fiscal years was approximately as follows:



December 31, 2010$2.6 billionDecember 31, 2009$2.6 billion

The 2010 order backlog is up slightly and believed to be generally firm. Approximately 77% of that amount is expected to be recognized as revenue during 2011. The forward-looking estimate of the firmness
of such orders is subject to future events that may cause the amount recognized to change.

Intellectual Property Matters

Patent protection is extremely important to the segment’s operations. The segment has an extensive U.S. and international portfolio
of patents relating to its products, systems, technologies and manufacturing processes, including recent research developments in scanning, information collection, mission critical two-way radio communication, network communications and network
management. We have also filed additional patent applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as in foreign patent offices.

The segment licenses some of its patents to third parties, but this revenue is not significant. The segment is also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing fees vary from
year to year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to licenses.

We actively
participate in the development of open standards for interoperable, mission-critical digital two-way radio systems. We have published our technology and licensed patents to signatories of the industry’s two primary memorandums of understanding
defined by the Telecommunications Industry Association (“TIA”), Project 25, European Telecommunications Standards Institute (“ETSI”), and TETRA.







A large portion of the patent portfolio which we owned prior to the Separation was allocated
to Motorola Mobility. Each entity will remain licensed to use the entire portfolio in its own products. However, we will not have the right to enforce against others the patents that are owned by Motorola Mobility, and Motorola Mobility will not
have the right to enforce against others the patents that are owned by us. Notwithstanding the transfer of patents to Motorola Mobility, the expiration of certain patents and the resulting potential for increased competition for some of our products
in the future, we believe that our remaining patent portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas. Furthermore, we believe we are not dependent upon a single patent or a few patents. Our success depends
more upon our proprietary know-how, innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities. In addition, because of changing technology, our present intention is not to rely primarily on patents or other intellectual property rights to
protect or establish our market position. However, the segment continues to litigate against competitors to enforce its intellectual property rights in certain technologies and has favorably settled one such lawsuit in 2010. For additional
information relating to patents, trademarks and research and development activities with respect to this segment, see the discussion under “Other Information.”

Inventory, Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality

The
segment’s practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory to meet customers’ delivery requirements in a manner consistent with industry standards. The segment provides custom products which require the stocking of inventories and
large varieties of piece parts and replacement parts in order to meet delivery and warranty requirements. To the extent suppliers’ product life cycles are shorter than the segment’s, stocking of lifetime buy inventories is required to meet
long-term warranty and contractual requirements. In addition, replacement parts are stocked for delivery on customer demand within a short delivery cycle. At the end of 2010, the segment had a higher inventory balance than at the end of 2009, as the
Company increased inventory to address worldwide supply shortages and increased lead times on key components.

Availability of
materials and components required by the segment is relatively dependable; however, fluctuations in supply and market demand could cause selective shortages and affect results. We currently procure certain materials and components from single-source
vendors. A material disruption from a single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. If certain single-source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or
interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact the segment’s financial results.

Natural gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy for our manufacturing operations. Each of these
resources is currently in adequate supply for the segment’s operations. In addition, the cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices, which increased during 2010 and impacted our manufacturing and shipping
costs. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to the segment’s manufacturing facilities. However, while not likely, difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned resources or a significant cost increase could affect the
segment’s results.

Generally, the segment’s contracts do not include a right of return, other than for standard
warranty provisions; however, certain distributor partners within the commercial enterprise markets do maintain limited stock rotation rights. For new product introductions, we may enter into milestone contracts providing that the product could be
returned if we do not achieve the milestones. Due to buying patterns in the markets we serve, sales tend to be somewhat higher in the fourth quarter.

Our Facilities/Manufacturing

The segment’s primary offices are
located in Schaumburg, Illinois and Holtsville, New York. Our other major facilities are located in: Penang, Malaysia; Reynosa, Mexico; Krakow, Poland; and Berlin, Germany. A portion of the segment’s manufacturing is done by a small number of
non-affiliated electronics manufacturing suppliers and distribution and logistics services providers, most of which are outside the United States. The segment relies on these third-party providers in order to enhance its ability to lower costs and
deliver products that meet consumer demands.







Motorola Mobility

Mobile Devices Segment

The Mobile Devices
segment, which was separated with Motorola Mobility on January 4, 2011, is a provider of mobile devices and related products and services designed to deliver mobile communications, such as voice, messaging, push-to-talk and video, and to deliver
mobile Internet access and content, including multimedia, social networking, navigation and other mobile applications. In 2010, the segment’s net sales represented 40% of the Company’s consolidated net sales.

Products

This segment
designs, manufactures and sells a broad range of mobile devices encompassing multiple network technologies, form factors (which are the physical look and mechanical function of a device), capabilities, price points and geographies. The
segment’s product portfolio of mobile devices includes smartphones (which are wireless phones with advanced Internet browsing and application capabilities), feature-phones (which are wireless phones with limited internet browsing and
application capabilities), voice-centric phones (which are primarily used for calls and text messaging), and media tablet devices (also known as slates) (“media tablets”) that offer enhanced multimedia and functionality to the end user.
This segment also provides complementary mobile software, services, and accessories and licenses its portfolio of intellectual property. The segment markets its products globally to mobile network operators and carriers (collectively “wireless
carriers”) and consumers through direct sales, retailers, and distributors.

Industry

In 2010, total industry shipments of wireless handsets increased from an economically weakened level in 2009. The smartphone segment grew
on an unit basis more than 60% from 2009 to 2010. Mobile device manufacturers compete in a rapidly evolving marketplace. To be successful, manufacturers must consistently innovate and deliver a differentiated product portfolio. This requires
extensive intellectual property assets and expertise in the integration of hardware, software and, increasingly, services. Manufacturers must also have strong wireless carrier relationships, global distribution capabilities, a strong brand and the
ability to effectively build or work within a growing ecosystem of applications.

Competition

Competitors include traditional mobile device manufacturers as well as new competitors who have entered the market in the last several
years. As market demand continues to shift toward smartphones and media tablets, additional competitors may enter the mobile devices market.

The segment experiences intense competition from numerous global competitors such as Nokia, Samsung, LG, Sony-Ericsson, Apple, RIM and HTC. In 2010, these seven manufacturers together held an aggregate
market share of approximately 80% of the total mobile devices market. Smartphone manufacturers have benefited from the growing smartphone demand. New competitors are also entering from the traditional computing market. In addition, second-tier
vendors are increasing their presence in Asia, as well as expanding into other regions, providing another layer of competition.

In 2010, the segment’s overall market share decreased; however, its share in smartphones increased compared to 2009.

General competitive factors in the market for the segment’s products include: overall quality of user experience; design;
time-to-market; brand awareness; technology offered; price; product innovation, features, performance and quality; delivery and warranty; the quality and availability of service; and relationships with key customers.

Home Segment

The Home segment, which was separated with Motorola Mobility on January 4, 2011, is a provider of products and services to cable operators and wireline telecommunications (“telco”) service
providers (collectively, “network operators”) that enable the delivery of video, voice and data services to consumers. The segment’s product portfolio primarily includes interactive set-top boxes, end-to-end digital video and Internet
Protocol Television







(“IPTV”) distribution systems, broadband access infrastructure platforms, and associated data and voice customer premises equipment (“CPE”). In 2010, the segment’s net
sales represented 19% of the Company’s consolidated net sales.

Products

The segment’s products and services are used by content providers and network operators throughout the delivery network, and
consumers in the home.



•The segment provides a broad array of set-top boxes for network operators that support standard definition TV (“SDTV”) and high definition
television (“HDTV”) delivery, including set-top boxes with integrated digital video recorder (“DVR”) capability. The segment’s set-top boxes support a variety of delivery architectures including conventional cable TV, IPTV
and hybrid IP/conventional environments. The segment also supplies modems and gateways for data over cable service interface specification (“DOCSIS”) 3.0 and Optical Terminal Nodes (“OTNs”) for digital subscriber line
(“DSL”) networks and passive optical networks (“PON”).



•The segment’s cable modem termination systems (“CMTS”) for DOCSIS 3.0 networks and its optical headend and network equipment enable
network operators to deliver video, data and voice services.



•The segment provides integrated receiver decoders (“IRDs”), multiplexers and transcoders that receive content from the content providers for
redistribution over the operators’ networks. The segment also provides encoders for local programming, video-on-demand (“VOD”) servers and multiplexers for placement of advertising streams. The segment’s portfolio includes
software that enables the delivery and management of multi-screen experiences across a wide range of cable, telco and wireless platforms. The segment’s products include security solutions used between the headend and the home and device
management technology for set-top boxes and modems.



•The segment’s Moving Picture Experts Group (“MPEG”)-compliant SDTV and HDTV video encoding, as well as processing and multiplexing
equipment, is used by leading content providers to deliver programming to network operators’ headends and central offices. The segment’s conditional access technology secures the video content during transmission.

Industry

Over the last 15 years, video delivery technology has converted from analog to digital, greatly increasing program choices for consumers and enabling new capabilities such as HDTV, VOD and interactive
services. During this period, both traditional cable operators and telcos have expanded their offerings to deliver video, voice and data services (“triple play”).

Providing video, voice and data services to consumers is a highly competitive business and the segment’s customers compete aggressively to provide individual services, triple play packages and even
quad play packages, which also include mobile voice and data services. The competitive environment is driving operators to enhance and expand service offerings by adding more high definition (“HD”) channels, three dimensional television
(“3D-TV”), increasing data speeds, mobile data services and providing new experiences that bridge conventional TV and Internet services.

In 2010, while there was some economic recovery from the 2009 adverse macroeconomic conditions, demand had not yet returned to pre-2009 levels.

Competition

The segment’s set-top boxes and cable and wireline
infrastructure equipment products compete in highly competitive global markets. The segment has a broad array of competitors including those with whom it competes across multiple product categories and those who are focused on products in a portion
of the segment’s portfolio. The rapid technology changes occurring in the markets in which this segment competes may lead to the entry of new competitors. General competitive factors in the market for the segment’s products and systems
include: technology; product and system performance; price; time-to-market; product features; quality; delivery and availability. Currently, the segment’s primary competitors include Cisco, Pace and Arris.







The cable industry had a long history of protecting the video content transmitted over its
network by using a conditional access system that was integrated into the set-top box. The FCC passed regulations that took effect in 2007 requiring separation of security functionality from the set-top box. These regulations enable competitors to
sell set-top boxes to cable operators and enable retail distribution of TVs and other devices that are capable of accessing encrypted cable programming through use of a cable operator-supplied security module. Several major cable operators support a
full two-way security interface, which allows consumers with such a retail device to access all programming available on the operator’s network without the need for an operator-provided set-top box. As a result, the segment faces competition
from several new manufacturers which are able to supply set-top boxes to operators, and, to a lesser extent, from consumer electronics manufacturers which sell directly through retail.

Other Information

Financial Information About Segments.The response to this section of Item 1
incorporates by reference Note 12, “Information by Segment and Geographic Region,” of Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this document.

Customers.The Company has several large customers, the loss of one or more of
which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In 2010, aggregate net sales to the Company’s five largest customers represented approximately 32% of the Company’s sales. During 2010 and 2009, approximately 18% and 10%,
respectively of net sales were to one customer, Verizon Communications Inc. (including Verizon Wireless), which was a customer of Motorola Mobility. Approximately 3% of the Company’s aggregate net sales in 2010 were to various branches and
agencies of the U.S. Government, including the armed services. Net sales in 2010 to the U.S. Government represented approximately 8% of the Enterprise Mobility Solutions segment’s net sales in 2010, which is the only remaining segment after the
Separation of Motorola Mobility.

Research and Development.The
Company’s business segments participate in very competitive industries with constant changes in technology. Throughout its history, the Company has relied, and continues to rely, primarily on its research and development (“R&D”)
programs for the development of new products, and on its production engineering capabilities for the improvement of existing products. Management believes, looking forward, that the Company’s commitment to R&D programs should allow its
continuing Enterprise Mobility Solutions segment to remain competitive.

R&D expenditures relating to new product
development or product improvement were $2.5 billion in 2010, compared to $2.6 billion in 2009 and $3.4 billion in 2008. R&D expenditures decreased 3% in 2010 as compared to 2009, after decreasing 24% in 2009 as compared to 2008.
The Company continues to believe that a strong commitment to research and development is required to drive long-term growth. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 21,000 professional employees were engaged in such R&D activities for the
Company and approximately 8,000 professional employees were engaged in R&D activities in our continuing Enterprise Mobility Solutions segment.

Patents and Trademarks.The Company seeks to obtain patents and trademarks to protect our proprietary position whenever possible and practical. As of December 31, 2010, the Company and its
wholly owned subsidiaries, including Motorola Mobility, owned approximately 10,117 patents in the U.S. and 13,732 patents in foreign countries. As of December 31, 2010, the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries had
approximately 3,746 U.S. patent applications pending and 7,048 foreign patent applications pending. These foreign patents and patent applications are mostly counterparts of the Company’s U.S. patents, but a number result from research
conducted outside the U.S. and are originally filed in the country of origin. During 2010, the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries were granted 721 U.S. patents. Following the Separation of Motorola Mobility on January 4, 2011, the
Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries owned approximately 3,572 patents in the U.S. and 3,113 patents in foreign countries and had approximately 1,342 U.S. patent applications pending and approximately 1,957 foreign patent applications
pending. Many of the patents owned by the Company are used in its operations or licensed for use by others, and the Company is licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing fees vary from year to year and are subject to
the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to licenses.

Environmental
Quality.During 2010, compliance with federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, did not have a material effect on
capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the Company.







Employees.At December 31,
2010, there were approximately 51,000 employees of the Company and its subsidiaries, compared to 53,000 employees of the Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2009. Approximately 19,000 employees transferred with Motorola
Mobility as part of the Separation on January 4, 2011.

Financial Information About
Geographic Areas.The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 11, “Commitments and Contingencies” and Note 12, “Information by Segment and Geographic Region” of
Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this document, the “Results of Operations—2010 Compared to 2009” and “Results of Operations—2009 Compared to 2008” sections of Part II,
“Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 1A: Risk Factors” of this document.

Available Information

We make available free of
charge through our website,www.motorolasolutions.com/investor,our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”). Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website,www.sec.gov.Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents:



•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation



•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws



•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines



•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines



•Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board of Directors



•Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola Solutions employees, including the principal executive officers, the
principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer)



•Audit and Legal Committee Charter



•Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter



•Governance and Nominating Committee Charter

All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road,
Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E-mail:investors@motorolasolutions.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Definitive Proxy Statement may also be requested in hardcopy by clicking on “Printed Materials” atwww.motorolasolutions.com/investor. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.









