Item 1: Business



General

We design, manufacture, and sell communications infrastructure, devices, system software and applications, and provide services associated with their use.  Our products and services are designed to help our government and enterprise customers improve their operations through increased effectiveness and efficiency of their mobile workforce and can be found in a wide range of workplaces, from the retail floor to the warehouse floor, and from the small town police station to the most secure government offices.

We conduct our businesses globally and manage them by product lines.  Our broad lines of products are categorized into two segments, which are:

Government:The Government segment includes public safety communications systems, professional and commercial two-way communication systems, and the devices, system software and applications that are associated with these products.  Service revenues included in the Government segment are primarily those associated with the design, installation, maintenance and optimization of equipment for communication systems, as well as lifecycle management solutions and a portfolio of managed system services.

Enterprise:The Enterprise segment includes rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computers and tablets, laser/imaging/radio frequency identification (“RFID”) based data capture products, wireless local area network (“WLAN”) and integrated digital enhanced network (“iDEN”) infrastructure, software and applications that are associated with these products.  Enterprise service revenues include maintenance, integration, and device and network management.

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation, Motorola, Inc., organized in 1928.  We changed our name from Motorola, Inc. to Motorola Solutions, Inc. on January 4, 2011.  Our principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196.



Government Segment

The Government segment's products and services are sold to a wide range of customers, including government, public safety and first-responder agencies, municipalities and commercial and industrial customers who operate private communications networks and manage a mobile workforce.  In2013, the Government segment's net sales represented approximately69%of Motorola Solutions’ consolidated net sales.

Our Industry, Products, and Services

The Government segment has the following principal product lines:

Public Safety Radio Systems:We offer an extensive portfolio of network infrastructure, devices, system software and applications, and provide services based on standards, including our "ASTRO" products, which meet the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials Project 25 (“APCO P25”) standard, and our "Dimetra" products which meet the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (“ETSI”) Terrestrial Trunked Radio (“TETRA”) standard, as well as broadband technologies (Long-Term Evolution (“LTE”) and WiFi).  In addition, we offer critical system software and applications and the ability to integrate application platforms in the public safety command center, including voice, computer aided dispatch, and multimedia, including video.

Professional & Commercial Radio Systems ("PCR"):We offer an extensive portfolio of radios and communication systems to enhance productivity and safety for mobile and field workers in the hospitality, education, manufacturing, transportation, utilities and retail industries.  Our products offer a broad range of price points, functionality and form factors to meet varying customer needs.   Our digital line of MOTOTRBO products meet the open Digital Mobile Radio ("DMR") standard developed by ETSI.










Services:Services in this segment are comprised of integration and customization services, installation, and maintenance services for both public safety and private communications networks.  Our lifecycle management services have been expanded to include: (i) offerings which maintain system operations via hardware and software maintenance, (ii) device management, (iii) migration assistance programs to ensure the customer system remains up-to-date on software and hardware, and (iv) full turn-key managed service agreements where we maintain and manage networks on the customers' behalf.

Our Strategy and Focus Areas

Our strategy in the Government segment is to partner with our customers to enable them to efficiently deliver reliable services through our innovative products and best-in-class services.  We have a history of delivering these products and services by focusing on the following areas:

•Building technology that is second nature to the mission-critical user

•Building technology that improves productivity and safety

•Driving innovation and thought leadership

•Ensuring security and resiliency

•Providing ongoing support for customer investments

•Delivering complete solutions, comprised of infrastructure, devices, system software and applications, and services to solve complex communication needs

This focus provides us with the leadership position we have in our core products.  We have demonstrated strong and consistent financial results by:  (i) leading the ongoing migration to digital products, (ii) managing the public/private convergence of 700MHz public safety systems in the U.S. and digital dividend spectrum worldwide, (iii) continuing to innovate APCO P25, TETRA and DMR standards-based voice and data communication systems around the world, and (iv) enhancing our services offerings through network and application integration, and network and device management.

We believe we have the scale and global presence in the Government segment to continue to maintain a leadership position in our core products.  We have over 10,000 systems deployed in over 130 countries around the world.  These systems have a multi-year useful life to the customer.  We believe many of our government and commercial customers globally have yet to replace aged analog communications networks with next generation digital systems that enable enhanced features and more efficient use of spectrum, providing us opportunities to help customers migrate to these digital systems.

New functionality and new markets continue to emerge in the industry which provide us opportunities for growth by enhancing the value we deliver as a full solutions vendor.  Our Government segment pursues a growth strategy which includes:  (i) the development of next-generation public safety solutions including devices, public safety LTE systems, and critical command center applications that include voice, data and video, (ii) development of new products for use in vertical market expansion, (iii) geographical penetration, and (iv) on-going refresh of our product portfolio.

Our investment in research and development ("R&D") for next generation public safety broadband networks based on the LTE standard is a reflection of our belief that LTE is an important next generation tool for our public safety and first-responder customers.  We believe our expertise in both public and private mission critical and business critical networks makes us well-positioned to provide public safety LTE solutions.  We are developing a robust public safety LTE product portfolio and pursuing FirstNet early adopters, as well as customers with access to spectrum. We are pursuing our international funnel of LTE solutions while the United States ("U.S.") completes its LTE implementation plan (seeRegulatory Mattersfor further discussion).

We continue to pursue different geographies as part of our growth strategy.  Geographical penetration is accelerated by our investments supporting:  (i) different regional interfaces, (ii) different languages, (iii) tailored form factors, and (iv) unique feature sets.

Our Government segment growth strategy also includes the development of products and services for core-adjacent markets outside of the public safety and commercial markets we currently serve.  A portion of our new product introductions in recent years include specialized products for the hospitality, mining, classified communications, military, transportation, education and utility vertical markets ("verticals").

Our Customers

We address the communication needs of government agencies, state and local public safety and first-responder agencies, and commercial and industrial customers who operate private communications networks and manage a mobile workforce.  Our customers rely on us for the expertise, products and services we provide and trusting our years of innovation. By partnering with customers and observing how our products can help in their specific industries, we are able to enhance our customers’ experience.  We believe government and commercial customers globally are just beginning to experience the benefits of converged wireless communications, mobility and efficiencies realized through mobile broadband.










Our largest customer is the U.S. government (through multiple contracts with its various branches and agencies, including the armed services), which represented approximately8%of the segment's net sales and6%of the Company's net sales in2013.  The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings over several quarters, because some of our contracts with the U.S. government are long-term.  All contracts with the U.S. government are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the U.S. government.

Net sales in North America continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately64%of the segment’s net sales in2013and approximately63%in2012.

Our sales model includes both direct sales by our in-house sales force, which tends to focus on our largest accounts, and sales through our channel partner program. Our channel partners include distributors, value added resellers and independent software vendors.  Resellers and distributors each have their own sales organizations that complement and extend the reach of our sales force. With deep expertise in individual customers' operations, resellers and distributor are very effective in promoting sales of our product portfolio.  The independent software vendors in our channel partner program offer customized applications that meet specific needs in the vertical markets we serve.

Our Competition

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive.  Key competitive factors include: product performance, product features, product quality, availability, warranty, price, availability of vendor financing, quality and availability of service, company reputation and financial strength, partner community, and relationships with key customers.  Our strong relationships with customers and partners, strong brand, technology leadership, breadth of portfolio, product performance and support position us well for success.

We experience widespread competition from a growing number of existing and new competitors, including large system integrators and manufacturers of private and public wireless network equipment and devices.  Competitors include: Alcatel-Lucent, Cassidian, Harris, Hytera, Kenwood, Sepura and Tait.

Large system integrators, such as Northrop Grumman and Raytheon, are seeking to move further into the government customer space. We and our competitors may serve as subcontractors to large system integrators and are selected based on a number of competitive factors and customer requirements. Where favorable, we may partner with large system integrators to make available our portfolio of network infrastructure, devices, system software and applications and services.

Several other competitive factors may have an impact on our Government segment, including: evolving developments in the 700 MHz band, increasing investment by broadband and IP solution providers, and new low-tier vendors. As demand for fully integrated voice, data, and broadband systems continue, we may face additional competition from public telecommunications carriers and telecommunications equipment providers.



Enterprise Segment

The Enterprise segment's products and services are sold to a wide range of enterprise customers, including those in retail, hospitality, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, warehouse and distribution centers, energy and utilities, education and healthcare.  In2013, the Enterprise segment's net sales represented approximately31%of Motorola Solutions' consolidated net sales.

Our Industry, Products and Services

The Enterprise segment has the following principal product lines:

Enterprise Mobile Computing:We design, manufacture, and sell rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computing products in a variety of specialized form factors for specific enterprise applications. These form factors include handheld mobile computers, gun handle mobile computers, tablets, vehicle mounted computers and wearable computers. These specialized computers are used in industrial applications (e.g. inventory management in warehouses and distribution centers), field mobility applications (e.g. field service, post and parcel, and direct store delivery) and customer facing applications (e.g. mobile point of sale and staff communication). Our product lines feature products based on both Microsoft and Android operating systems and support local-area and wide-area voice and/or data communications. Our mobile computing products often include barcode scanning, Global Positioning System (“GPS”) and RFID features. We also provide accessories and software applications to complement our mobile computers.

Data Capture:We produce a wide array of bar code scanners and RFID products for a variety of verticals. Our bar code scanning portfolio includes fixed, handheld and vehicle-mounted laser scanners and linear and area imagers. These devices can collect and wirelessly decode bar codes and transmit the resulting data to enterprise systems. Our RFID products include fixed, handheld and vehicle-mounted RFID readers. Our RFID product line is focused on passive ultra high frequency ("UHF") technology and complies with the electronic product code global Generation 2 UHF standard and similar standards around the world. We also provide accessories and software to complement our barcode scanners and RFID products.










WLAN:We bring wireless broadband capabilities and WLAN primarily to retail, transportation and logistics, and to hospitality enterprises through WLAN switches, controllers, and access points. Our WLAN solution is optimized for these enterprise needs, including an architecture which minimizes the information technology resources required in retail branches, indoor and outdoor access for distribution centers, and access points designed specifically for hospitality guest rooms.

iDEN:We design and deliver network infrastructure, software, and services supporting the iDen mobile communication technology. iDEN infrastructure provides integrated trunked radio, cellular telephone, and data services.

Services:Our Enterprise service offerings have historically been primarily related to product support.  However, we have expanded our services offerings to also include network integration and network and device management, as well as mobility consulting.

Our Strategy

Our strategy in the Enterprise segment is to deliver technologies to empower the mobile worker, enable real-time asset visibility and engage the smart consumer.  We invest in R&D to maintain technology leadership in key product technologies such as scanning and imaging engines. We also continuously invest in refreshing the technology and capabilities of our main product lines and in creating the next generation of category leading products. Our goal is to be able to offer the broadest product portfolios in this segment's verticals to help capture new customers and offer the best product alternatives to current customers in need of new products. We are also a global business and continuously work to increase our presence and position in the largest and fastest growing markets in the world.  We believe that long-term growth opportunities exist within the Enterprise segment, as the global workforce continues to become more mobile and enterprise customers continue to focus on improving their workforce efficiency and productivity.

In our Enterprise Mobile Computing product group, we are expanding our devices portfolio to address the needs of an increasingly mobile workforce. We are also helping our customers navigate an industry transition in mobile operating systems by offering products with both Microsoft and Android operating systems. In addition, we offer our RhoMobile Suite, a set of development tools that help businesses write, integrate, deploy and manage applications on enterprise devices that work across platforms, from iOS and Android to Windows Mobile. In our Data Capture product group, we are investing in 2D imaging technology and products in order to be well positioned as the industry transitions from 1D laser based barcodes to 2D barcodes.We are also expanding our devices portfolio to address new markets, including bioptic and linear scanning and imaging. In our WLAN product group, we are investing in application and services to complement our portfolio of wireless infrastructure and device products in order to help our customers achieve their business objectives.

Our Customers

Our products and services are sold to a wide range of enterprise customers, principally those in retail, transportation and logistics, including warehouse and distribution centers, manufacturing, hospitality, energy and utilities, education and healthcare.  These customers operate a large and diverse mobile workforce and are continuously focused on improving their operations through greater employee efficiency, greater asset visibility and superior customer service.  Our product and services portfolio delivers attractive return on technology investment for our customers.  In addition to serving our existing customers, we believe that we have opportunities to pursue profitable growth by deepening our reach across lesser served vertical markets. For example, our Psion acquisition in 2012 improved our position in industrial manufacturing, shipping yards, and cold chain.

Net sales in North America continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately44%of the segment’s net sales in2013and approximately47%in2012.

Our sales model includes both direct sales by our in-house sales force and sales through our channel partner program.  Our channel partners include: distributors, value added resellers and independent software vendors.  Resellers and distributors each have their own sales organizations that complement and extend the reach of our sales force.  With deep expertise about specific customers' operations, resellers are very effective in promoting sales of our product portfolio.  The independent software vendors in our channel partner program offer customized applications that meet specific needs in each vertical market we serve.  Our Enterprise segment utilizes our channel partners more extensively than our Government segment, as the products of this segment generally support a broad range of applications.

Our Competition

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive.  Economic pressure, growth of mobile workers worldwide, industry consolidation, business model evolution and technology shifts are creating opportunities for established and new competitors.  Key competitive factors include product and services portfolio breadth, product performance, product and service availability and warranty, product and service quality, strength of company relationships with customers and partners, and company reputation.  Our strong relationships with customers and partners, strong brand, history of innovation, product portfolio breadth, strong position in data capture technologies, superior product design and performance, and evolving services offerings, which allow our customers to outsource significant portions of their network management needs, position us well for success.










We experience widespread competition from a growing number of existing and new competitors, including present manufacturers of data capture devices, notebook computers and tablets, smart phones, cordless phones, and cellular/WLAN/wired infrastructure equipment.  Competitors include: Apple, Aruba, Bluebird, Cisco, Datalogic, HP, Honeywell (which recently acquired Intermec), Panasonic, Ruckus and Samsung.



Other Information



Backlog

Our backlog includes all product and service orders that have been received and are believed to be firm.  As ofDecember 31, 2013andDecember 31, 2012our backlog was as follows:

December 31(In millions)20132012Government$5,383$4,937Enterprise833782$6,216$5,719

Approximately32%of the Government backlog and75%of the Enterprise backlog is expected to be recognized as revenue during2014.  The forward-looking estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may cause the amount recognized to change.



Research and Development

We continue to prioritize investments in R&D to expand and improve our portfolio of products through both new product introductions and continuous enhancements to our existing products.  In the Government segment our R&D programs are focused on the development of: (i) new public safety devices and infrastructure, (ii) public safety broadband networks based on the LTE standard, (iii) critical command center applications that include voice, data and video, and (iv) the development of new products for use in vertical expansion. In the Enterprise segment our R&D programs are focused on:  (i) the continuous expansion of our devices portfolio including products using both the Microsoft and Android operating systems, (ii) development of 2D imaging technology and products, (iii) expansion of our devices portfolio to address new markets including bioptic and linear scanning and imaging, and (iv) continued expansion of applications to complement our portfolio of wireless infrastructure and devices.

R&D expenditures were$1.1 billionin 2013 and 2012 and$1.0 billionin 2011. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately7,000employees engaged in R&D activities. In addition, we engage in R&D activities with joint development and manufacturing partners and outsource certain activities to engineering firms to further supplement our internal spend.



Payment Terms

Payment terms vary worldwide, depending on the arrangement. Generally, contract payment terms range from 30 to 45 days from the invoice date within North America and typically do not exceed 90 days from the invoice date in regions outside of North America. A portion of the contracts within our Government segment include implementation milestones, such as delivery, installation and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on completion of the milestone.

We generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required for competitive reasons, we may provide long-term financing in connection with equipment purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the purchase price.












Regulatory Matters

The use of wireless voice, data and video communications systems requires radio spectrum, which is regulated by government agencies throughout the world. In the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) regulate spectrum use by non-federal entities and federal entities, respectively. Similarly, countries around the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and implement the rules for use of the radio spectrum, pursuant to their respective national laws and international coordination under the International Telecommunications Union (“ITU”).  We manufacture and market products in spectrum bands already made available by regulatory bodies. These include voice and data infrastructure, mobile radios and portable or hand held devices. Consequently, our results could be positively or negatively affected by the rules and regulations adopted from time to time by the FCC, NTIA or regulatory agencies in other countries. Our products operate both on licensed and unlicensed spectrum.  The availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities, and consequently, the loss of available radio spectrum may result in the loss of business opportunities. Regulatory changes in current spectrum bands may also provide opportunities or may require modifications to some of our products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed.

As television transmission and reception technology transitions from analog to more efficient digital modes, various countries around the world are examining, and in some cases already pursuing, the redevelopment of portions of the television  spectrum. In the U.S., pursuant to federal legislation, analog television stations ceased operation in the broadcast television spectrum on June 12, 2009. As a result of this transition, 108 MHz of spectrum historically used for broadcast television,  known as the 700MHz band, has been redeveloped and deployed for new uses (the so-called “digital dividend” spectrum), including broadband and narrowband wireless communications.  The 700 MHz band spectrum is open nationwide and according to FCC records, over 193 public safety agencies throughout over 31 states have been deploying narrowband operations at 700 MHz and others are in the planning stages.  These deployments create opportunities for our narrowband ASTRO solutions.  For example, in August 2013, the Los Angeles Regional Interoperable Communications System Authority (LA-RICS) selected Motorola Solutions to develop a radio system that will provide mission critical communications for the region’s more than 34,000 law enforcement, fire service and health service professionals and more than 80 public safety agencies.

In March 2012, Canada released a decision to allocate ten MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band for public safety broadband.  Subsequently, in August 2012, Canada proposed that an additional and adjacent ten MHz also be allocated to public safety for broadband use.  A decision on that additional ten MHz of spectrum is expected in 2014.  If adopted, this would harmonize Canada's 700 MHz band plan with that in the U.S.

In June 2013, in Mexico, the Constitutional Reform in Telecommunications Law went into effect which requires the federal government to build a nationwide broadband network through a public-private partnership, using 90 MHz from the 700 MHz band.  Deployment of this network is expected to start in 2014 and is targeted for completion by the end of 2018.  It is anticipated that broadband for public safety will be part of this network.  Currently, the government of Mexico is drafting regulations related to the implementation of this law.












Internationally, the ITU World Radio Conference ("WRC") was held in Geneva during the first quarter of 2012.  During this conference, leaders from United Nations member countries considered a number of initiatives, including whether to allocate additional spectrum for commercial broadband use as well as whether to allocate spectrum dedicated for public safety broadband.  The WRC agreed to consider spectrum for public safety broadband.  Studies are underway to assess whether and how much spectrum is needed  and to develop recommendations on where in the spectrum range the spectrum should be allocated (taking into account regional and global harmonization to the extent practicable).  The issue made it onto the agenda for the next WRC in 2015.  The result could be future allocations for dedicated broadband spectrum for public safety which will provide opportunities for us in the future.  In addition, certain countries already have spectrum landscapes that would permit country administrations to allocate public safety spectrum today.  A WRC initiative can spur individual countries to act sooner, which may also create opportunities for our broadband solutions in the nearer term.

Other Regulatory Matters

Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Certain of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products.



Intellectual Property Matters

Patent protection is important to our operations. We have a U.S. and international portfolio of patents relating to our products, systems and technologies, including research developments in radio frequency technology and circuits, wireless network technologies, over-the-air protocols, mission critical two-way radio communications and advanced data capture. We have filed patent applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as in foreign patent offices.

We license some of our patents to third-parties, but licensing revenue is not significant. We are also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing fees vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to licenses.  In addition, Motorola Solutions has a royalty free license under all of the patents and patent applications assigned to Motorola Mobility at the time of the separation of the two businesses in 2011 and will continue to enjoy the benefit of that license even with the acquisition of Motorola Mobility by Google and following the sale of those patents to Lenovo or others.

We actively participate in the development of standards for interoperable, mission-critical digital two-way radio systems. Our patents are used in various standards including APCO P25, ETSI, TETRA, DMR and digital private mobile radio ("dPMR").  We offer licenses to those patents on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.

Notwithstanding the transfer of patents to Motorola Mobility, the expiration of certain patents and the potential for increased competition for some of our products in the future, we believe that our patent portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas as well as provide leverage for future technologies. Furthermore, we believe we are not dependent upon a single patent or a few patents. Our success depends more upon our extensive know-how, innovative culture, technical leadership and marketing abilities. We do not rely primarily on patents or other intellectual property rights to protect or establish our market position; however, we will enforce our intellectual property rights in certain technologies when attempts to negotiate mutually agreeable licenses are not successful.



Patents and Trademarks

We seek to obtain patents and trademarks to protect our proprietary position whenever possible and practical. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we owned approximately 6,600 patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately 2,400 U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. Foreign patents and patent applications are mostly counterparts of our U.S. patents. During2013, we were granted 300 U.S. patents and 400 patents in other countries.

We no longer own certain logos and other trademarks, trade names and service marks, including MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M logo and all derivatives thereof (“Motorola Marks”) and we license the Motorola Marks from Motorola Mobility, which is currently owned by Google, but under contract to be sold to Lenovo.



Inventory, Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality

Our practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory to meet customers’ delivery requirements in a manner consistent with industry standards. We provide custom products which require the stocking of inventories and a large variety of piece parts and replacement parts in order to meet delivery and warranty requirements. To the extent suppliers’ product life cycles are shorter than ours, stocking of lifetime buy inventories is required to meet long-term warranty and contractual requirements. In addition, replacement parts are stocked for delivery on customer demand within a short delivery cycle.

Availability of materials and components required is generally dependable; however, fluctuations in supply and market demand could cause selective shortages and affect our results of operations. We currently procure certain materials and components from single-source vendors. A material disruption from a single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact










on our results of operations. If certain single-source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact our financial results.

Natural gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy for our manufacturing operations. Each of these resources is currently in adequate supply for our operations. The cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to our manufacturing facilities. Difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned resources or a significant cost increase could affect our financial results.

Generally, our contracts do not include a right of return, other than for standard warranty provisions; however, certain distributor partners within the commercial enterprise markets do maintain limited stock rotation rights.  Due to buying customer patterns in the markets we serve, sales tend to be somewhat higher in the fourth quarter.



Environmental Quality

During2013, compliance with U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.



Employees

AtDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately21,000employees, compared to22,000employees atDecember 31, 2012.



Financial Information About Geographic Areas

The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 11, “Commitments and Contingencies” and Note 12, “Information by Segment and Geographic Region” of Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this document, the “Results of Operations—2013Compared to2012” and “Results of Operations—2012Compared to2011” sections of Part II, “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 1A: Risk Factors” of this document.



Financial Information About Segments

The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 12, “Information by Segment and Geographic Region,” of Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this document.



Available Information

We make available free of charge through our website, www.motorolasolutions.com/investors,our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website,www.sec.gov.Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents:

•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation with Amendments

•Conformed Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Motorola Solutions, Inc. (amended Jan. 4, 2011)

•Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Motorola, Inc. (effective Jan. 4, 2011)

•Certificate of Ownership and Merger of Motorola Name Change Corporation into Motorola, Inc. (effective Jan. 4, 2011)

•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws

•Board Governance Guidelines

•Director Independence Guidelines

•Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board of Directors

•Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola Solutions employees, including the principal executive officers, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer)

•Audit Committee Charter

•Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter

•Governance and Nominating Committee Charter

All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E-mail:investors@motorolasolutions.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Definitive Proxy Statement may also be requested in










hardcopy by clicking on “Printed Materials” at www.motorolasolutions.com/investors. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.












