Item 1: Business

General

We provide technologies, products and services that make a broad range of mobile experiences possible. Our portfolio includes wireless
handsets, wireless accessories, digital entertainment devices, set-top boxes and video distribution systems, analog and digital two-way radios, wireless and wireline broadband network products, and
end-to-end enterprise mobility products. With the rapid convergence of fixed and mobile broadband Internet and the growing demand for next-generation mobile communications products by
people, businesses and governments, we are focused on high-quality, innovative products that meet the expanding needs of our customers around the world.

We
operate in the following businesses:

•TheMobile Devicesbusiness designs, manufactures, sells and services
wireless handsets, including smartphones, with integrated software and accessory products, and licenses intellectual property.•TheHome and Networks Mobilitybusiness designs, manufactures, sells,
installs and services: digital video, Internet Protocol video and broadcast network interactive set-tops, end-to-end video distribution systems, broadband access
infrastructure platforms, data and voice customer premise equipment, wireless and wireline cable and cellular broadband networks.•TheEnterprise Mobility Solutionsbusiness designs, manufactures, sells,
installs and services analog and digital two-way radios, wireless LAN and security products, voice and data communications products and systems for private networks, wireless broadband
systems and end-to-end enterprise mobility solutions.

Motorola
is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation organized in 1928. Motorola's principal executive offices are
located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196.

Business Segments

We report financial results for the following three operating business segments:

Mobile Devices Segment

The Mobile Devices segment ("Mobile Devices" or the "segment") designs, manufactures, sells and services wireless handsets, including
smartphones, with integrated software and accessory products, and licenses intellectual property. In 2009, the segment's net sales represented 32% of the Company's consolidated net sales.

Principal Products and Services

Our wireless subscriber products include wireless handsets and related software and accessory products. We also license our
intellectual property. We market our products globally to carriers and consumers through direct sales, distributors and retailers.









Our Industry

In 2009, total industry shipments of wireless handsets decreased approximately 6% compared to 2008, primarily as a result of the global
economic downturn. This was the first annual decline in handset industry unit shipments since 2001. The economic downturn resulted in slower growth in the emerging
markets and lower replacement sales in highly-penetrated markets, primarily in the U.S. and Western Europe. By the fourth quarter of 2009, the industry began showing signs of recovery with positive
quarterly year-over-year growth.

With
many customers maintaining tight inventory management during 2009, a strengthening global economy and improving consumer demand, the recent handset market recovery is expected to
continue through 2010. Analysts are predicting total industry handset shipments to increase approximately 9% (on average) for the full-year 2010 compared to 2009. Growth is expected to be
driven from new subscribers in emerging markets and increasing demand for smartphones.

Smartphones
are expected to be the fastest growing and the most profitable segment of the mobile handset industry over the next several years. Key drivers of this growth include:
(i) consumer desires for feature-rich devices that provide access to mobile Internet, media, social networking, navigation and messaging at anytime and anyplace,
(ii) operators drive to increase data ARPU (average revenue per user) to offset declining voice ARPU, (iii) the trend toward open operating systems that provide computer-like
functionality to handsets, and (iv) the evolution of networks to support high-speed Internet access (3G and 4G).

Our Strategy

The Mobile Devices segment is focused on delivering compelling, mobile experiences to consumers while becoming the hub of people's
lives and the gateway to the mobile Internet. With the Android operating platform and our MOTOBLURTMsoftware solution and MotoDEV application development program, we intend to provide
applications and services to support end-to-end, customizable solutions desired by consumers.

As
the market evolves to reflect the emergence of converged wireless devices, mobile Internet, media/video, social networking, navigation and messaging, the shift from voice-centric
devices to data-centric devices continues to accelerate. These devices, which include smartphones developed on open platforms, deliver unique consumer experiences and require complete
end-to-end solutions that incorporate various applications and services. By utilizing the smartphone, we are able to deliver computer-like functionality, such as
web browsing and email, across our portfolio. We believe that open platforms foster innovation and encourage the development of applications suited to consumers, wherever they are located.

Our
primary smartphone development is based on the Android operating system (a Google-developed, royalty-free open platform). The Android platform is a modular operating
system which enables multiple simultaneous operations. It provides a well-developed ecosystem that continues to grow with a broad range of applications.

We
are differentiating our Android smartphone experience through our unique MOTOBLUR software solution. MOTOBLUR utilizes cloud-based services to help ensure that our users digital lives
can be accessed from anywhere. It combines content-forward, deeply integrated software applications and a unique interface with a server-based back-end solution that gathers, organizes and
delivers fresh content and data automatically. In addition to MOTOBLUR, we are enabling third-party solutions through our MotoDEV
application development programs. MotoDEV leverages partner ecosystems to deliver customizable content to consumers. This content can be pre-loaded, embedded or downloaded on
Android-powered devices. In some markets, as in China, we offer our SHOP4APPS application store to provide consumers additional applications and service choices.

As
the segment creates stronger software solutions and capabilities, we continue to invest in next-generation technologies for wireless devices based on High-Speed Downlink
Packet Access (HSDPA) and Long-Term Evolution (LTE). These investments provide opportunities to differentiate our products as we develop smartphones that support the migration toward
higher network bandwidth.

In
addition to our smartphone portfolio and focus on delivering key experiences, we are also (i) maintaining our technological leadership in our proprietary iDEN technology,
(ii) focusing on priority markets, (iii) selectively offering voice-centric devices through third-party original design manufacturer ("ODM") development, and (iv) leveraging
companion products to deliver complete mobile experiences.











The
Mobile Devices segment continues to maintain a strong market position with its iDEN technology. Increased demand in North America, as well as internationally, drove iDEN growth in
2009. Our iDEN strategy aligns with our focus on priority regions.

We
are increasing our focus in priority markets, which include North America, parts of Asia, including China, and Latin America. Historically, these are regions in which we have
experienced strong market share and brand position. In other regions, we will prioritize and make investments commensurate with the competitiveness of our portfolio. In the long term, we plan to
compete in all major markets. In order to successfully compete in our prioritized regions, maintain brand awareness and provide products at multiple price points, we are working with ODM partners to
generate lower-end, voice-centric devices. Along with our mobile handset initiatives, we will leverage our companion products portfolio to extend smartphone experiences through companion
devices.

Customers

The segment has several large customers located throughout the world. In 2009, aggregate net sales to the segment's five largest
customers represented approximately 54% of the segment's net sales. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the segment's business. In addition to selling
directly to carriers and operators, our Mobile Devices business also sells products through a variety of third-party distributors and retailers, which accounted for approximately 21% of the segment's
net sales in 2009.

Beginning
in late 2008 and throughout 2009, uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions caused our customers to maintain tighter inventory management. We expect this
inventory management trend to continue in 2010.

The
U.S. market continued to be the segment's largest individual market, accounting for approximately 58% of the segment's net sales in 2009, compared to approximately 44% of the
segment's net sales in 2008. In 2009, the segment's largest markets outside the U.S. were Brazil, China, Mexico and Korea. In 2009 compared to 2008, the segment experienced sales declines in each of
its four major sales regions: North America; the Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") region; Asia and Latin America.

Competition

The wireless handset market is highly competitive and many new competitors have entered the market in the last several years. As the
market continues to move toward smartphones, this trend may result in even more competition.

The
segment experiences increasingly intense competition in worldwide markets from numerous global competitors. In 2009, the three largest handset manufacturers together held an
aggregate market share of approximately 69%. In addition, non-traditional device manufacturers continue to enter the marketplace while second-tier vendors, in regions such as
Asia, provide another layer of competition.

In
2009, the segment's overall market share decreased significantly and the segment was the fifth-largest worldwide supplier of wireless handsets on a full-year basis.

General
competitive factors in the market for the segment's products include: overall quality of user experience; design; time-to-market; brand awareness;
technology offered; price; product features; performance; quality; delivery and warranty; the quality and availability of service; and relationships with key customers.

Payment Terms

The segment's customers and distributors buy from us regularly with payment terms that are competitive with current industry practices.
These terms vary globally and generally range from cash-with-order to 60 days. Extended payment terms beyond 60 days are provided to certain customers on a
limited basis. A customer's outstanding credit at any point in time is limited to a predetermined amount as established by the Company.

Regulatory Matters

Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and other
countries, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services. The growth of the wireless and personal communications industry may be affected if adequate frequencies are not allocated or,
alternatively, if new technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated for such use. Industry









growth
may also be affected by the cost of the new licenses required to use frequencies and any related frequency relocation costs.

The
U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing new wireless communications technologies to be developed and offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network
systems, such as WiFi, and wide area network systems, such as WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also deregulated portions of their available spectrum to allow deployment of these and other new
technologies. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new opportunities for Motorola and our customers.

Backlog

The segment's backlog (excluding any deferred revenue) was $409 million at December 31, 2009, compared to
$290 million at December 31, 2008. This increase in backlog is primarily due to demand for our smartphones that were launched in the fourth quarter of 2009. The 2009 backlog is believed
to be generally firm and 100% of that amount is expected to be recognized as revenue in 2010. The forward-looking estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may cause the
amount recognized to change.

Intellectual Property Matters

Patent protection is extremely important to the segment's operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its
products, technologies and manufacturing processes. The segment licenses certain of its patents to third parties and generates revenue from these licenses. Motorola is also licensed to use certain
patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing fees vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to licenses. The protection of these
licenses is also important to the segment's operations. For additional information relating to patents and
trademarks and research and development activities with respect to this segment, see the discussion under "Other Information."

Inventory, Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality

The segment's practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory in manufacturing and distribution centers in order to meet customer
delivery requirements in a manner consistent with industry standards. At the end of 2009, the segment had a significantly lower inventory balance than at the end of 2008. The decrease reflects lower
sales requirements and significant improvements in inventory management processes.

Availability
of materials and components required by the segment is relatively dependable; however, fluctuations in supply and market demand could cause selective shortages and affect
results. We currently source certain materials and components from single vendors. Any material disruption from a single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.
If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact the
segment's financial results.

Natural
gas, electricity, and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy required for the segment's manufacturing operations. Each of these resources are currently in
generally adequate supply for the segment's operations. In addition, the cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices, which steadily increased during 2009 and
impacted our manufacturing and shipping costs. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to the segment's manufacturing facilities. However, difficulties in obtaining any of the
aforementioned resources or a significant cost increase could affect the segment's results.

The
segment permits returns under limited circumstances to remain competitive with current industry practices.

The
segment typically experiences higher sales in the fourth calendar quarter and lower sales in the first calendar quarter of each year due to seasonal trends in the wireless handset
industry.

Our Facilities/Manufacturing

The segment's headquarters are located in Libertyville, Illinois. Our other major facilities are located in Beijing and Tianjin, China;
Jaguariuna, Brazil; Seoul, South Korea; and Plantation, Florida.

A
significant portion of our handsets are manufactured either completely or substantially by a small number of electronics manufacturing suppliers ("EMSs") and ODMs. The segment relies
on these third-party providers to deliver products that meet consumer demands in the rapidly-changing technological environment. In 2009, our











handsets
were primarily manufactured in China and Brazil, and we expect this to continue in 2010. Our largest manufacturing facilities are located in China and Brazil. Each of these facilities serves
multiple countries and regions of the world.

Home and Networks Mobility Segment

The Home and Networks Mobility segment ("Home and Networks Mobility" or the "segment") designs, manufactures, sells, installs and
services: (i) digital video, Internet Protocol ("IP") video and broadcast network interactive set-tops ("digital entertainment devices"), end-to-end video
distribution systems, broadband access infrastructure platforms, and associated data and voice customer premise equipment ("broadband gateways") to cable television and telecom service providers
(collectively, referred to as the "home business"), and (ii) wireless access systems ("wireless networks"), including cellular infrastructure systems and wireless broadband systems, to wireless
service providers (collectively, referred to as the "networks business"). In 2009, the segment's net sales represented 36% of the Company's consolidated net sales.

Principal Products and Services

In the home business, the segment is a leading provider of end-to-end networks used for the delivery of video,
data and voice services over hybrid fiber coaxial ("HFC") networks, digital subscriber line ("DSL") networks and passive optical networks ("PON"). Our portfolio includes: MPEG video
encoding equipment for standard-definition and high-definition television ("HDTV" or "HD"); video processing and multiplexing systems; and video-on-demand, switched
digital video and conditional access systems used by network operators and programmers to deliver video programming. We provide a broad array of digital entertainment devices supporting analog,
digital and IP video delivery, including HD and digital video recording ("DVR") (together, "HD/DVR") applications. We support the delivery of high-speed data and voice services with
head-end and central office equipment, along with data and voice modems and gateways for HFC and DSL networks and optical line and optical node terminals for PON networks.

In
the networks business, the segment provides end-to-end cellular networks, including radio base stations, base station controllers, associated software and
services, application platforms and third-party switching for CDMA, GSM, iDEN® and UMTS technologies. The segment also offers a portfolio of WiMAX products and is in trials with customers
to provide our LTE technology to enable next-generation mobile IP broadband access. WiMAX and LTE will make mobile bandwidth more affordable and accessible for mainstream consumer
adoption.

Our
products are marketed primarily to cable television operators, telecom operators, wireless service providers, television programmers and other communications providers worldwide and
are sold primarily by our internal sales force.

Our Industry

The home market continues to evolve rapidly as cable and telecom network operators expand video, data, voice and mobile services to
create "triple play" or "quad play" bundles to grow their subscriber base. The competition between cable and telecom service providers continues to increase. Telecom operators are expanding their
broadband networks by offering advanced video and data services using IPTV and PON technologies in a growing number of markets. Cable operators are responding by increasing their HD programming,
bundling voice-over-IP services, expanding their broadband data service through Data Over Cable Service Interface Specifications ("DOCSIS") 3.0 channel bonding, and beginning
to launch mobile data services.

Our
home business is subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") in the United States and other governmental communication regulators throughout the world. FCC
regulations requiring separation of security functionality from cable set-tops became effective in 2007. This has resulted in increased competition for sales of set-top boxes
to cable operators and has enabled retail distribution of televisions and other video devices capable of accessing encrypted cable programming. Our home business offers a cablecard that allows
third-party consumer electronic devices to be deployed on an operator's network using the Motorola conditional access system. Motorola also offers a portfolio of cable card host set-tops
that allows our digital video set-tops to be deployed in service provider networks using third-party encryption technology.









In 2009, the overall market for the home business declined as operators constrained spending due to difficult macroeconomic conditions and the resulting slowdown
in data and digital video subscriber additions, particularly in more mature markets. Declines in spending primarily occurred for infrastructure products, data consumer premise equipment (CPE) products
and digital set-tops in North America. These market declines were partially offset by increases in international sales of IP set-tops. Spending will be influenced by video and
data subscribers' increasing demand for advanced video platforms and applications, as well as from telecom operators' upgrading their networks and adding video services. The growth of broadband
connectivity is expected to continue as demand for high-speed data causes cable operators to upgrade to DOCSIS 3.0 and telecom service providers to deploy very high speed digital subscriber line
("VDSL") and PON data services.

In
the wireless networks market, the majority of installed cellular infrastructure systems are based on CDMA, GSM, UMTS and iDEN technologies. We supply systems based on each of these
technologies and are the sole supplier of proprietary iDEN networks. Advanced infrastructure systems based on these technologies include GPRS, CDMA-1X and EDGE. In addition, many
cellular service providers have migrated to 3G networks, which are high-capacity radio access wireless networks providing enhanced data services, improved Internet access and increased
voice capacity. The primary 3G technologies are W-CDMA (based on either UMTS or Freedom of Mobile Multimedia Access ("FOMA") technologies) and CDMA 2000 1xEVDO. We supply 3G systems based
on UMTS and CDMA 2000 1xEVDO technologies. An additional 3G technology standard, TD-SCDMA, has been driven primarily by the Chinese government and local Chinese vendors. China's Ministry
of Industry and Information Technology has assigned 3G licenses for three different 3G standards, driving regional network upgrades.

The
International Telecommunications Union ("ITU") that develops the global framework for information and communications networks has established performance requirements for its
IMT-Advanced standard, commonly referred as 4thgeneration (4G) wireless access. Standards bodies are developing specifications to meet the 4G requirements based on
orthogonal frequency division multiplexing ("OFDM") technology which will utilize wider channels and offer higher data rates to expand broadband access offerings. Today, the standards bodies are
evolving the WiMAX and LTE standards towards meeting the IMT-Advanced specifications. The 3rdGeneration Partnership Project ("3GPP"), which defined the industry's GSM
specifications, is developing an LTE-Advanced standard to address the IMT-Advanced requirements. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ("IEEE"), which defined
standards known as fixed WiMAX (802.16d) and mobile WiMAX (802.16e), is also developing the 802.16m standard to address the IMT-Advanced requirements.

Licensing
bodies of governments around the world are making spectrum available for advanced wireless technologies, including 4G, in recognition of growing demand for wireless broadband
services. Currently, Motorola estimates that there are over 1,700 license holders worldwide for broadband wireless access technologies. The WiMAX market, which now totals over 500 WiMAX networks in
147 different countries, has experienced strong growth since commercial deployments began. While WiMAX has been the early leader in broadband access deployments, LTE has widespread industry support,
not only from current GSM and UMTS operators, but also from CDMA/EV-DO based carriers.

Demand
for our products depends primarily on capital spending by providers of cellular and broadband services for constructing, rebuilding or upgrading their communications systems, as
well as the marketing of advanced communications services by those providers. The amount of spending by these providers, and therefore a majority of our sales and profitability, are affected by a
variety of factors, including: (i) the continuing trend of consolidation within the cable, wireline and wireless industries, (ii) the financial condition of operators and alternative
providers, including their access to financing, (iii) technology advancements, (iv) standardization efforts that impact the deployment of new technology, (v) new legislation and
regulations affecting the equipment sold by the segment, and (vi) general economic conditions.

During
2009, wireless operators' expenditures globally for 2G GSM and CDMA technology and related services declined compared to 2008. Similar expenditures for iDEN technology were also
down in 2009. Global expenditures for 3G technology and related services, such as W-CDMA/HPSA and CDMA2000/1xEV-DO technology, were up compared to 2008. The continued expansion
of broadband access networks also drove global growth in 2009 for next-generation technologies, such as WiMAX, and related services. Overall wireless infrastructure spending was down
slightly in 2009 compared to 2008. Forecasted industry trends point to a slight increase in operator expenditures globally in 2010, as growth in wireless data access demand drives networks expansion.











Our Strategy

The Home and Networks Mobility segment is focused on leadership in next-generation broadband solutions to accelerate the
delivery of personal media experiences. Key
elements in the segment's strategy include: (i) providing for seamless convergence of services and applications across delivery platforms within the home and across wireline and wireless
networks; (ii) innovating and optimizing our end-to-end network portfolio; and (iii) developing new services that leverage our platforms to provide revenue
generating applications and services to our operator customers while enabling consumers to experience media mobility. As part of our strategy, we have made and will continue to make strategic
acquisitions.

In
the home business, we are focused on accelerating the rate of digital penetration by broadband operators in North America through an enhanced suite of digital entertainment devices.
These products include basic models supporting the industry movement to all-digital delivery and advanced units supporting HD/DVR functions, as well as convergence of IP Media content in
the home. We continue to invest to differentiate our products and services in areas of software and applications, content on-demand and targeted advertising.

We
are capitalizing on telecom operators' decisions to offer IPTV to their subscribers globally, with products that support delivery of video content using both copper-outside-plant and
fiber-to-the-premises ("FTTP") networks. The segment continues to provide video infrastructure, FTTP access network equipment, advanced digital entertainment
devices and IP interactive set-tops to leading telecommunication companies around the world. During 2009, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire BitBand, a leading provider of content
management and delivery systems specializing in video-on-demand for IPTV. We are also an industry leader in broadband data and voice products. We are delivering DOCSIS 3.0 channel bonding on our cable
modem termination systems ("CMTS") and cable modems, and deploying our Gigabit PON platform and Very High Speed Digital Subscriber Line ("VDSL") gateways.

In
the networks business, the segment provides equipment and services to over 135 GSM, CDMA and iDEN networks globally. The segment is investing to be a leader in
next-generation wireless broadband technologies with its WiMAX and LTE systems. WiMAX and LTE are evolved wireless broadband technologies that enable operators to provide improved data
performance at lower operating cost. These technologies offer similar advantages for existing operators and emerging broadband service providers and vary in selection depending on the desired
application and available spectrum. In 2009, the segment delivered WiMAX network equipment to 39 WiMAX networks throughout the world. In addition, at the end of 2009, the segment was participating in
12 WiMAX trials globally, representing new business opportunities in 2010. As a leader in the baseline OFDM technology used for WiMAX, the segment is leveraging this expertise to accelerate our LTE
product offering, which will support both frequency division duplex ("FDD") and time division duplex ("TDD") modes. The LTE standard was ratified in December 2008, enabling operators and vendors to
accelerate testing and deployment. The segment is participating in the LTE system architecture evolution trial initiative.

Customers

In 2009, aggregate net sales to the segment's five largest customers, primarily large cable operators and telecommunication companies
located throughout the world, represented approximately 45% of the segment's net sales. The loss of any of the segment's large customers could have a material adverse effect on the segment's business.
Further, because many of the segment's contracts are long-term, the loss of a major customer could impact revenue and earnings over several quarters. The segment's proportion of sales
outside of North America was 51% in 2009, compared to 50% in 2008.

Competition

The businesses in which the segment operates are highly competitive. The rapid technological changes occurring in each of the markets
in which the segment competes are expected to lead to the entry of many new competitors. Competitive factors in the market for the segment's products and systems include: technology offered; product
and system performance; price; product features; quality; delivery and availability. We believe that we are competitively positioned because of our solid relationships with major communication system
operators worldwide, our technology leadership and our new product development capabilities. Price is a major area of competition and often impacts margins for initial system bids, particularly in
emerging markets. Time-to-market has also been an important competitive factor, especially for new systems and technologies.









In
our home business, we compete worldwide in the market for digital entertainment devices and cable and wireline infrastructure equipment for broadband networks. Our largest competitor
is Cisco. Based on 2009 annual sales, we are the leading provider of digital cable and IPTV set-tops worldwide. Our digital entertainment devices and infrastructure equipment compete with
products from a number of different companies, including: (i) those that develop and sell products that are distributed by direct broadcast satellite service providers through retail channels;
(ii) those that develop, manufacture and sell products of their own design; and (iii) those that license technology from us or other competitors.

Traditionally,
cable service providers leased set-tops to their customers with an integrated conditional access content security system. In 2007, FCC regulations requiring
the separation of security functionality from set-tops became effective. In meeting this requirement, we provide security modules to cable operators for use with both our own and
third-party set-tops, as well as in consumer products designed to accept them. The initial implementation limited consumer products to broadcast-delivered channels including premium
services. Several major cable operators are working to support full two-way security interface architecture that allows retail customers access to all programming available on the
operator's network without the need for a set-top box. A few television and video device manufacturers have begun shipping or are developing such devices. If they achieve a meaningful
volume of sales they could negatively impact our sales of set-tops to cable providers.

We
also compete worldwide in the market for broadband data and voice products. We believe that we are a leading provider of cable modems worldwide, competing with several consumer
electronic companies and original design manufacturers worldwide. Our largest competitors for cable and telco broadband data and voice devices include Technicolor (formerly Thomson), Huawei and Arris.

In
the wireless networks market, there is widespread competition from numerous competitors, ranging from some of the world's largest diversified companies to foreign telecommunications
equipment vendors to many small, specialized firms. Ericsson is the market leader, followed by the Nokia-Siemens joint venture, followed by
Alcatel-Lucent, Huawei and Motorola, along with other vendors with similar market share. We believe we are a leading provider of WiMAX technologies.

The
segment's networks business is confronting several factors that could impact its business, including, continuing consolidation among competitor telecommunications equipment
providers, consolidation among customers, the potential impact of global economic conditions, and vendor financing by competitors as customers continue to look to vendors as an additional source of
financing.

Payment Terms

Payment terms vary worldwide, depending on the arrangement. In North America, payment is generally due 30 to 60 days from the
invoice date. In regions outside of North America, terms vary widely but are typically limited to no more than 90 days. Contracts for wireless networks typically include implementation
milestones, such as delivery, installation and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on the completion of the milestone.

As
required for competitive reasons, extended payment terms are provided to customers from time-to-time on a limited basis. The segment's payment terms are
consistent with industry practice, as many of our contracts are awarded through a competitive bid process. When required for competitive reasons, we may provide long-term financing in
connection with equipment purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the purchase price.

Regulatory Matters

Many of our products are subject to regulation by the FCC in the United States and other communications regulatory agencies around the
world. In addition, our customers, and their networks into which our products are incorporated, are subject to government regulation. Government regulatory policies affecting either the willingness or
the ability of cable and telecom operators, wireless operators and wireline operators to offer certain services, or the terms on which these operators offer the services and conduct their business,
may have a material adverse effect on the segment's results. Motorola has developed products using trunking and data communications technologies to enhance spectral efficiencies. The growth and
results of the wireless communications industry may be affected by regulations impacting access to allocated spectrum for wireless communications users, especially in urban areas where the spectrum is
heavily used.









The
FCC continues to examine ways to promote commercial availability of retail video CPE devices that can deliver Multichannel Video Programming Distributor (MVPD) content to consumers.
While the FCC has not formally proposed any new regulatory mandates in this area, changes to the existing framework could impact our set-top box business.

The
U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing new wireless communications technologies to be developed and offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network
systems, such as WiFi, and wide area network systems, such as WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also deregulated portions of their available spectrum to allow deployment of these and other
technologies. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new opportunities for Motorola and our customers.

As
more fully described under "Enterprise Mobility Solutions—Regulatory Matters," as television transmission and reception technology transitions from analog to more
efficient digital modes, various countries around the world are examining, and in some cases already pursuing, the redevelopment of portions of the television spectrum. Certain segments of the
spectrum that have historically been utilized for analog television have now been designated to support new commercial communications systems and, therefore, are expected to generate new business
opportunities for Motorola in wireless and video technologies. In the U.S., the FCC conducted an auction of spectrum for the 700 MHz band reclaimed by the government in June 2009. License for
this spectrum may be used for flexible fixed, mobile and broadcast applications. Although the auction winners will determine the best utilization of the acquired spectrum, both LTE and WiMAX are
candidates for technology selection. In addition, a contiguous portion of this spectrum has generated interest for mobile TV applications.

Backlog

The segment's backlog was $2.1 billion at December 31, 2009, compared to $2.3 billion at December 31, 2008.
The 2009 order backlog is believed to be generally firm and 100% of that amount is expected to be recognized as revenue during 2010. The forward-looking estimate of the firmness of such orders is
subject to future events that may cause the amount recognized to change.

Intellectual Property Matters

Patent protection is extremely important to the segment's operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its
products, systems, technologies and manufacturing processes.

The
segment seeks to build upon our core enabling technologies, such as digital compression, encryption and conditional access systems, and wireless air-interface technology
in order to lead worldwide growth in the market for wired and wireless communications networks. Our policy is to protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and foreign
patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. We also rely on our proprietary knowledge and
ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position and will periodically seek to include our proprietary technologies in certain patent pools that support the
implementation of standards. We are a founder of MPEG LA, the patent licensing authority established to foster broad deployment of MPEG-2-compliant systems, and we have
recently joined the MPEG4-Visual patent pool as a licensor. In addition, we have licensed our digital conditional access technology, DigiCipher® II, to other equipment
suppliers and continue our joint ventures with Comcast for development and licensing of conditional access technology.

We
also enter into other license agreements, both as licensor and licensee, covering certain products and processes with various companies. These license agreements require the payment
of certain royalties that are not expected to be material to the segment's financial results. Royalty and licensing fees vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales
volumes of the products subject to licenses. The protection of these licenses is also important to the segment's operations. For additional information relating to patents, trademarks and research and
development activities with respect to this segment, see the discussion under "Other Information".

Inventory, Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality

The segment's practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory in order to meet customer delivery requirements in a manner
consistent with industry standards. At the end of 2009, the segment had lower inventory balances than at the end of 2008, primarily due to lower sales levels as well as manufacturing strategies to
reduce inventory levels.









Availability
of materials and components required by the segment is relatively dependable, however, fluctuations in supply and market demand could cause selective shortages and affect
results. We currently procure certain materials and components from single-source vendors. Any material disruption from a single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies and adversely
impact the segment's financial results.

Natural
gas, electricity, and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy required for our manufacturing operations. Each of these resources are currently in generally
adequate supply for the segment's operations. In addition, the cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices, which steadily increased during 2009 and impacted our
manufacturing and shipping costs. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to the segment's manufacturing facilities. However, difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned resources
or a significant cost increase could affect the segment's results.

Generally,
we do not permit customers to return products, other than under standard warranty provisions. The segment has not experienced seasonal buying patterns for its products.

Our Facilities/Manufacturing

The segment's headquarters are located in Horsham, Pennsylvania. Our other major facilities are located in: Arlington Heights,
Illinois; San Diego, California; Taipei, Taiwan; Bangalore, India; Beijing, Hangzhou and Tianjin, China; and Reynosa, Mexico.

A
portion of the segment's manufacturing is done by a small number of non-affiliated electronics manufacturing suppliers and original design manufacturers, primarily in Asia.
The segment relies on these third-party manufacturers in order to enhance its ability to lower costs and/or deliver products that meet consumer demands.

Enterprise Mobility Solutions Segment

The Enterprise Mobility Solutions segment ("Enterprise Mobility Solutions" or the "segment") designs, manufactures, sells, installs and
services analog and digital two-way radios, wireless LAN and security products, voice and data communications products and systems for private networks, wireless broadband systems and end-to-end
enterprise mobility solutions to a wide range of customers, including government and public safety agencies (which, together with all sales to distributors of two-way communication products, are
referred to as the "government and public safety market"), as well as retail, energy and utilities, transportation, manufacturing, healthcare and other commercial customers (which, collectively, are
referred to as the "commercial enterprise market"). In 2009, the segment's net sales represented 32% of the Company's consolidated net sales.

Principal Products and Services

We are the world's leading provider of advanced mission-critical and commercial enterprise mobility networks, services, applications
and devices. We offer an extensive portfolio of standard products and services that meet evolving public safety and security needs, including products based on both TETRA (terrestrial trunked radio)
and APCO 25 (Association for Public Safety Communications Officials) standards. The segment also provides products and systems for the advanced exchange of information at the point of business
activity. Our products include two-way radio systems and devices, mobile computing products, advanced data capture products including barcode scanners and imagers, radio frequency
identification ("RFID") infrastructure, software management, security tools and wireless infrastructure.

Our
products and services are sold stand-alone or as an integrated solution through Motorola's direct sales force and through independent and authorized distributors, dealers and
value-added resellers, independent software vendors, original equipment manufacturers and service operators. Distributors and value-added resellers may
provide a service or add components in order to resell our product to end users. Our segment provides systems engineering, installation and other technical and systems management services to meet our
customers' particular needs. The customer may also choose to install and maintain the equipment with its own employees, or may obtain installation, service and parts from a network of the segment's
authorized service centers or from other non-Motorola service centers.









Our Industry

We compete in the mobile segment of the communications industry, providing wireless products and services to government, public safety
and enterprise customers.

For
customers within our government and public safety market, interoperability and natural disaster preparedness continue to be important issues worldwide. Our extensive portfolio of
products includes integration services, equipment and support packages for both of the major standards-based private network technologies, APCO 25 and TETRA, as well as wireless broadband
applications. In 2010 and beyond, as new and better spectrum utilization evolves, we expect to see more demand and greater potential for broadband solutions and data applications, such as video
surveillance and other data-based products. While mission-critical communications and homeland security remain high priorities for our customers, we have seen reduced spending in a number
of industries within the government and public safety market, due to the difficult global economic conditions. We expect this spending reduction to continue in 2010.

We
believe that long-term growth opportunities exist within our commercial enterprise market as the global workforce continues to become more mobile and the industries and
markets that purchase our products continue to expand. Our product and service portfolios within the commercial enterprise market include: mobile computing products, enterprise wireless
infrastructure, bar code scanning, RFID products, and mobile network management platforms. Organizations looking to increase productivity and derive benefits from mobilizing their applications and
workforces are driving adoption in these markets.

Our Strategy

The segment's strategy is to maintain our global leadership positions in the markets we serve through the continued delivery of mobile
products, services and systems that meet our customers' demand for real-time information everywhere.

Our
strategy for our government and public safety market is to enable customers to focus on their missions, not the technology. This is accomplished by providing technology that is
"second nature", including: mission-critical systems, seamless connectivity through highly reliable voice and data networks, and a suite of advanced applications that provide real-time
information to end users. Key objectives in maintaining our leadership position include: (i) continuing investment in our analog radio portfolio while leading the ongoing migration to digital
products; (ii) leveraging our wireless broadband portfolio to drive growth and enter new markets; (iii) managing the potential public/private convergence of 700MHz public safety systems
in the U.S. and digital dividend spectrum worldwide; and (iv) continuing to lead the market in APCO 25 and TETRA standards-based voice and data networking systems around the world. We
continue to actively manage our portfolio, investing to expand into attractive, complementary markets, and divesting non-strategic businesses.

Our
strategy for customers in our commercial enterprise market is to deliver products and services that empower the mobile workforce and transform the enterprise by increasing
productivity, driving cost effectiveness, and promoting faster execution of critical business processes. Our solutions architecture focuses on three areas: (i) a portfolio of devices and
applications that provide real-time information at the point of business activity; (ii) enterprise wireless networks that deliver seamless connectivity inside and outside the four
walls of an enterprise; and (iii) a broad portfolio of management, security and mobility tools, products and applications that transform the enterprise by empowering users closest to the point
of business impact to make decisions.

Customers

Our sales model emphasizes both direct sales by our in-house sales force and indirect sales through our channel of
value-added resellers and distributors. We believe this dual sales approach allows us to meet customer needs effectively, build strong, lasting relationships and broaden our penetration across various
markets. Resellers and distributors each have their own sales organizations which complement and extend our sales organization. With deep expertise about specific customers' operations, resellers are
very effective in promoting sales of the Company's products. Our independent software vendor and value-added resale channels offer customized applications that meet specific needs in each market
segment we serve.

Our
largest customer is the U.S. Government (through its various branches and agencies, including the armed services), which represented approximately 8% of the segment's net sales in
2009. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on the segment's revenue and earnings over several quarters, because some of our contracts with the U.S. Government are
long-term. Net sales to customers in North America represented 58% of the segment's net sales in 2009.











A
majority of our sales are made directly by our in-house sales force, and the remainder of our sales are made through global resellers and distributors. While many
industries we serve have shown little to no growth, or may have even contracted, during 2009, there remains a large number of businesses and consumers globally who have yet to experience the benefits
of converged wireless communications, mobility and the Internet. As the worldwide economies, financial markets and business conditions improve, the Company will have new opportunities to extend our
brand, to market our products and services and to pursue profitable growth.

Competition

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Continued evolution in our industry and technological migration is opening up
the market to increased competition. Key competitive factors include: technology offered; price; availability of vendor financing; product and system performance; product features, quality,
availability and warranty; the quality and availability of service; company reputation; relationship with key customers; and time-to-market. We believe we are uniquely
positioned in the industry due to our strong customer relationships, our technological leadership and capabilities and our comprehensive range of offerings.

We
experience widespread competition from a growing number of new and existing competitors, including: large system integrators, manufacturers of mobile computing devices and
manufacturers of products in bar code reading equipment and wireless networks. The segment provides communications and information systems compliant with both APCO 25 and TETRA industry digital
standards. Major competitors include: Harris, EADS, Kenwood, EF Johnson, Intermec, Honeywell and Cisco.

Large
system integrators are seeking to move further into the federal government market. The Company and competitors in this segment may also serve as subcontractors to large system
integrators and are selected based on a number of competitive factors and customer requirements. Where favorable to the Company, we may partner with large system integrators to make available our
portfolio of advanced mission-critical services, applications and devices.

Several
other competitive factors may have an impact on our segment, including: the consolidation among telecommunications equipment providers; evolving developments in the 700 MHz band;
increasing encroachment by broadband and IP solution providers; and new low-tier entrants. Numerous companies, including present manufacturers of scanners, lasers, optical instruments,
microprocessors, wireless networks,
notebook computers, handheld devices and telephonic and other communication devices may have the technical potential to compete with our business. As demand for fully-integrated voice, data, and
broadband systems continues, the segment may face additional competition from public telecommunications carriers.

Payment Terms

Payment terms vary worldwide, depending on the arrangement. Generally, contract payment terms range from 30 to 45 days from the
invoice date within North America and are typically limited to 90 days in regions outside of North America. A portion of the contracts within our government and public safety market include
implementation milestones, such as delivery, installation and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on completion of the
milestone.

We
generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required for competitive reasons, we may provide long-term financing in connection with equipment purchases. Financing
may cover all or a portion of the purchase price.

Regulatory Matters

The use of wireless voice, data and video communications systems requires radio spectrum, which is regulated by governmental agencies
throughout the world. In the U.S., the FCC and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration ("NTIA") regulate spectrum use by non-federal entities and federal entities,
respectively. Similarly, countries around the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and implement the rules for use of the radio spectrum, pursuant to their respective national laws and
international coordination under the International Telecommunications Union ("ITU"). Consequently, the business and results of this segment could be affected by the rules and regulations adopted by
the FCC, NTIA or regulatory agencies in other countries from time to time. The availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities. Regulatory changes in current spectrum
bands may also provide opportunities or may require modifications to some of our products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed.









The
segment manufactures and markets products in spectrum bands already made available by regulatory bodies. These include voice and data infrastructure, mobile radios and portable or
handheld units. Our products operate both on licensed and unlicensed spectrum. In addition, new spectrum bands and modified regulations provide possible opportunities for new business.

In
addition to reallocating TV spectrum at 700 MHz for public safety and commercial use, in April 2009 the FCC initiated an inquiry on developing a national broadband plan. The FCC
indicated that this inquiry's focus is "to enable the build-out and utilization of high-speed broadband infrastructure." Over the remainder of 2009, the FCC released a series
of requests for input regarding various aspects of broadband across multiple markets including healthcare, education, public safety and consumers. The FCC is required to provide a report to Congress
on its findings during 2010. In addition, Congress passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) which includes federal funding for broadband deployment and Smart Grid deployment. These
initiatives to increase the availability of broadband and to support Smart Grid deployment may provide new business opportunities.

Internationally,
the ITU World Radio Conference held in Geneva in November 2007 identified spectrum that could be made available as part of a "digital dividend" as television transitions
from analog to digital technology globally. Countries around the world are studying the potential size, timing and use of this potentially available spectrum. During 2009, the European Commission
issued a mandate to the pan-European regulatory body CEPT asking for the best way to utilize the digital dividend spectrum, which in Europe is located at
790 - 862 MHz. The CEPT provided a preferred bandplan for this digital dividend spectrum. The European Commission is now preparing a spectrum decision expected to be
offered to the European Parliament for adoption. If adopted, the decision would be legally binding on the 27 member states of the European Union, providing a harmonized plan in that area and potential
opportunities for new commercial mobile broadband services and equipment sales going forward. A number of other countries around the world have also indicated their intention to pursue the
availability of digital dividend spectrum.

Some
of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those
governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Certain of our products are
subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products.

Backlog

The segment's backlog was $2.4 billion at both December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. The 2009 order backlog is
believed to be generally firm and approximately 75% of that amount is expected to be recognized as revenue during 2010. The forward-looking estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future
events that may cause the amount recognized to change.









Intellectual Property Matters

Patent protection is extremely important to the segment's operations. The segment has an extensive U.S. and international portfolio of
patents relating to its products, systems, technologies and manufacturing processes, including recent research developments in scanning, information collection, mission critical two-way
radio communication, network communications and network management. We have also filed additional patent applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as in foreign patent offices.

The
segment licenses some of its patents to third parties and this revenue is not significant. Motorola is also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing
fees vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to licenses.

We
actively participate in the development of open standards for interoperable, mission-critical digital two-way radio systems. We have published our technology and licensed
patents to signatories of the industry's two primary memorandums of understanding defined by the Telecommunications Industry Association ("TIA"), Project 25, European Telecommunications Standards
Institute ("ETSI"), and TETRA.

Notwithstanding
the expiration of certain patents and the resulting potential for increased competition for some of our products in the future, we believe that our extensive patent
portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage. Furthermore, we believe we are not dependent upon a single patent or a few patents. Our success depends more upon our proprietary
know-how, innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities. In addition, because of changing technology, our present intention is not to rely primarily on patents or other
intellectual property rights to protect or establish our market position. However, the segment continues to litigate against competitors to enforce its intellectual property rights in certain
technologies and is currently involved in several such lawsuits. For additional information relating to patents, trademarks and research and development activities with respect to this segment, see
the discussion under "Other Information".

Inventory, Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality

The segment's practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory to meet customers' delivery requirements in a manner consistent with
industry standards. The segment provides custom products which require the stocking of inventories and large varieties of piece parts and replacement parts in order to meet delivery and warranty
requirements. To the extent suppliers' product life cycles are shorter than the segment's, stocking of lifetime buy inventories is required to meet long-term warranty and contractual
requirements. In addition, replacement parts are stocked for delivery on customer demand within a short delivery cycle. At the end of 2009, the segment had a lower inventory balance than at the end of
2008, as the Company implemented several initiatives to efficiently utilize its on-hand inventory.

Availability
of materials and components required by the segment is relatively dependable, however, fluctuations in supply and market demand could cause selective shortages and affect
results. We currently procure certain materials and components from single-source vendors. A material disruption from a single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the ongoing global financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or
an increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact the segment's financial results.

Natural
gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy for our manufacturing operations. Each of these resources are currently in adequate supply for the
segment's operations. In addition, the cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices, which steadily increased during 2009 and impacted our manufacturing and
shipping costs. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to the segment's manufacturing facilities. However, difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned resources or a significant
cost increase could affect the segment's results.

Generally,
the segment's contracts do not include a right of return, other than for standard warranty provisions. For new product introductions, we may enter into milestone contracts
providing that the product could be returned if we do not achieve the milestones. Due to buying patterns in the markets we serve, sales tend to be somewhat higher in the fourth quarter.

Our Facilities/Manufacturing

The segment's primary offices are located in Schaumburg, Illinois and Holtsville, New York. Our other major facilities are located in:
Penang, Malaysia; Reynosa, Mexico; Krakow, Poland; Berlin, Germany; and Arad, Israel. A portion of the segment's manufacturing is done by a small number of non-affiliated electronics
manufacturing









suppliers
and distribution and logistics services providers. The segment relies on these third-party providers in order to enhance its ability to lower costs and deliver products that meet consumer
demands.

Other Information

Financial Information About Segments.The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by
reference Note 12, "Information by Segment and Geographic Region," of Part II,
Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this document.

Customers.Motorola has several large customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on the
Company. In 2009, aggregate net sales to the
Company's five largest customers represented approximately 29% of the Company's sales. During 2009, approximately 11% of net sales were to one customer, Verizon Communications Inc. (including Verizon
Wireless).

Approximately
2% of Motorola's net sales in 2009 were to various branches and agencies, including the armed services, of the U.S. Government. All contracts with the U.S. Government are
subject to cancellation at the convenience of the Government.

Government
contractors, including Motorola, are routinely subjected to numerous audits and investigations, which may be either civil or criminal in nature. The consequences of these
audits and investigations may include administrative action to suspend business dealings with the contractor and to exclude it from receiving new business. In addition, Motorola, like other
contractors, reviews aspects of its government contracting operations, and, where appropriate, takes corrective actions and makes voluntary disclosures to the U.S. Government. These audits and
investigations could adversely affect Motorola's ability to obtain new business from the U.S. Government.

Backlog.Motorola's aggregate backlog position for all Motorola segments, as of the end of the last two fiscal years was
approximately as follows:

December 31, 2009$4.9 billionDecember 31, 2008$5.0 billion

Except as previously discussed in this Item 1, the orders supporting the 2009 backlog amounts shown in the foregoing table are believed to be generally firm, and
approximately 90% of the backlog on hand at December 31, 2009 is expected to be recognized as revenue in 2010. The forward-looking estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future
events that may cause the amount recognized to change.

Research and Development.Motorola's business segments participate in very competitive industries with constant changes in
technology. Throughout its history, Motorola has relied, and
continues to rely, primarily on its research and development ("R&D") programs for the development of new products, and on its production engineering capabilities for the improvement of existing
products. Technical data and product application ideas are exchanged among Motorola's business segments on a regular basis. Management believes, looking forward, that Motorola's commitment to R&D
programs should allow each of its segments to remain competitive.

R&D
expenditures relating to new product development or product improvement were $3.2 billion in 2009, compared to $4.1 billion in 2008 and $4.4 billion in 2007. R&D
expenditures decreased 23% in 2009 as compared to 2008, after decreasing 7% in 2008 as compared to 2007. Motorola continues to believe that a strong commitment to research and development is required
to drive long-term growth. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 22,000 professional employees were engaged in such R&D activities.

Patents and Trademarks.Motorola seeks to obtain patents and trademarks to protect our proprietary position whenever possible
and practical. As of December 31, 2009, Motorola and
its wholly owned subsidiaries owned approximately 9,992 utility and design patents in the U.S. and 13,027 patents in foreign countries. These foreign patents are mostly counterparts of Motorola's U.S.
patents, but a number result from research conducted outside the U.S. and are originally filed in the country of origin. During 2009, Motorola, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries were
granted 587 U.S. utility and design patents. Many of the patents owned by Motorola are used in its operations or licensed for use by others, and Motorola is licensed to use certain patents owned by
others. Royalty and licensing fees vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to licenses.









Motorola
has a large portfolio of trademarks, owned in various countries around the world. These marks are valuable corporate assets. Motorola's increasing focus on marketing products
directly to consumers is reflected in an increasing emphasis on brand equity creation and protection.

Environmental Quality.During 2009, compliance with federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into
the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of
the environment, did not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of Motorola.

Employees.At December 31, 2009, there were approximately 53,000 employees of Motorola and its subsidiaries,
compared to 64,000 employees of Motorola
and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2008.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas.The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference
Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies" and Note 12, "Information by
Segment and Geographic Region" of Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this document, the "Results of Operations—2009 Compared to 2008" and
"Results of Operations—2008 Compared to 2007" sections of Part II, "Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and
"Item A: Risk Factors" of this document.

Available Information

We make available free of charge through our website,www.motorola.com/investor,our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished
to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC's website,www.sec.gov.Also available free
of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents:

•Motorola, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation•Motorola, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws•Motorola, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines•Motorola, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines•Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola, Inc. Board of Directors•Motorola Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola employees, including the principal executive
officers, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer)•Audit and Legal Committee Charter•Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter•Governance and Nominating Committee Charter

All
of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin
Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E-mail:investors@motorola.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Definitive Proxy
Statement may also be requested in hardcopy by clicking on "Printed Materials" atwww.motorola.com/investor. Our Internet website and the information
contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.









