Item 1: Business

General

We are a leading provider of mission-critical communication infrastructure, devices, software and services. Our communications-focused products and services help government and enterprise customers
improve their operations through increased effectiveness and efficiency of their mobile workforces. Our customers benefit from our global footprint and thought leadership. We are positioned for success with sales in more than 100 countries, an
industry leadership position, an unmatched portfolio of products and services and a strong patent portfolio.

We report
financial results for two operating segments:

Government:The Government segment includes sales of public safety
mission-critical communications systems, commercial two-way radio systems and devices, software and services.

Enterprise:The Enterprise segment includes sales of rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computers and tablets,
laser/imaging/RFID-based data capture products, wireless local area network (“WLAN”) and integrated digital enhanced network (“iDEN”) infrastructure, software and services.

Motorola Solutions is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation,
Motorola, Inc., organized in 1928. The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196.

Government segment

The Government segment
designs, manufactures, sells, and provides services around voice and data communications systems, devices, security products and applications. These products and services are sold to a wide range of customers, including government, public safety and
first responder agencies as well as commercial customers who operate private communications networks and manage a mobile workforce. In 2011, this segment’s net sales represented approximately 65% of our consolidated net sales.

Our Industry, Products, and Services

Our government, public safety and first responder customers demand mission-critical and interoperable communications to effectively serve and protect the public. Our commercial customers demand
business-critical communications to effectively run their business. Our customers are facing efficiency challenges which are driving technology transitions and equipment upgrades. Our sales growth is driven by helping our customers address their
communication needs.







We offer an extensive portfolio of network infrastructure, devices, applications and
services, based on APCO 25 (Association for Public Safety Communications Officials), TETRA (terrestrial trunked radio), and DMR (digital mobile radio) standards, as well as broadband technologies (Long-Term Evolution (“LTE”), and
WiFi). Our products and services are sold stand alone as well as part of an integrated system. In addition, we offer critical applications in the public safety command center, including voice, computer aided dispatch and multimedia/video. Our
comprehensive service offering in this segment includes mobility consulting, system design and installation, network and device management and product support.

Our Strategy

Our strategy in the Government segment is to partner with our
customers to enable them to deliver reliable services efficiently through innovative products and best-in-class services. Thought leadership and innovation are core to the effective partnership with our customers. We deliver innovation by: (i)
developing next-generation public safety solutions including devices, Public Safety LTE systems, and critical command center applications; (ii) leading the ongoing migration to digital products; (iii) managing the potential public/private
convergence of 700MHz public safety systems in the U.S. and digital dividend spectrum worldwide; (iv) continuing to be an industry leader in APCO 25 and TETRA standards-based voice and data communication systems around the world; and (v)
enhancing our services offering through network and application integration. We continue to actively manage our product and services portfolio, investing to expand into attractive and complementary segments to strengthen our customer relationships.

Our Customers

We address the communication needs of government agencies, state and local public safety and first responder agencies, and commercial and
industrial customers. Our largest customer is the U.S. Government (through its various branches and agencies, including the armed services), which represented approximately 11% of this segment’s net sales, and 7% of the Company’s net sales
in 2011. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings over several quarters, because some of our contracts with the U.S. Government are long-term. All contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to
cancellation at the convenience of the U.S. Government. Net sales to customers in North America represented 63% of this segment’s net sales in 2011.

We believe that there remain a large number of government and commercial customers globally who have yet to experience the benefits of converged wireless communications, mobility and/or effectiveness and
efficiencies realized through applications enabled by mobile broadband. In addition to serving our existing customers, we believe that we have opportunities to pursue profitable growth by extending our reach across new segments and geographies.

Our sales model includes both direct-sales by our in-house sales force, which tends to focus on our largest accounts, and
sales through our channel partner program. Our channel partners include distributors, value added resellers and independent software vendors. Resellers and distributors each have their own sales organizations that complement and extend the reach of
our sales force. With deep expertise about specific customers’ operations, resellers are very effective in promoting sales of our product portfolio. The independent software vendors in our channel partner program offer customized applications
that meet specific needs in each segment we serve. We believe this dual sales approach allows us to meet customer needs effectively, build strong, lasting relationships and broaden our penetration across segments and geographies.

Our Competition

The
markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Continued evolution in our industry and technology shifts are creating opportunities for established and new competitors. Key competitive factors include product performance; product features;
product quality, availability and warranty; price; availability of vendor financing; quality and availability of service; company reputation and financial strength, including investment grade rating; partner community; and relationship with key
customers. Our strong relationships with customers and partners, technology leadership, breadth of portfolio, product performance and support position us well for success.

We experience widespread competition from a growing number of existing and new competitors, including: large system integrators and manufacturers of private and public wireless network equipment and
devices. Major competitors include: Cassidian/EADS, Harris, Hytera, Kenwood, Sepura and Tait.







Large system integrators are seeking to move further into the state and local government
market segment. We and our competitors may serve as subcontractors to large system integrators and are selected based on a number of competitive factors and customer requirements. Where favorable, we may partner with large system integrators or
other third parties to make available our portfolio of advanced mission-critical network infrastructure, devices, applications and services.

Several other competitive factors may have an impact on our Government segment, including: the consolidation among telecommunications equipment providers; evolving developments in the 700 MHz band;
increasing encroachment by broadband and IP solution providers; and new low-tier vendors. As demand for fully integrated voice, data, and broadband systems continue, we may face additional competition from public telecommunications carriers and
telecommunications equipment providers.

Backlog

Our backlog position was approximately $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The 2011 order backlog is believed to be generally firm and only includes received product and system installation
labor orders from customers. Service orders such as maintenance and extended warranty contracts are excluded from backlog. Approximately 73% of that amount is expected to be recognized as revenue during 2012. The forward-looking estimate of the
firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may cause the amount recognized to change.

Enterprise segment

The Enterprise segment designs, manufactures, sells and provides services around WLAN infrastructure, rugged and enterprise-grade advanced data capture and mobile computing devices, security products and
applications. These are sold to a wide range of enterprise customers, including those in retail and hospitality, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, energy and utilities, education and healthcare. In 2011, this segment’s net sales
represented approximately 35% of our consolidated net sales.

Our Industry, Products and Services

Our enterprise customers are continuously looking to improve their operational efficiency as well as to increase their sales through
superior customer service. In 2011, we saw an increase in technology spend by our customers, driven primarily by retail and transportation and logistics customers. We believe that long-term growth opportunities exist within the Enterprise segment,
as the global workforce continues to become more mobile and enterprise customers continue to focus on improving their workforce efficiency and productivity. The segment also provides products and systems for the advanced exchange of information at
the point of business activity. Our sales growth is driven by helping our customers to mobilize their workforce and improve customer service.

We offer an extensive portfolio of devices, infrastructure, applications and services. These include rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computers and tablets, laser/imager/RFID based data capture devices
and kiosks, WLAN switches/controllers and access points, network and device management software, network and device security software, voice-based devices and software, and systems based iDEN technology. Our service offerings in this segment have
been primarily related to product support. However, we are expanding our services offerings to also include network integration and network and mobile device management, as well as mobility consulting.

Our Strategy

Our
strategy in the Enterprise segment is to deliver the next generation of enterprise mobility to empower the mobile worker, enable real-time asset visibility and engage the smart consumer. We have identified key areas of innovation to enable
successful implementation of this strategy. These include advanced devices, enhanced information capture and analysis, adaptive networking solutions, integrated voice and data communications, advanced applications and services. We are expanding our
devices portfolio to address the needs of an increasingly mobile workforce. Our products and services are designed to improve our customers’ operations through real-time asset visibility and integrated/adaptive communications networking
solutions. Our portfolio of infrastructure and device products is complemented by customized applications and services, which are designed to help our customers achieve their specific business objectives. We are seeking to further expand our
services offerings over the lifecycle of these products.







Our Customers

We address the communication and data capture needs of enterprise customers primarily in retail and hospitality, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, energy and utilities, education and
healthcare. These customers operate a large and diverse mobile workforce and are continuously focused on improving their operations through greater employee efficiency, greater asset visibility and superior customer service. Our product and services
portfolio delivers attractive return on technology investment for our customers. In addition to serving our existing customers, we believe that we have opportunities to pursue profitable growth by extending our reach across new segments and
geographies.

Our sales model includes both direct-sales by our in-house sales force and sales through our channel partner
program. Our channel partners include distributors, value added resellers and independent software vendors. Resellers and distributors each have their own sales organizations that complement and extend the reach of our sales force. With deep
expertise about specific customers’ operations, resellers are very effective in promoting sales of our product portfolio. The independent software vendors in our channel partner program offer customized applications, in addition to those that
we offer, that meet specific needs in each market we serve. Our Enterprise segment utilizes our channel partners extensively, as the products of this segment generally support a broad range of applications. We believe this dual sales approach allows
us to meet customer needs effectively, build strong, lasting relationships and broaden our penetration across segments and geographies.

Our Competition

The
segments in which we operate are highly competitive. Continued evolution in our industry and technology shifts are creating opportunities for established and new competitors. Key competitive factors include product performance; product features;
product quality, availability and warranty; price; availability of vendor financing; quality and availability of service; company reputation and financial strength; partner community; and relationship with key customers. Our strong relationships
with customers and partners, technology leadership, breadth of portfolio, product performance and support position us well to provide customized solutions for our customers that drive our success.

We experience widespread competition from a growing number of existing and new competitors, including present manufacturers of
laser/imager/RFID based data capture devices, optical instruments, notebook computers and tablets, smart phones, cordless phones, and cellular/WLAN/wired infrastructure equipment. Major competitors include: Apple, Aruba, Bluebird, Cisco, Datalogic,
Honeywell, Hewlett Packard, Intermec, Psion, Panasonic, and Samsung.

Backlog

Our backlog position at December 31, 2011, was approximately $480 million, compared to $570 million at December 31, 2010. Our order
backlog is believed to be generally firm and only includes received product and system installation labor orders from customers. Service orders such as maintenance and extended warranty contracts are excluded from backlog. Approximately 97% of that
amount is expected to be recognized as revenue during 2012. The forward-looking estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may cause the amount recognized to change.

Other Information

Financial Information About Segments

The response
to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 12, “Information by Segment and Geographic Region,” of Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this document.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 11, “Commitments and Contingencies” and Note 12, “Information by Segment and Geographic Region” of
Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this document, the “Results of Operations—2011 Compared to 2010” and “Results of







Operations—2010 Compared to 2009” sections of Part II, “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and
“Item 1A: Risk Factors” of this document.

Payment Terms

Payment terms vary worldwide, depending on the arrangement. Generally, contract payment terms range from 30 to 45 days from the
invoice date within North America and are typically limited to 90 days in regions outside of North America. A portion of the contracts with our government and public safety customers include implementation milestones, such as delivery,
installation and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on completion of the milestone.

We generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required for competitive reasons, we may provide long-term financing in connection with system purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the
purchase price.

Research and Development

We participate in very competitive industries with constant changes in technology. Throughout our history, we have relied, and continue to
rely, primarily on our research and development (“R&D”) programs for the development of new products, and on our production engineering capabilities for the improvement of existing products. Management believes, looking forward, that
our commitment to R&D programs are necessary to allow us to remain competitive.

R&D expenditures relating to new
product development or product improvement were $1.0 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009. We continue to believe that a strong commitment to R&D is required to drive long-term growth. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 7,000
professional employees were engaged in such R&D activities for us.

Regulatory Matters

The use of wireless voice, data and video communications systems requires radio spectrum, which is regulated by governmental agencies
throughout the world. In the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) regulate spectrum use by non-federal entities and federal entities,
respectively. Similarly, countries around the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and implement the rules for use of the radio spectrum, pursuant to their respective national laws and international coordination under the
International Telecommunications Union (“ITU”). Consequently, our results could be positively or negatively affected by the rules and regulations adopted by the FCC, NTIA or regulatory agencies in other countries from time to time. The
availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities and the loss of available radio spectrum may result in the loss of business opportunities.

We manufacture and market products in spectrum bands already made available by regulatory bodies. These include voice and data infrastructure, mobile radios and portable or handheld devices. Our products
operate both on licensed and unlicensed spectrum.

As television transmission and reception technology transitions from analog
to more efficient digital modes, various countries around the world are examining, and in some cases already pursuing, the redevelopment of portions of the television spectrum. In the U.S., pursuant to federal legislation, analog television stations
ceased operation in the broadcast television spectrum on June 12, 2009. As a result of this transition, 108 MHz of spectrum historically used for broadcast television, now known as the 700MHz band, is being redeveloped and deployed for new uses
(the so-called “digital dividend” spectrum), including broadband and narrowband wireless communications. Now that the 700 MHz band spectrum is open nationwide, FCC records indicate that so far over 135 public safety agencies throughout
over 25 states have been deploying narrowband operations at 700 MHz and others are in the planning stages. Under rules adopted by the FCC, 24 MHz of the 700 MHz band already allocated by the FCC will support new public safety narrowband and
broadband communications systems. The public safety community is also seeking legislation from Congress to obtain an additional 10 MHz of dedicated spectrum in the 700 MHz band (“D-block”). If successful, the legislation would double the
broadband 700 MHz band spectrum dedicated for public safety.







The FCC is also making provisions for a 700 MHz band nationwide public safety broadband
network that may be built over the next 10-15 years. In May 2010, the FCC issued 21 conditional waiver grants to public safety agencies around the country to deploy 700 MHz broadband systems. Thirty-three additional waiver petitions are pending
FCC decisions as of December 2011. Several of the broadband waiver grantees also benefit from federal Broadband Technology Opportunity Policy (“BTOP”) Grant Funds issued by the NTIA during 2010. In 2010, we were awarded a $50.6 million
BTOP grant to deploy a broadband system in the greater San Francisco Bay area. We are also working with a number of customers in other areas who received FCC conditional waivers to use the 700 MHz broadband spectrum. For example, during 2011, we
received an award to implement a 700 MHz (LTE) broadband system for the Mississippi Wireless Communication Commission. Public safety organizations and the FCC have endorsed the use of LTE technology, a technology in which we are investing, for this
broadband network.

In November 2010, Canada also released a consultation requesting input on making broadband spectrum
available for public safety use in the 700 MHz band. All full power TV broadcasters in Canada vacated the 700 MHz band by August 31, 2011. During 2011, the Radio Advisory Board of Canada (RABC), an influential industry association, recommended that
Canadian decision-makers harmonize the band with that in the U.S. Further decisions regarding broadband use in Canada are expected to be released during 2012.

Internationally, the ITU World Radio Conference (“WRC”) is being held in Geneva during the first quarter of 2012. During this session, leaders from United Nation member countries will consider a
number of initiatives, including whether to allocate additional spectrum for commercial broadband use as well as whether to allocate spectrum dedicated for public safety broadband. If the WRC agrees to consider spectrum for public safety
broadband, studies would follow that would assess whether and how much spectrum is needed and recommendations for where in the spectrum range the spectrum should be allocated (taking into account regional and global harmonization to the extent
practicable). The result could be future allocations for dedicated broadband spectrum for public safety which will provide opportunities for us in the future. In addition, certain countries already have spectrum landscapes that would permit
country administrations to allocate public safety spectrum today. A WRC initiative can spur individual countries to act sooner, which may also create opportunities for our broadband solutions in the nearer term.

Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and
worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Certain of our products are subject
to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products.

Intellectual Property Matters

Patent protection is extremely important to our operations. We have an extensive U.S. and international portfolio of patents relating to our products, systems, technologies and manufacturing processes,
including research developments in scanning, information collection, mission-critical two-way radio communication, network communications and network management. We have also filed additional patent applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, as well as in foreign patent offices.

We license some of our patents to third parties, but this revenue is not
significant. We are also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. In particular, Motorola Solutions has a royalty free license under all of the patents and patent applications assigned to Motorola Mobility at the time of the separation of
the two businesses. Royalty and licensing costs vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of our products subject to licenses.

We actively participate in the development of open standards for interoperable, mission-critical digital two-way radio systems. We have published our technology and licensed patents to signatories of the
industry’s two primary memorandums of understanding defined by the Telecommunications Industry Association (“TIA”), Project 25, European Telecommunications Standards Institute (“ETSI”), and TETRA.

Notwithstanding the transfer of patents to Motorola Mobility, the expiration of certain patents and the resulting potential for increased
competition for some of our products in the future, we believe that our remaining







patent portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas. Furthermore, we believe we are not dependent upon a single patent or a few patents. Our
success depends more upon our proprietary know-how, innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities. In addition, because of changing technology, our present intention is not to rely primarily on patents or other intellectual
property rights to protect or establish our market position. However, we plan to continue to litigate against competitors to enforce our intellectual property rights in certain technologies when attempts to negotiate mutually agreeable licenses are
not successful.

Patents and Trademarks

As of December 31, 2011, we owned approximately 6,013 patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries. As of December 31, 2011, we and our wholly owned subsidiaries had
approximately 2,700 U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. These foreign patents and patent applications are mostly counterparts of our U.S. patents. During 2011, we and our wholly owned subsidiaries were granted 237 U.S. patents
and 314 patents in other countries.

Inventory, Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality

Our practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory to meet customers’ delivery requirements in a manner consistent with
industry standards. We provide custom products which require the stocking of inventories and large varieties of piece parts and replacement parts in order to meet delivery and warranty requirements. To the extent our suppliers’ product life
cycles are shorter than ours, stocking of lifetime-buy inventories is required to meet long-term warranty and contractual requirements. In addition, replacement parts are stocked for delivery on customer demand within a short delivery cycle. At
December 31, 2011, our inventory balance decreased slightly compared to December 31, 2010.

Availability of materials
and components required by the Company is generally dependable; however, fluctuations in supply and market demand have caused and could cause selective shortages and affect results. We currently procure certain materials and components from
single-source vendors. A material disruption from a single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. If certain single-source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a
reduction or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact our financial results.

Natural gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy for our manufacturing operations. Each of these
resources is currently in adequate supply for our operations. In addition, the cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to our manufacturing facilities.
Difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned resources or a significant cost increase could affect our financial results.

Generally, our customer contracts do not include a right of return, other than for standard warranty provisions; however, certain
distributor partners within the commercial enterprise markets do maintain limited stock rotation rights. Due to buying patterns in the markets we serve, sales tend to be somewhat higher in the fourth quarter.

Environmental Quality

During 2011, compliance with federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, did not have a material
effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the Company.

Employees

At December 31, 2011, we and our subsidiaries had approximately 23,000 employees, compared to 51,000 employees at December 31, 2010. Approximately 19,000 employees transferred as
part of the distribution of Motorola Mobility on January 4, 2011, and approximately 7,000 employees transferred with the sale of certain assets and liabilities of the Networks business to NSN.

Available Information

We make available free of charge through our website,www.motorolasolutions.com/investor, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, proxy statements, other







reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website,www.sec.gov.Also available free of charge on our website are the
following corporate governance documents:



•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation



•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws



•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines



•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines



•Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board of Directors



•Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola Solutions employees, including the principal executive officers, the
principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer)



•Audit and Legal Committee Charter



•Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter



•Governance and Nominating Committee Charter

All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road,
Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E-mail:investors@motorolasolutions.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Definitive Proxy Statement may also be requested in hardcopy by clicking on “Printed Materials” atwww.investor.motorolasolutions.com. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







