Item 1.BUSINESS



OVERVIEW



DISH Network Corporation is the nation’s third largest pay-TV provider, with approximately 13.967 million customers across the United States as of December 31, 2011 (the “DISH” pay-TV service).  We were organized in 1995 as a corporation under the laws of the State of Nevada and started offering the DISH pay-TV service in March 1996.



Our common stock is publicly traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “DISH.”  Our principal executive offices are located at 9601 South Meridian Boulevard, Englewood, Colorado 80112 and our telephone number is (303) 723-1000.



On April 26, 2011, we completed the acquisition of most of the assets of Blockbuster, Inc. (the “Blockbuster Acquisition”).  We acquired Blockbuster operations in the United States and in certain foreign countries.  Blockbuster primarily offers movies and video games for sale and rental through multiple distribution channels such as retail stores, by-mail, digital devices, the blockbuster.com website and the BLOCKBUSTER On Demand service.



During the first half of 2011, we entered into a transaction to acquire 100% of the equity of reorganized DBSD North America Inc. (“DBSD North America”) for approximately $1.4 billion upon DBSD North America’s emergence from bankruptcy.  In addition, in June 2011, we entered into a transaction to acquire substantially all of the assets of TerreStar Networks, Inc. (“TerreStar”) for a purchase price of $1.375 billion (the “TerreStar Transaction”).  These acquisitions are subject to certain conditions, including approval by the FCC.  Additionally, during the fourth quarter 2011, we and Sprint Nextel Corporation (“Sprint”) entered into a mutual release and settlement agreement (“Sprint Settlement Agreement”) pursuant to which all disputed issues relating to our acquisition of DBSD North America and the TerreStar Transaction were resolved between us and Sprint, including, but not limited to, issues relating to costs allegedly incurred by Sprint to relocate users from the spectrum now licensed to DBSD North America and TerreStar.  Pursuant to the Sprint Settlement Agreement, we made a net payment of approximately $114 million to Sprint.  For more information, see “New Business Opportunities — Spectrum Investments” of this annual report on Form 10-K.



Business Strategy



Our business strategy is to be the best provider of video services in the United States by providing high-quality products, outstanding customer service, and great value.  We promote DISH®programming packages as providing our subscribers with a better “price-to-value” relationship than those available from other subscription television providers.  We believe that there continues to be unsatisfied demand for high-quality, reasonably priced television programming services.



·High-Quality Products.We offer a wide selection of local and national programming, featuring more national and local HD channels than most pay-TV providers.  We have been a technology leader in our industry, introducing award-winning DVRs, dual tuner receivers, 1080p video on demand, and external hard drives.  To maintain and enhance our competitiveness over the long term, we recently introduced a new whole-home HD DVR receiver (the Hopper™) that allows, among other things, recorded programming to be viewed in HD in multiple rooms.  We are also promoting a suite of integrated products designed to maximize the convenience and ease of watching TV anytime and anywhere, which we refer to as TV Everywhere™which utilizes, among other things, online access and Slingbox “placeshifting” technology.



·Outstanding Customer Service.We strive to provide outstanding customer service by improving the quality of the initial installation of subscriber equipment, improving the reliability of our equipment, better educating our customers about our products and services, and resolving customer problems promptly and effectively when they arise.











·Great Value.We have historically been viewed as the low-cost provider in the pay-TV industry in the U.S. because we seek to offer the lowest everyday prices available to consumers after introductory promotions expire.



Programming.We provide programming that includes more than: (i) 230 basic video channels, (ii) 60 Sirius Satellite Radio music channels, (iii) 30 premium movie channels, (iv) 35 regional and specialty sports channels, (v) 3,200 standard definition and high definition local channels, (vi) 275 Latino and international channels, and (vii) 70 channels of pay-per-view content.  Although we distribute over 3,200 local channels, a subscriber typically may only receive the local channels available in the subscriber’s home market.  As of December 31, 2011, we provided local channels in standard definition in all 210 TV markets in the U.S. and local channels in HD in more than 170 markets in the U.S., serving approximately 97% of TV households.



Receiver Systems.Our subscribers receive programming via equipment that includes a small satellite dish, digital set-top receivers, and remote controls.  Some of our advanced receiver models feature DVRs, HD capability, multiple tuners (which allow independent viewing on separate televisions) and Internet-protocol compatibility (which allows consumers to view movies and other content on their televisions via the Internet and a broadband connection).  We rely on EchoStar to design and manufacture all of our new receivers and certain related components.  See “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”



DISHOnline.com.DISHOnline.com gives DISH subscribers the ability to watch television programs, movies, and clips online at no additional charge with their paid subscription to qualifying programmingand compatible equipment.  DISHOnline.com offers more than 270,000 movies, television shows, clips and trailers.



Blockbuster@Home.Blockbuster@Home gives DISH subscribers access to more than 100,000 DVD movies, TV shows and games by mail with unlimited in-store exchanges, streaming access to more than 10,000 movies and TV shows via their TV and online access to more than 25,000 movies and TV shows via their computer.



DISH Remote Access.DISH’s free remote access (“DISH Remote Access”) gives subscribers the ability to remotely control certain features of their DVRs using compatible devices such as smartphones, tablets, laptops and home computers.



Content Delivery



Digital Broadcast Operations Centers.The principal digital broadcast operations facilities we use are EchoStar’s facilities located in Cheyenne, Wyoming and Gilbert, Arizona.  We also use four regional digital broadcast operations facilities and four micro digital broadcast operations facilities owned and operated by EchoStar that allow us to maximize the use of the spot beam capabilities of certain owned and leased satellites.  Programming content is delivered to these facilities by fiber or satellite and processed, compressed, encrypted and then uplinked to satellites for delivery to consumers.  EchoStar provides certain broadcast services to us, including teleport services such as transmission and downlinking, channel origination services, and channel management services pursuant to a broadcast agreement for a period ending on December 31, 2016.  See Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our Related Party Transactions with EchoStar.











Satellites.Our DISH programming is currently delivered to customers using satellites that operate in the “Ku” band portion of the microwave radio spectrum.  The Ku-band is divided into two spectrum segments.  The portion of the Ku-band that allows the use of higher power satellites – 12.2 to 12.7 GHz over the United States – is known as the Broadcast Satellite Service band, which is also referred to as the Direct Broadcast Satellite (“DBS”) band.  The portion of the Ku-band that utilizes lower power satellites – 11.7 to 12.2 GHz over the United States – is known as the Fixed Satellite Service (“FSS”) band.



Most of our programming is currently delivered using DBS satellites.  To accommodate more bandwidth-intensive HD programming and other needs, we continue to explore opportunities to expand our satellite capacity through the acquisition of new spectrum, the launching of more technologically advanced satellites, and the more efficient use of existing spectrum via, among other things, better modulation and compression technologies.



We own or lease capacity on 13 satellites in geostationary orbit approximately 22,300 miles above the equator.  For further information concerning these satellites and satellite anomalies, please see the table and discussion under“Satellites”below.



Conditional Access System.Our conditional access system secures our programming content using encryption so that only authorized customers can access our programming.  We use microchips embedded in credit card-sized access cards, called “smart cards,” or security chips in our receiver systems to control access to authorized programming content (“Security Access Devices”).



Our signal encryption has been compromised in the past and may be compromised in the future even though we continue to respond with significant investment in security measures, such as Security Access Device replacement programs and updates in security software, that are intended to make signal theft more difficult.  It has been our prior experience that security measures may only be effective for short periods of time or not at all and that we remain susceptible to additional signal theft.  During 2009, we completed the replacement of our Security Access Devices and re-secured our system.  We expect additional future replacements of these devices will be necessary to keep our system secure.  We cannot ensure that we will be successful in reducing or controlling theft of our programming content and we may incur additional costs in the future if our system’s security is compromised.



Distribution Channels



While we offer receiver systems and programming through direct sales channels, a majority of our new subscriber activations are generated through independent third parties such as small satellite retailers, direct marketing groups, local and regional consumer electronics stores, nationwide retailers, and telecommunications companies.  In general, we pay these independent third parties a mix of upfront and monthly incentives to solicit orders for our services.  In addition, we partner with certain telecommunications companies to bundle DISH programming with broadband and voice services on a single bill.



Competition



As of December 31, 2011, our 13.967 million subscribers represent approximately 14% of pay-TV subscribers in the United States.  We face substantial competition from established pay-TV providers and increasing competition from companies providing/facilitating the delivery of video content via the Internet to computers, televisions, and mobile devices.  As of September 30, 2011, more than 99 million households subscribe to a pay-TV service.



·Other Direct Broadcast Satellite Operators.We compete directly with the DirecTV Group, Inc., or DirecTV, the largest satellite TV provider in the U.S. which had 19.8 million subscribers as of September 30, 2011, representing approximately 20% of pay-TV subscribers.



·Cable Television Companies.We encounter substantial competition in the pay-TV industry from numerous cable television companies that operate via franchise licenses across the U.S.  According to the National Cable & Telecommunications Association, 98% of U.S. housing units are passed by cable.  As of September 30, 2011, cable television companies have more than 58.3 million subscribers, representing approximately 58% of pay-TV subscribers.  Cable companies are typically able to bundle their video











services with broadband Internet access and voice services and many have significant investments in companies that provide programming content.



·Telecommunications Companies.  Large telecommunications companies have upgraded older copper wire lines with fiber optic lines in certain markets.  These fiber optic lines provide high capacity bandwidth, enabling telecommunications companies to offer video content that can be bundled with their broadband Internet access and voice services.  In particular, AT&T and Verizon have built fiber-optic based networks to provide video services in substantial portions of their service areas.  As of September 30, 2011, AT&T and Verizon had approximately 3.6 million U-verse and 4.0 million FiOS TV subscribers, respectively.  These telecommunications companies represent approximately 8% of pay-TV subscribers.



·Internet Delivered Video.We face competition from content providers who distribute video directly to consumers over the Internet.  Programming offered over the Internet has become more prevalent as the speed and quality of broadband networks have improved.  Significant changes in consumer behavior with regard to the means by which they obtain video entertainment and information in response to this emerging digital media competition could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or otherwise disrupt our business.



·Wireless Mobile Video.We also expect to face increasing competition from wireless telecommunications providers who offer mobile video offerings.  We expect mobile video offerings will likely become more prevalent in the marketplace as wireless telecommunications providers implement and expand the fourth generation of wireless communications.



Acquisition of New Subscribers



We incur significant upfront costs to acquire subscribers, including advertising, retailer incentives, equipment subsidies and installation.  In addition, customer promotions to acquire new subscribers result in less revenue to us over the promotional period.  While we attempt to recoup these upfront costs over the lives of their subscriptions, there can be no assurance that we will.  We employ business rules such as credit requirements and contractual commitments, and we strive to provide outstanding customer service, to increase the likelihood of customers keeping their DISH service over longer periods of time.  Our subscriber acquisition costs may vary significantly from period to period.



Advertising.We use print, radio, television and Internet media, on a local and national basis to motivate potential subscribers to call DISH, visit our website or contact independent third party retailers.



Retailer Incentives.We pay retailers an upfront incentive for each new subscriber they bring to DISH that results in the activation of qualified programming and generally pay retailers small monthly incentives for up to 60 months; provided, among other things, the customer continuously subscribes to qualified programming.



Equipment.We incur significant upfront costs to provide our new subscribers with in-home equipment, including advanced HD and DVR receivers, which most of our new subscribers lease from us.  While we seek to recoup these upfront equipment costs mostly through monthly fees, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving that objective.  In addition, upon deactivation of a subscriber we may refurbish and redeploy their equipment which lowers future upfront costs.  However, our ability to capitalize on these cost savings may be limited as technological advances and consumer demand for new features may render the returned equipment obsolete.



Installation.We incur significant upfront costs to install satellite dishes and receivers in the homes of our new customers.



New Customer Promotions.We often offer programming at no additional charge and/or promotional pricing during introductory periods for new subscribers.  While such promotional activities have an economic cost and reduce our subscriber-related revenue, they are not included in our definitions of subscriber acquisition costs or the SAC metric.











Customer Retention



We incur significant costs to retain our existing customers, mostly by upgrading their equipment to HD and DVR receivers.  As with our subscriber acquisition costs, our retention upgrade spending includes the cost of equipment and installation.  In certain circumstances, we also offer programming at no additional charge and/or promotional pricing for limited periods for existing customers in exchange for a contractual commitment.  A component of our retention efforts includes the installation of equipment for customers who move.  Our subscriber retention costs may vary significantly from period to period.



Customer Service



Customer Service Centers.We use both internally-operated and outsourced customer service centers to handle calls from prospective and existing customers.  We strive to answer customer calls promptly and to resolve issues effectively on the first call.  We intend to better use the Internet and other applications to provide our customers with more self-service capabilities over time.



Installation and Other In-Home Service Operations.High-quality installations, upgrades, and in-home repairs are critical to providing good customer service.  Such in-home service is performed by both DISH employees and a network of independent contractors and includes, among other things, priority technical support, replacement equipment, cabling and power surge repairs for a monthly fee.



Subscriber Management.We presently use, and depend on, CSG Systems International, Inc.’s (“CSG”) software system for the majority of DISH subscriber billing and related functions.  During 2011, we implemented new interactive voice response and in-home appointment scheduling systems.  Also during 2011, we began developing and testing a new CSG billing system as well as new sales and customer care systems that are likely to be implemented in 2012.



New Business Opportunities



From time to time we evaluate opportunities for strategic investments or acquisitions that may complement our current services and products, enhance our technical capabilities, improve or sustain our competitive position, or otherwise offer growth opportunities.  We may make investments in or partner with others to expand our business into mobile and portable video, data and voice services.



We are currently promoting a suite of integrated products designed to maximize the convenience and ease of watching TV anytime and anywhere, which we refer to as TV Everywhere which utilizes, among other things, online access and Slingbox “placeshifting” technology.  There can be no assurance that these integrated products will positively affect our results of operations or our gross new subscriber activations.



Blockbuster



On April 26, 2011, we completed the Blockbuster Acquisition.  We acquired Blockbuster operations in the United States and in certain foreign countries.  Blockbuster primarily offers movies and video games for sale and rental through multiple distribution channels such as retail stores, by-mail, digital devices, the blockbuster.com website and the BLOCKBUSTER On Demand service.  The Blockbuster Acquisition complements our core business of delivering high-quality video entertainment to consumers.  We are promoting our new Blockbuster offerings including Blockbuster@Home which provides movies, games and TV shows through Internet streaming, mail and in-store exchanges and online.  This offering is only available to DISH subscribers.



Spectrum Investments



In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009.  Part or all of these licenses may be terminated if the associated FCC build-out requirements are not satisfied.



During the first half of 2011, we entered into a transaction to acquire 100% of the equity of reorganized DBSD North America for approximately $1.4 billion upon DBSD North America’s emergence from bankruptcy, which











included capital stock and convertible securities of, and certain claims related to, DBSD North America.  In addition, in June 2011, we entered into the TerreStar Transaction for a purchase price of $1.375 billion. We have paid all but $30 million of the purchase price for the TerreStar Transaction, which will be paid upon closing of the TerreStar Transaction, or upon certain other conditions being met under the asset purchase agreement.  Additionally, during the fourth quarter 2011, we and Sprint entered into the Sprint Settlement Agreement pursuant to which all disputed issues relating to our acquisition of DBSD North America and the TerreStar Transaction were resolved between us and Sprint, including, but not limited to, issues relating to costs allegedly incurred by Sprint to relocate users from the spectrum now licensed to DBSD North America and TerreStar.  Pursuant to the Sprint Settlement Agreement, we made a net payment of approximately $114 million to Sprint.  Our ultimate acquisition of 100% of the equity of reorganized DBSD North America and consummation of the TerreStar Transaction are subject to certain conditions, including approval by the FCC.



Under our agreements to acquire DBSD North America and purchase TerreStar’s assets, we paid substantially all of the purchase price for both transactions prior to the receipt of certain regulatory approvals (the FCC with respect to DBSD North America, and the FCC and the Canadian federal Department of Industry (“Industry Canada”) with respect to TerreStar).  On February 7, 2012, Industry Canada approved the transfer of the Canadian spectrum licenses held by TerreStar to us.  If the remaining required approvals are not obtained, subject to certain exceptions, we have the right to require and direct the sale of some or all of the assets of the relevant company to a third party and we would be entitled to the proceeds from such a sale.  These proceeds could, however, be substantially less than amounts we have paid in the respective transactions.



In addition, our consolidated FCC applications for approval of the license transfers from DBSD North America and TerreStar were accompanied by requests for waiver of the integrated service requirement, the spare satellite requirement and various technical provisions.  Waiver of the integrated service requirement would allow DISH to offer single-mode terrestrial terminals to customers who do not desire satellite functionality.  The spectrum licenses currently held by DBSD North America and TerreStar do not include a waiver of this integrated service requirement.  Our integrated service requirement waiver request has been opposed by certain parties, and there can be no assurance that the FCC will approve it.  If our FCC applications and waiver requests are not granted by the FCC, or are granted in a manner that varies from the form we have requested, it could cause the value of these assets to be impaired, potentially requiring us to take significant write-downs on these assets.  We assess potential impairments to these assets annually, or more often if indicators of impairment arise, to determine whether an impairment condition may exist.  We use a probability weighted analysis considering estimated future cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved and market based data to assess potential impairments.



To the extent we receive these approvals and waivers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on these spectrum investments or that we will be able to profitably deploy the assets represented by these spectrum investments.  We will likely be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others to commercialize these licenses.  Because we have not received approval from the FCC, we do not yet know the full costs (including any build-out requirements) associated with complying with regulations applicable to our acquisition of DBSD North America or the TerreStar Transaction.  Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization and build-out, any such investment or partnership could vary significantly, which may affect the carrying value of our investments and our future financial condition or results of operations.



Transactions with EchoStar



On January 1, 2008, we completed the distribution of our technology and set-top box business and certain infrastructure assets (the “Spin-off”) into a separate publicly-traded company, EchoStar.  DISH Network and EchoStar operate as separate publicly-traded companies, and neither entity has any ownership interest in the other.  However, a substantial majority of the voting power of the shares of both DISH Network and EchoStar is owned beneficially by Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, or by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family.











SATELLITES



Most of our programming is currently delivered using DBS satellites.  We continue to explore opportunities to expand our available satellite capacity through the use of other available spectrum.  Increasing our available spectrum is particularly important as more bandwidth intensive HD programming is produced and to address new video and data applications consumers may desire in the future.  We currently utilize satellites in geostationary orbit approximately 22,300 miles above the equator detailed in the table below.



OriginalDegreeUsefulLaunchOrbitalLifeLease TermSatellitesDateLocation(Years)(Years)Owned:EchoStar I (1)December 19957712EchoStar VIIFebruary 200211912EchoStar XFebruary 200611012EchoStar XIJuly 200811012EchoStar XIVMarch 201011915EchoStar XVJuly 201061.515Leased from EchoStar:EchoStar VI (1)July 20007712EchoStar VIII (1)(2)August 20027712EchoStar IX (1)(2)(3)August 200312112EchoStar XII (1)July 200361.510Nimiq 5 (1)(2)September 200972.71010Leased from Other Third Party:Anik F3April 2007118.71515Ciel IIDecember 20081291010Under Construction:Leased from EchoStar:EchoStar XVI201261.51010





(1)See Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our Related Party Transactions with EchoStar.

(2)We lease a portion of the capacity on these satellites.

(3)Leased on a month to month basis.



Recent Developments



Recent developments with respect to certain of our satellites are discussed below.



QuetzSat-1.During 2008, we entered into a transponder service agreement with EchoStar expiring in November 2021, which will be accounted for as an operating lease.  We will lease 24 DBS transponders on QuetzSat-1 when the satellite is placed into commercial operation at the 77 degree orbital location.  QuetzSat-1 was launched on September 29, 2011 and was placed into service during the fourth quarter 2011 at the 67.1 degree orbital location while we and EchoStar explore alternative uses for the QuetzSat-1 satellite.  In the interim, EchoStar is providing us with alternate capacity at the 77 degree orbital location.  See Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.











Satellites Under Construction



We have agreed to lease capacity on one satellite from EchoStar that is currently under construction.



·EchoStar XVI.  During December 2009, we entered into a ten-year transponder service agreement with EchoStar to lease all of the capacity on EchoStar XVI, a DBS satellite.  EchoStar XVI will replace the satellites currently at the 61.5 degree orbital location and will allow us to offer other value-added services.  We will lease certain satellite capacity from EchoStar onEchoStar XVI after its service commencement date and this lease generally terminates upon the earlier of:  (i) the end of life or replacement of the satellite; (ii) the date the satellite fails; (iii) the date the transponder(s) on which service is being provided under the agreement fails; or (iv) ten years following the actual service commencement date.  Upon expiration of the initial term, we have the option to renew on a year-to-year basis through the end of life of the satellite.  There can be no assurance that any options to renew this agreement will be exercised.  EchoStar XVI is expected to be launched during the second half of 2012.



Satellite Anomalies



Operation of our pay-TV service requires that we have adequate satellite transmission capacity for the programming we offer.  Moreover, current competitive conditions require that we continue to expand our offering of new programming, particularly by expanding local HD coverage and offering more HD national channels.  While we generally have had in-orbit satellite capacity sufficient to transmit our existing channels and some backup capacity to recover the transmission of certain critical programming, our backup capacity is limited.



In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may need to acquire or lease additional satellite capacity or relocate one of our other satellites and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite.  Such a failure could result in a prolonged loss of critical programming or a significant delay in our plans to expand programming as necessary to remain competitive and thus may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Prior to 2011, certain satellites in our fleet experienced anomalies, some of which have had a significant adverse impact on their remaining useful life and/or commercial operation.  There can be no assurance that future anomalies will not further impact the remaining useful life and/or commercial operation of any of these satellites.  See “Long-Lived Satellite Assets” below for further discussion of evaluation of impairment and Note 7 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  There can be no assurance that we can recover critical transmission capacity in the event one or more of our in-orbit satellites were to fail.  We do not anticipate carrying insurance for any of the in-orbit satellites that we use, and we will bear the risk associated with any in-orbit satellite failures.  Recent developments with respect to certain of our satellites are discussed below.



Owned Satellites



EchoStar XIV.EchoStar XIV was designed to meet a minimum 15-year useful life.  During September 2011, we determined that EchoStar XIV experienced a solar array anomaly that reduced the total power available for use by the spacecraft.  While this anomaly did not reduce the estimated useful life of the satellite to less than 15 years or impact commercial operation of the satellite, there can be no assurance that future anomalies will not reduce its useful life or impact its commercial operation.











Leased Satellites



EchoStar VIII.EchoStar VIII was designed to operate 32 DBS transponders with the ability to provide service to the entire continental United States (“CONUS”) at approximately 120 watts per channel, switchable to 16 DBS transponders operating at approximately 240 watts per channel.  EchoStar VIII was also designed with spot-beam technology.  This satellite has experienced several anomalies prior to 2011, and during January 2011 the satellite experienced an anomaly that temporarily disrupted electrical power to some components causing an interruption of broadcast service.  In addition, it has now been determined one of the two on-board computers used to control the satellite failed in connection with the January 2011 anomaly.  None of these anomalies has impacted the commercial operation or estimated useful life of the satellite.  However, if the remaining on-board computer fails, the commercial operation of the satellite would likely be substantially impacted and may result in an impairment of the satellite.  There can also be no assurance that this anomaly or any future anomalies will not reduce its useful life or impact its commercial operation.



Long-Lived Satellite Assets



We evaluate our satellite fleet for impairment as one asset group and test for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable.  While certain of the anomalies discussed above, and previously disclosed, may be considered to represent a significant adverse change in the physical condition of an individual satellite, based on the redundancy designed within each satellite and considering the asset grouping, these anomalies are not considered to be significant events that would require evaluation for impairment recognition.  Unless and until a specific satellite is abandoned or otherwise determined to have no service potential, the net carrying amount related to the satellite would not be written off.



GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS



DBS operators are subject to significant government regulation, primarily by the FCC and, to a certain extent, by Congress, other federal agencies and foreign, state and local authorities.  Depending upon the circumstances, noncompliance with legislation or regulations promulgated by these entities could result in the suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, the termination or loss of contracts or the imposition of contractual damages, civil fines or criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Furthermore, the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to video programming, satellite services, the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business.  If we become subject to new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation that govern Internet network neutrality, we may be required to incur additional expenses or alter our business model.  The manner in which legislation governing Internet network neutrality may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



The following summary of regulatory developments and legislation in the United States is not intended to describe all present and proposed government regulation and legislation affecting the satellite and video programming distribution industries.  Government regulations that are currently the subject of judicial or administrative proceedings, legislative hearings or administrative proposals could change our industry to varying degrees.  We cannot predict either the outcome of these proceedings or any potential impact they might have on the industry or on our operations.



FCC Regulation under the Communications Act



FCC Jurisdiction over our Satellite Operations.The Communications Act gives the FCC broad authority to regulate the operations of satellite companies.  Specifically, the Communications Act gives the FCC regulatory jurisdiction over the following areas relating to communications satellite operations:



·the assignment of satellite radio frequencies and orbital locations, the licensing of satellites and earth stations, the granting of related authorizations, and evaluation of the fitness of a company to be a licensee;

·approval for the relocation of satellites to different orbital locations or the replacement of an existing satellite with a new satellite;











·ensuring compliance with the terms and conditions of such assignments, licenses, authorizations and approvals; including required timetables for construction and operation of satellites;

·avoiding interference with other radio frequency emitters; and

·ensuring compliance with other applicable provisions of the Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations.



To obtain FCC satellite licenses and authorizations, satellite operators must satisfy strict legal, technical and financial qualification requirements.  Once issued, these licenses and authorizations are subject to a number of conditions including, among other things, satisfaction of ongoing due diligence obligations, construction milestones, and various reporting requirements.  Necessary federal approval of these applications may not be granted, may not be granted in a timely manner, or may be granted subject to conditions which may be cumbersome.



Overview of our Satellites, Authorizations and Contractual Rights for Satellite Capacity.Our satellites are located in orbital positions, or slots, that are designated by their western longitude.  An orbital position describes both a physical location and an assignment of spectrum in the applicable frequency band.  Each DBS orbital position has 500 MHz of available Ku-band spectrum that is divided into 32 frequency channels.  Through digital compression technology, we can currently transmit between nine and 13 standard definition digital video channels per DBS frequency channel.  Several of our satellites also include spot-beam technology that enables us to increase the number of markets where we provide local channels, but reduces the number of video channels that could otherwise be offered across the entire United States.



The FCC has licensed us to operate a total of 82 DBS frequency channels at the following orbital locations:



·21 DBS frequency channels at the 119 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to CONUS;

·29 DBS frequency channels at the 110 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to CONUS; and

·32 DBS frequency channels at the 148 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to the Western United States.



We currently do not have any satellites positioned at the 148 degree orbital location as a result of the retirement of EchoStar V.  While we have requested approval from the FCC for the future use of this orbital location, there can be no assurance that the FCC will determine that our proposed future use of this orbital location complies fully with all licensing requirements.  If we do not use this orbital location, we could lose the associated FCC license.



In addition, we currently lease or have entered into agreements to lease capacity on satellites using the following spectrum at the following orbital locations:



·500 MHz of Ku-band FSS spectrum that is divided into 32 frequency channels at the 118.7 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian FSS slot that is capable of providing service to the continental United States, Alaska and Hawaii;

·32 DBS frequency channels at the 129 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian DBS slot that is capable of providing service to most of the United States;

·32 DBS frequency channels at the 61.5 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to most of the United States;

·24 DBS frequency channels at the 77 degree orbital location, which is a Mexican DBS slot that is capable of providing service to most of the United States and Mexico; and

·32 DBS frequency channels at the 72.7 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian DBS slot that is capable of providing service to the United States.



We also have month-to-month FSS capacity available from EchoStar on a satellite located at the 121 degree orbital location.











Mobile-Satellite Service (“MSS”) and Ancillary Terrestrial Component (“ATC”).In 2011, we entered into transactions to acquire DBSD North America and purchase TerreStar’s assets, the two FCC 2GHz MSS licensees.  Both DBSD North America and TerreStar have authority to offer an ATC service with their MSS services.  We currently have consolidated applications pending with the FCC to approve the license transfers accompanied by requests for waiver of the integrated service requirement, the spare satellite requirement and various technical provisions.  If the applications are approved, we will become subject to FCC regulation regarding wireless operations of these licenses and may be subject to certain conditions stemming from the FCC’s grant of the application.  For more information, see “New Business Opportunities — Spectrum Investments” of this annual report on Form 10-K.



700 MHz Spectrum.  In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009.  To commercialize these licenses and satisfy the associated FCC build-out requirements, we will be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others.  Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization and build-out, any such investment or partnership could vary significantly.  Part or all of these licenses may be terminated if the associated FCC build-out requirements are not satisfied.



Multichannel Video Distribution & Data Service (“MVDDS”).  In 2010, we purchased all of South.com L.L.C., which is an entity that holds MVDDS licenses in 37 markets in the United States.  We are subject to certain FCC build-out requirements for these licenses.  Part or all of our MVDDS licenses may be terminated if those FCC build-out requirements are not satisfied.



Duration of our DBS Satellite Licenses.  Generally speaking, all of our satellite licenses are subject to expiration unless renewed by the FCC.  The term of each of our DBS licenses is ten years.  Our licenses are currently set to expire at various times.  In addition, we currently operate at the 118.7 degree orbital location under a special temporary authorization.  A special temporary authorization is granted for a period of only 180 days or less, subject again to possible renewal by the FCC.  Generally, our FCC licenses and special temporary authorization have been renewed by the FCC on a routine basis, but there can be no assurance that the FCC will continue to do so.



Opposition and Other Risks to our Licenses.  Several third parties have opposed, and we expect them to continue to oppose, some of our FCC satellite authorizations and pending and future requests to the FCC for extensions, modifications, waivers and approvals of our licenses.  In addition, we may not have fully complied with all of the FCC reporting, filing and other requirements in connection with our satellite authorizations.  Consequently, it is possible the FCC could revoke, terminate, condition or decline to extend or renew certain of our authorizations or licenses.



4.5 Degree Spacing Tweener Satellites.  The FCC has proposed to allow so-called “tweener” DBS operations — DBS satellites operating at orbital locations 4.5 degrees (half of the usual nine degrees) away from other DBS satellites.  The FCC granted authorizations to Spectrum Five and EchoStar for tweener satellites at the 86.5 and 114.5 degree orbital locations.  Even though these authorizations were subsequently cancelled because the FCC determined that the licensees did not meet certain milestone requirements, Spectrum Five and EchoStar have requested reconsideration of the FCC’s determinations for both of these licensees.  Tweener operations close to our licensed orbital locations (including Spectrum Five’s proposed use at the 114.5 degree orbital location) could cause harmful interference to our service and constrain our future operations.  The FCC has not completed its rulemaking on the operating and service rules for tweener satellites.



Interference from Other Services Sharing Satellite Spectrum.  The FCC has adopted rules that allow non-geostationary orbit fixed satellite services to operate on a co-primary basis in the same frequency band as DBS and FSS.  The FCC has also authorized the use of MVDDS in the DBS band.  MVDDS licenses were auctioned in 2004.  While we are not aware of any MVDDS systems having been commercially deployed, several systems are currently being tested and may soon be deployed.  Despite regulatory provisions intended to protect DBS and FSS operations from harmful interference, there can be no assurance that operations by other satellites or terrestrial communication services in the DBS and FSS bands will not interfere with our DBS and FSS operations and adversely affect our business.











International Satellite Competition and Interference.  DirecTV has obtained FCC authority to provide service to the United States from a Canadian DBS orbital slot, and EchoStar has obtained authority to provide service to the United States from both a Mexican and a Canadian DBS orbital slot.  Further, we have also received authority to do the same from a Canadian DBS orbital slot at 129 degrees and a Canadian FSS orbital slot at 118.7 degrees.  The possibility that the FCC will allow service to the U.S. from additional foreign slots may permit additional competition against us from other satellite providers.  It may also provide a means by which to increase our available satellite capacity in the United States.  In addition, a number of administrations, such as Great Britain and the Netherlands, have requested to add orbital locations serving the U.S. close to our licensed slots.  Such operations could cause harmful interference to our satellites and constrain our future operations.



Rules Relating to Broadcast Services.  The FCC imposes different rules for “subscription” and “broadcast” services.  We believe that because we offer a subscription programming service, we are not subject to many of the regulatory obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees.  However, we cannot be certain whether the FCC will find in the future that we must comply with regulatory obligations as a broadcast licensee, and certain parties have requested that we be treated as a broadcaster.  If the FCC determines that we are a broadcast licensee, it could require us to comply with all regulatory obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees, which in certain respects are subject to more burdensome regulation than subscription television service providers.



Public Interest Requirements.  The FCC imposes certain public interest obligations on our DBS licenses.  These obligations require us to set aside four percent of our channel capacity exclusively for noncommercial programming for which we must charge programmers below-cost rates and for which we may not impose additional charges on subscribers.  The Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010 (“STELA”) requires the FCC to decrease this set-aside to 3.5 percent for satellite carriers who provide retransmission of state public affairs networks in 15 states and are otherwise qualified.  The FCC, however, has not yet determined whether we qualify for this decrease in set-aside.  The obligation to provide noncommercial programming may displace programming for which we could earn commercial rates and could adversely affect our financial results.  We cannot be sure that, if the FCC were to review our methodology for processing public interest carriage requests, computing the channel capacity we must set aside or determining the rates that we charge public interest programmers, it would find them in compliance with the public interest requirements.



Separate Security, Plug and Play

.



Retransmission Consent.The Copyright Act generally gives satellite companies a statutory copyright license to retransmit local broadcast channels by satellite back into the market from which they originated, subject to obtaining the retransmission consent of local network stations that do not elect “must carry” status, as required by the Communications Act.  If we fail to reach retransmission consent agreements with such broadcasters, we cannot carry their signals.  This could have an adverse effect on our strategy to compete with cable and other satellite companies that provide local signals.  While we have been able to reach retransmission consent agreements with most of these local network stations, there remain stations with which we have not been able to reach an agreement. We cannot be sure that we will secure these agreements or that we will secure new agreements on acceptable terms (or at all) upon the expiration of our current retransmission consent agreements, some of which are short-term.  In











recent years, national broadcasters have used their ownership of certain local broadcast stations to attempt to require us to carry additional cable programming in exchange for retransmission consent of their local broadcast stations.  These requirements may place constraints on available capacity on our satellites for other programming.  Furthermore, the rates we are charged for retransmitting local channels have been increasing.  We may be unable to pass these increased programming costs on to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  The FCC is currently considering changes to its rules governing retransmission consent disputes that are designed to provide more guidance to the negotiating parties on good-faith negotiation requirements and to improve notice to consumers in advance of possible service disruptions.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of this FCC proceeding.



Digital HD Carry-One, Carry-All Requirement.To provide any full-power local broadcast signal in any market, we are required to retransmit all qualifying broadcast signals in that market (“carry-one, carry-all”).  The FCC has adopted digital carriage rules that require DBS providers to phase in carry-one, carry-all obligations with respect to the carriage of full-power broadcasters’ HD signals by February 2013 in markets in which DISH elects to provide local channels in HD.  In addition, STELA has imposed accelerated HD carriage requirements for noncommercial educational stations on DBS providers that do not have a certain contractual relationship with a certain number of such stations.  DISH Network has entered into an agreement with a number of PBS stations to comply with the requirements.  The carriage of additional HD signals on our pay-TV service could cause us to experience significant capacity constraints and prevent us from carrying additional popular national programs and/or carrying those national programs in HD.



In addition, there is a pending rulemaking before the FCC regarding whether to require DBS providers to carry all broadcast stations in a local market in both standard definition and HD if they carry any station in that market in both standard definition and HD.  If we were required to carry multiple versions of each broadcast station, we would have to dedicate more of our finite satellite capacity to each broadcast station.  We cannot predict the outcome or timing of that rulemaking process.



Distant Signals.  Pursuant to STELA, we have been able to obtain a waiver of a court injunction that previously prevented us from retransmitting certain distant network signals under a statutory copyright license.  Because of that waiver, we may once again provide distant network signals to eligible subscribers.  To qualify for that waiver, we are required to provide local service in all 210 local markets in the U.S. on an ongoing basis.  This condition poses a significant strain on our capacity.  Moreover, we may lose that waiver if we are found to have failed to provide local service in any of the 210 local markets.  If we lose the waiver, the injunction could be reinstated.  Furthermore, depending on the severity of the failure, we may also be subject to other sanctions, which may include, among other things, damages.  Pursuant to STELA, our compliance with certain conditions of the waiver is subject to periodic examination and review.



Dependence on Cable Act for Program Access



In addition, affiliates of certain cable providers have denied us access to sports programming they feed to their cable systems terrestrially, rather than by satellite.  The FCC held that new denials of such service are unfair if they have the purpose or effect of significantly hindering us from providing programming to consumers.  However, we cannot be sure that we can prevail in a complaint related to such programming and gain access to it.  Our continuing failure











to access such programming could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete in regions serviced by these cable providers.



MDU Exclusivity.  The FCC has found that cable companies should not be permitted to have exclusive relationships with multiple dwelling units (e.g., apartment buildings).  In May 2009, the D.C. Circuit upheld the FCC’s decision.  While the FCC requested comments in November 2007 on whether DBS and Private Cable Operators should be prohibited from having similar relationships with multiple dwelling units, it has yet to make a formal decision.  If the cable exclusivity ban were to be extended to DBS providers, our ability to serve these types of buildings and communities would be adversely affected.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of the FCC’s consideration of this proposal.



Net Neutrality.The FCC has recently imposed rules of nondiscrimination and transparency upon wireline broadband providers.  While this decision provides certain protection from discrimination by wireline broadband providers against our distribution of video content via the Internet, it may still permit wireline broadband providers to provide certain services over their wireline broadband network that are not subject to these requirements.  Although the FCC imposed similar transparency requirements on wireless broadband providers, it declined to impose a nondiscrimination rule.  Instead, wireless broadband Internet providers are prohibited from blocking websites and applications that compete with voice and video telephony services.  The FCC’s net neutrality rules have been challenged in Federal court and could be curtailed or overturned if those challenges are successful.  One party has asked the FCC to clarify and/or ease the limitations under which wireline broadband providers can provide services that are not subject to these requirements.  It is uncertain how these requirements, even if they are affirmed by the Federal court of appeals, may be interpreted and enforced by the FCC; therefore, we cannot predict the practical effect of these rules on our ability to distribute our video content via the Internet.



Comcast/NBC Universal Transaction.  Comcast and General Electric have joined their programming properties, including NBC, Bravo and many others, in a venture to be controlled by Comcast.  In January 2011, the transaction was approved by the FCC and the Department of Justice.  The FCC conditioned its approval on, among other things, Comcast complying with the terms of the FCC’s recent order on network neutrality (even if that order is vacated by judicial or legislative action) and Comcast licensing its affiliated content to us, other traditional pay-TV providers and certain providers of video services over the Internet on fair and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, including, among others, price.  If Comcast does not license its affiliated content to us on fair and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, we can seek arbitration and continue to carry such content while the arbitration is pending.  However, it is uncertain how these conditions may be interpreted and enforced by the FCC; therefore, we cannot predict the practical effect of these conditions.



Spectrum Investment FCC Authorization



During the first half of 2011, we entered into a transaction to acquire 100% of the equity of reorganized DBSD North America for approximately $1.4 billion upon DBSD North America’s emergence from bankruptcy, which included capital stock and convertible securities of, and certain claims related to, DBSD North America.  In addition, in June 2011, we entered into the TerreStar Transaction for a purchase price of $1.375 billion. We have paid all but $30 million of the purchase price for the TerreStar Transaction, which will be paid upon closing of the TerreStar Transaction, or upon certain other conditions being met under the asset purchase agreement.  Additionally, during the fourth quarter 2011, we and Sprint entered into the Sprint Settlement Agreement pursuant to which all disputed issues relating to our acquisition of DBSD North America and the TerreStar Transaction were resolved between us and Sprint, including, but not limited to, issues relating to costs allegedly incurred by Sprint to relocate users from the spectrum now licensed to DBSD North America and TerreStar.  Pursuant to the Sprint Settlement Agreement, we made a net payment of approximately $114 million to Sprint.  Our ultimate acquisition of 100% of the equity of reorganized DBSD North America and consummation of the TerreStar Transaction are subject to certain conditions, including approval by the FCC.



Under our agreements to acquire DBSD North America and purchase TerreStar’s assets, we paid substantially all of the purchase price for both transactions prior to the receipt of certain regulatory approvals (the FCC with respect to DBSD North America, and the FCC and Industry Canada with respect to TerreStar).  On February 7, 2012, Industry Canada approved the transfer of the Canadian spectrum licenses held by TerreStar to us.  If the remaining required approvals are not obtained, subject to certain exceptions, we have the right to require and direct the sale of some or











all of the assets of the relevant company to a third party and we would be entitled to the proceeds from such a sale.  These proceeds could, however, be substantially less than amounts we have paid in the respective transactions.



In addition, our consolidated FCC applications for approval of the license transfers from DBSD North America and TerreStar were accompanied by requests for waiver of the integrated service requirement, the spare satellite requirement and various technical provisions.  Waiver of the integrated service requirement would allow DISH to offer single-mode terrestrial terminals to customers who do not desire satellite functionality.  The spectrum licenses currently held by DBSD North America and TerreStar do not include a waiver of this integrated service requirement.  Our integrated service requirement waiver request has been opposed by certain parties, and there can be no assurance that the FCC will approve it.  If our FCC applications and waiver requests are not granted by the FCC, or are granted in a manner that varies from the form we have requested, it could cause the value of these assets to be impaired, potentially requiring us to take significant write-downs on these assets.  We assess potential impairments to these assets annually, or more often if indicators of impairment arise, to determine whether an impairment condition may exist.  We use a probability weighted analysis considering estimated future cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved and market based data to assess potential impairments.



To the extent we receive these approvals and waivers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on these spectrum investments or that we will be able to profitably deploy the assets represented by these spectrum investments.  We will likely be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others to commercialize these licenses.  Because we have not received approval from the FCC, we do not yet know the full costs (including any build-out requirements) associated with complying with regulations applicable to our acquisition of DBSD North America or the TerreStar Transaction.  Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization and build-out, any such investment or partnership could vary significantly, which may affect the carrying value of our investments and our future financial condition or results of operations.



The International Telecommunication Union



Our pay-TV service also must conform to the ITU broadcasting satellite service plan for Region 2 (which includes the United States).  If any of our operations are not consistent with this plan, the ITU will only provide authorization on a non-interference basis pending successful modification of the plan or the agreement of all affected administrations to the non-conforming operations.  Certain of our DBS satellites are not presently entitled to any interference protection from other satellites that are in conformance with the plan.  Accordingly, unless and until the ITU modifies its broadcasting satellite service plan to include the technical parameters of DBS applicants’ non-conforming operations, our non-conforming satellites, along with those of other DBS operators, must not cause harmful electrical interference with other assignments that are in conformance with the plan.



Export Control Regulation



The delivery of satellites and related technical information for purposes of launch by foreign launch service providers is subject to strict export control and prior approval requirements.  We are required to obtain import and export licenses from the United States government to receive and deliver certain components of direct-to-home satellite television systems.  In addition, the delivery of satellites and the supply of certain related ground control equipment, technical services and data, and satellite communication/control services to destinations outside the United States are subject to export control and prior approval requirements from the United States government (including prohibitions on the sharing of certain satellite-related goods and services with China).



PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY



Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services that we offer.  In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products or services infringe intellectual property rights held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property rights at a material cost, or to redesign those products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing any patent claims.  If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to obtain the intellectual property rights at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position.











We may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that our products or services may potentially infringe.  In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until the Patent and Trademark Office either publishes the application or issues a patent (whichever arises first) and, accordingly, our products may infringe claims contained in pending patent applications of which we are not aware.  Further, the process of determining definitively whether a claim of infringement is valid often involves expensive and protracted litigation, even if we are ultimately successful on the merits.



We cannot estimate the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain intellectual property licenses or the availability and cost of any such licenses.  Those costs, and their impact on our results of operations, could be material.  Damages in patent infringement cases can be substantial, and in certain circumstances can be trebled.  To the extent that we are required to pay unanticipated royalties to third parties, these increased costs of doing business could negatively affect our liquidity and operating results.  We are currently defending multiple patent infringement actions.  We cannot be certain the courts will conclude these companies do not own the rights they claim, that our products do not infringe on these rights and/or that these rights are not valid.  Further, we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain licenses from these persons on commercially reasonable terms or, if we were unable to obtain such licenses, that we would be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement.



ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS



We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations.  These include laws regulating air emissions, water discharge and waste management.  We attempt to maintain compliance with all such requirements.  We do not expect capital or other expenditures for environmental compliance to be material in 2012 or 2013.  Environmental requirements are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time.  Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that these requirements will not change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business.



SEGMENT REPORTING DATA AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA



For segment reporting data and principal geographic area data for 2011, 2010 and 2009, see Note 17 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



EMPLOYEES



We had approximately 34,000 employees at December 31, 2011, most of whom are located in the United States.  We generally consider relations with our employees to be good.



Approximately 60 employees in three of our field offices have voted to have a union represent them in contract negotiations.  While we are not currently a party to any collective bargaining agreements, we are currently negotiating collective bargaining agreements at these offices.



WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION



We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and accordingly file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.  The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room.  As an electronic filer, our public filings are also maintained on the SEC’s Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov.











WEBSITE ACCESS



Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act also may be accessed free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC.  The address of that website is http://www.dishnetwork.com.



We have adopted a written code of ethics that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance with Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the SEC promulgated thereunder.  Our code of ethics is available on our corporate website at http://www.dishnetwork.com.  In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers of, the provisions of this code of ethics that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events on our website.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



(furnished in accordance with Item 401 (b) of Regulation S-K, pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K)



The following table and information below sets forth the name, age and position with DISH Network of each of our executive officers, the period during which each executive officer has served as such, and each executive officer’s business experience during the past five years:



NameAgePositionCharles   W. Ergen58ChairmanJoseph   P. Clayton62President   and Chief Executive Officer and DirectorW.   Erik Carlson42Executive   Vice President, DNS and Service OperationsThomas   A. Cullen52Executive   Vice President, Corporate DevelopmentJames   DeFranco59Executive   Vice President and DirectorR.   Stanton Dodge44Executive   Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryBernard   L. Han47Executive   Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerMichael   Kelly50President,   Blockbuster L.L.C.Roger   J. Lynch49Executive   Vice President, Advanced TechnologiesRobert   E. Olson52Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerStephen   W. Wood53Executive   Vice President, Human Resources



Charles W. Ergen.Mr. Ergen is our executive Chairman and has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of DISH Network since its formation and, during the past five years, has held executive officer and director positions with DISH Network and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Ergen also serves as executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board of Directors of EchoStar.  Mr. Ergen co-founded DISH Network with his spouse, Cantey Ergen, and James DeFranco, in 1980.



Joseph P. Clayton.Mr. Clayton has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and has been a member of our Board of Directors since June 2011.  Mr. Clayton served as Chairman of Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. (Sirius) from November 2004 through July 2008 and served as Chief Executive Officer of Sirius from November 2001 through November 2004.  Prior to joining Sirius, Mr. Clayton served as President of Global Crossing North America, as President and Chief Executive Officer of Frontier Corporation and as Executive Vice President, Marketing and Sales - Americas and Asia, of Thomson S.A.  Mr. Clayton is also currently serving on the Board of Directors of Transcend Services, Inc.  Mr. Clayton previously served on the Board of Directors of EchoStar from October 2008 until June 2011.



W. Erik Carlson.Mr. Carlson has served as our Executive Vice President, DNS and Service Operations since February 2008 and is responsible for overseeing our residential and commercial installations, customer billing and equipment retrieval and refurbishment operations.  Mr. Carlson previously was Senior Vice President of Retail Services, a position he held since mid-2006.  He joined DISH Network in 1995 and has held operating roles of increasing responsibility over the years.



Thomas A. Cullen.Mr. Cullenhas served as our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development since July 2011.  Mr. Cullen served as our Executive Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Programming from April 2009 until July











2011 and as our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development from December 2006 until April 2009.  Before joining DISH Network, Mr. Cullen served as President of TensorComm, a venture-backed wireless technology company.  From August 2003 to April 2005, Mr. Cullen was with Charter Communications Inc., serving as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services and Business Development from August 2003 until he was promoted to Executive Vice President in August 2004.



James DeFranco.Mr. DeFranco is one of our Executive Vice Presidents and has been one of our vice presidents and a member of the Board of Directors since our formation.  During the past five years he has held various executive officer and director positions with our subsidiaries.  Mr. DeFranco co-founded DISH Network with Charles W. Ergen and Cantey Ergen, in 1980.



R. Stanton Dodge.Mr. Dodge has served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since June 2007 and is responsible for all legal and government affairs for DISH Network and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Dodge has served on the Board of Directors of EchoStar since March 2009.  Mr. Dodge also served as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from October 2007 to November 2011 pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and EchoStar.  Since joining DISH Network in November 1996, he has held various positions of increasing responsibility in DISH Network’s legal department.



Bernard L. Han.Mr. Han has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2009 and is in charge of all operations and information technology functions for DISH Network.  Mr. Han served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of DISH Network from September 2006 until April 2009.  Mr. Han also served as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2008 to June 2010 pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and EchoStar.  From October 2002 to May 2005, Mr. Han served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Northwest Airlines, Inc.



Michael Kelly.Mr. Kelly has served as the President of Blockbuster L.L.C since May 2011.  Mr. Kelly served as our Executive Vice President, Direct, Commercial and Advertising Sales from December 2005 until May 2011 and as Executive Vice President of DISH Network Service L.L.C. and Customer Service from February 2004 until December 2005.



Roger J. Lynch.Mr. Lynch has served as our Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies since November 2009.  Mr. Lynch also serves as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies.  Prior to joining DISH Network, Mr. Lynch served as Chairman and CEO of Video Networks International, Ltd., an IPTV technology company in the United Kingdom from 2002 until 2009.



Robert E. Olson.Mr. Olson has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2009.Mr. Olson was the Chief Financial Officer of Trane Commercial Systems, the largest operating division of American Standard, from April 2006 to August 2008.  From April 2003 to January 2006, Mr. Olson served as the Chief Financial Officer of AT&T’s Consumer Services division and later its Business Services division.



Stephen W. Wood.Mr. Wood has served as our Executive Vice President, Human Resources since May 2006 and is responsible for all human resource functions for DISH Network and its subsidiaries.  Prior to joining DISH Network, Mr. Wood served as an Executive Vice President for Gate Gourmet International from 2004 to 2006.



There are no arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which any executive officer was selected as such.  Pursuant to the Bylaws of DISH Network, executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.











