Item 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

DISH Network Corporation is the nation’s third largest pay-TV provider, with approximately 14.100
million customers across the United States as of December 31, 2009. We were organized in 1995 as a
corporation under the laws of the State of Nevada and started offering DISH Network subscription
television services in March 1996.

Our common stock is publicly traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “DISH.”
Our principal executive offices are located at 9601 South Meridian Boulevard, Englewood, Colorado
80112 and our telephone number is (303) 723-1000.

On January 1, 2008, we completed a tax-free distribution of our technology and set-top box business
and certain infrastructure assets (the “Spin-off”) into a separate publicly-traded company,
EchoStar Corporation (“EchoStar”) which was incorporated in Nevada on October 12, 2007. DISH
Network and EchoStar now operate as separate publicly-traded companies, and neither entity has any
ownership interest in the other. However, a substantial majority of the voting power of the shares
of both companies is owned beneficially by Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer.

Business Strategy

Our business strategy is to be the best provider of video services in the United States by
providing high-quality products, outstanding customer service, and great value. We promote the
DISH Network programming packages as providing our subscribers with a better “price-to-value”
relationship than those available from other subscription television providers. We believe that
there continues to be unsatisfied demand for high quality, reasonably priced television programming
services.

•High-Quality Products.We offer a wide selection of local and national programming,
featuring more national and local HD channels than most pay-TV providers. We have been a
technology leader in our industry, introducing award-winning DVRs, dual tuner receivers,
1080p video on demand, and external hard drives. To maintain and enhance our
competitiveness over the long term, we plan to promote a suite of integrated products
designed to maximize the convenience and ease of watching TV anytime and anywhere, which we
refer to as, “TV Everywhere.” Our TV Everywhere™service utilizes, among other
things, Slingbox “placeshifting” technology.•Outstanding Customer Service.We strive to provide outstanding customer service by
improving the quality of the initial installation of subscriber equipment, improving the
reliability of our equipment, better educating our customers about our products and
services, and resolving customer problems promptly and effectively when they arise.•Great Value.We have historically been viewed as the low-cost provider in the pay-TV
industry because we offer the lowest everyday prices available to consumers after
introductory promotions expire.

Products and Services

Programming.We provide programming which includes more than 280 basic video channels, 60 Sirius
Satellite Radio music channels, 30 premium movie channels, 35 regional and specialty sports
channels, 2,500 local channels, 220 Latino and international channels, and 50 channels of
pay-per-view content. Although we distribute over 2,500 local channels, a subscriber typically may
only receive the local channels available in the subscriber’s home market. As of December 31,
2009, we provided local channel coverage in standard definition to markets covering about 97% of
U.S. TV households. In addition, we provided HD local channels to markets representing
approximately 93% of U.S. TV households.





Receiver Systems.Our subscribers receive programming via in-home equipment that includes a small
satellite dish, digital set-top receivers, and remote controls. Some of our advanced receiver
models feature DVRs, HD capability, and dual-tuners which allow independent viewing on two separate
televisions. Our newest receiver models are Internet-protocol compatible which allows consumers to
view movies and other content on their televisions via the Internet and a broadband connection. We
rely on EchoStar to design and manufacture all of our new receivers and certain related components.
See “Item 1A – Risk Factors.”

Content Delivery

Digital Broadcast Operations Centers.The principal digital broadcast operations centers we use
are EchoStar’s facilities located in Cheyenne, Wyoming and Gilbert, Arizona. We also use eight
regional digital broadcast operations centers owned and operated by EchoStar that allow us to
maximize the use of the spot beam capabilities of certain owned and leased satellites. Programming
content is delivered to these centers by fiber or satellite and processed, compressed, encrypted
and then uplinked to satellites for delivery to consumers.

In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a broadcast agreement pursuant to which EchoStar
provides us broadcast services, including teleport services such as transmission and downlinking,
channel origination, and channel management services. The term of this agreement expires on
January 1, 2011. However, we have the right, but not the obligation, to extend the broadcast
agreement for one additional year. We may terminate channel origination services and
channel management services for any reason and without any liability upon sixty days written notice
to EchoStar. If we terminate teleport services for a reason other than EchoStar’s breach, we are
obligated to pay EchoStar the aggregate amount of the remainder of the expected cost of providing
the teleport services.

Satellites.Our DISH Network programming is currently delivered to customers using satellites that
operate in the “Ku” band portion of the microwave radio spectrum. The Ku-band is divided into two
spectrum segments. The portion of the Ku-band that allows the use of higher power satellites —
12.2 to 12.7 GHz over the United States — is known as the Broadcast Satellite Service (“BSS”) band,
which is also referred to as the Direct Broadcast Satellite (“DBS”) band. The portion of the
Ku-band that utilizes lower power satellites — 11.7 to 12.2 GHz over the United States — is known
as the Fixed Satellite Service (“FSS”) band.

Most of our programming is currently delivered using DBS satellites. To accommodate the more
bandwidth-intensive HD programming and other needs, we continue to explore opportunities to expand
our satellite capacity through the acquisition of new spectrum, the launching of more
technologically advanced satellites, and the more efficient use of existing spectrum via, among
other things, better modulation and compression technologies.

We own or lease capacity on 11 satellites in geostationary orbit approximately 22,300 miles above
the equator. For further information concerning these satellites and satellite anomalies, please
see the table and discussion under “Satellites” below.

Conditional Access System.Our conditional access system secures our programming content using
encryption so that only paying customers can access our programming. We use microchips embedded in
credit card-sized access cards, called “smart cards,” or security chips in our receiver systems to
control access to authorized programming content (“Security Access Devices”).

Our signal encryption has been compromised in the past and may be compromised in the future even
though we continue to respond with significant investment in security measures, such as Security
Access Device replacement programs and updates in security software, that are intended to make
signal theft more difficult. It has been our prior experience that security measures may only be
effective for short periods of time or not at all and that we remain susceptible to additional
signal theft. During the second quarter of 2009, we completed the replacement of our Security
Access Devices that re-secured our system. However, we expect additional future replacements of
these devices will be necessary to keep our system secure. We cannot ensure that we will be
successful in reducing or controlling theft of our programming content and we may incur additional
costs in the future if our system’s security is compromised.





Distribution Channels

While we offer receiver systems and programming through direct sales channels, a majority of our
new subscriber acquisitions are generated through independent third parties such as small satellite
retailers, direct marketing groups, local and regional consumer electronics stores, nationwide
retailers, and telecommunications companies. In general, we pay these independent third parties a
mix of upfront and monthly incentives for these sales. In addition, we partner with
telecommunications companies to bundle DISH Network programming with broadband and voice services
on a single bill.

Competition

As of December 31, 2009, our 14.100 million subscribers represent approximately 15% of pay-TV
subscribers in the United States. We face substantial competition from established pay-TV
providers and increasing competition from companies providing/facilitating the delivery of video
content via the Internet, among other things, to computers, televisions, and mobile devices.

Established TV Providers

•Other Direct Broadcast Satellite Operators.We compete directly with the DirecTV Group,
Inc., or DirecTV, the largest satellite TV provider in the U.S. which had over 18.5 million
subscribers at the end of 2009, representing approximately 19% of pay-TV subscribers.



•Cable Television Companies.We encounter substantial competition in the pay-TV
industry from numerous cable television companies that operate via franchise licenses
across the U.S. According to the National Cable & Telecommunications Association’s 2008
Industry Overview, 96% of the 129 million U.S. housing units are passed by cable.
Approximately 100 million households subscribe to a pay-TV
service and approximately 62% of
pay-TV subscribers receive their programming from a cable operator. Cable companies are
typically able to bundle their video services with broadband and voice services and many
have significant investments in companies that provide programming content.



•Telecommunications Companies. Large telecommunications companies have been upgrading
older copper wire lines with fiber optic lines in their larger markets. These fiber optic
lines provide high capacity bandwidth, enabling telecommunications companies to offer
increased HD video content that can be bundled with their broadband and voice services. In
particular, AT&T and Verizon have built and are continuing to build fiber-optic based
networks to provide video services in substantial portions of their service areas.



•Over-the-Air Broadcasters.In most areas of the United States, consumers can receive
over-the-air terrestrial video broadcasts typically ranging from four to fifteen channels,
depending on the size of the market. These broadcasters provide local, network and
syndicated programming free of charge. The transition from analog to digital delivery has
allowed broadcasters to provide improved signal quality, offer additional channels
including content broadcast in HD, and explore new business opportunities such as mobile
video, mentioned below.

New and Emerging Technologies

•Internet Delivered Video.We expect to face increasing competition from
content providers who distribute video directly to consumers over the Internet.
Programming offered over the Internet has become more prevalent as the speed and quality of
broadband networks have improved. Significant changes in consumer behavior with regard to
the means by which they obtain video entertainment and information in response to this
emerging digital media competition could materially adversely affect our business, results
of operations and financial condition or otherwise disrupt our business.•Wireless Mobile Video.We also expect to face increasing competition from wireless
telecommunications providers who offer mobile video offerings. We expect mobile video
offerings will likely become more
prevalent in the marketplace as wireless telecommunications providers implement the fourth
generation of wireless communications.







Acquisition of New Subscribers

We incur significant upfront costs to acquire subscribers, including advertising, retailer
incentives, equipment and installation. In addition, customer promotions to acquire new
subscribers result in less revenue to us over the promotional period. While we attempt to recoup
these upfront costs over the lives of their subscription, there can be no assurance that we will.
We deploy business rules such as credit requirements and contractual commitments, and we strive to
provide outstanding customer service, to increase the likelihood of customers keeping their DISH
Network service over longer periods of time. Our subscriber acquisition costs may vary
significantly from period to period.

Advertising.We use print, radio, television and Internet media, on a local and national basis to
motivate potential subscribers to call DISH Network, visit our website or contact independent third
party retailers.

Retailer Incentives.We pay retailers an upfront incentive for each new subscriber they bring to
DISH Network and, for certain retailers, we pay small monthly incentives for up to 60 months
provided, among other things, the customer continuously subscribes to qualified programming.

Equipment.We incur significant upfront costs to provide our new subscribers with in-home
equipment, including advanced HD and DVR receivers, which most of our new subscribers lease from
us. While we seek to recoup such upfront equipment costs mostly through monthly fees, there can be
no assurance that we will be successful in achieving that objective. In addition, upon
deactivation of a subscriber we may refurbish and redeploy their equipment which lowers future
upfront costs. However, our ability to capitalize on these cost savings may be limited as
technological advances and consumer demand for new features may render the returned equipment
obsolete.

Installation.We incur significant upfront costs to install satellite dishes and receivers in the
homes of our new customers.

New Customer Promotions.We often offer free programming and/or promotional pricing during
introductory periods for new subscribers. While such promotional activities have an economic cost
and reduce our subscriber-related revenue, they are not included in our definitions of subscriber
acquisition costs or the SAC metric.

Customer Retention

We incur significant costs to retain our existing customers, mostly by upgrading their equipment to
HD and DVR receivers. As with our subscriber acquisition costs, our retention spending includes
the cost of equipment and installation. In certain circumstances, we also offer free programming
and/or promotional pricing for limited periods for existing customers in exchange for a contractual
commitment. A component of our retention efforts includes the installation of equipment for
customers who move. Our subscriber retention costs may vary significantly from period to period.

Customer Service

Customer Service Centers.We use both internally-operated and outsourced customer service centers
to handle calls from prospective and existing customers. We strive to answer customer calls
promptly and to resolve issues effectively on the first call. We intend to better use the Internet
and other applications to provide our customers with more self-service capabilities over time.

Installation and Other In-Home Service Operations.High-quality installations, upgrades, and
in-home repairs are critical to providing good customer service. Such in-home service is performed
by both DISH Network employees and a network of independent contractors and includes, among other
things, priority technical support, replacement equipment, cabling and power surge repairs for a
monthly fee (“Service Plan”).





Subscriber Management.We presently use, and depend on, CSG Systems International, Inc.’s software
system for the majority of DISH Network subscriber billing and related functions.

New Business Opportunities

From time to time we evaluate opportunities for strategic investments or acquisitions that may
complement our current services and products, enhance our technical capabilities, improve or
sustain our competitive position, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We may make investments
in or partner with others to expand our business into mobile and portable video, data and voice
services.

In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless licenses, which were granted to
us by the FCC in February 2009. To commercialize these licenses and satisfy FCC build-out
requirements, we will be required to make significant additional investments or partner with
others. Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization and build-out, any such
investment or partnership could vary significantly. Part or all of our licenses may be terminated
for failure to satisfy FCC build-out requirements. We are currently performing a market test to
evaluate different technologies and consumer acceptance.

SATELLITES

Most of our programming is currently delivered using DBS satellites. We continue to explore
opportunities to expand our available satellite capacity through the use of other available
spectrum. Increasing our available spectrum is particularly important as more bandwidth intensive
HD programming is produced and to address new video and data applications consumers may desire in
the future. We utilize satellites in geostationary orbit approximately 22,300 miles above the
equator detailed in the table below.

OriginalDegreeUsefulLaunchOrbitalLifeLease TermSatellitesDateLocation(Years)(Years)Owned:EchoStar I (1)December 19957712EchoStar VIIFebruary 200211912EchoStar XFebruary 200611012EchoStar XIJuly 200811012Leased from EchoStar:EchoStar III (1)October 199761.512EchoStar VI (1)July 200072.712EchoStar VIII (1)(2)August 20027712EchoStar XII (1)July 200361.510Nimiq 5 (2)September 200972.71010Leased from Other Third Party:Anik F3 (3)April 2007118.71515Ciel II (3)December 20081291010Under Construction:Owned:EchoStar XIVEarly 201011915EchoStar XVMid-201061.515Leased from EchoStar:QuetzSat-12011771010EchoStar XVI201261.51010



(1)Discussed under “Leased from/to EchoStar” below.(2)We lease a portion of the capacity on these satellites.(3)These satellites are accounted for as capital leases.





Satellite Capacity Leased from/to EchoStar

In connection with the Spin-off and subsequent to the Spin-off, we entered into certain satellite
capacity agreements pursuant to which we lease certain satellite capacity on certain satellites
owned or leased by EchoStar. In December 2009, we entered into a satellite capacity agreement
pursuant to which EchoStar leases satellite capacity on a certain satellite owned by us. The fees
for the services provided under these satellite capacity agreements depend, among other things,
upon the orbital location of the applicable satellite and the frequency on which the applicable
satellite provides services. The term of each of the leases is set forth below:

EchoStar III, VI, VIII, and XII.We lease certain satellite capacity from EchoStar on EchoStar
III, VI, VIII, and XII. The leases generally terminate upon the earlier of: (i) the end of
the life or the replacement of the satellite (unless we determine to renew on a year-to-year
basis); (ii) the date the satellite fails; (iii) the date the transponder on which service is
being provided fails; or (iv) a certain date, which depends upon, among other things, the
estimated useful life of the satellite, whether the replacement satellite fails at launch or in
orbit prior to being placed in service, and the exercise of certain renewal options. We
generally have the option to renew each lease on a year-to-year basis through the end of the
respective satellite’s life. There can be no assurance that any options to renew such
agreements will be exercised.

EchoStar I.EchoStar leases certain satellite capacity from us on EchoStar I. The lease
generally terminates upon the earlier of: (i) the end of the life or the replacement of the
satellite (unless EchoStar determines to renew on a year-to-year basis); (ii) the date the
satellite fails; (iii) the date the transponder on which service is being provided fails; or
(iv) a certain date, which depends upon, among other things, the estimated useful life of the
satellite, whether the replacement satellite fails at launch or in orbit prior to being placed
in service, and the exercise of certain renewal options. EchoStar generally has the option to
renew this lease on a year-to-year basis through the end of the satellite’s life. There can be
no assurance that any options to renew this agreement will be exercised.





Nimiq 5. During September 2009, we entered into a ten-year satellite service agreement with
EchoStar for capacity on the Nimiq 5 satellite. Pursuant to this agreement, we will receive
service from EchoStar on all 32 of the DBS transponders covered by the transponder contract with
Telesat Canada (“Telesat”). We began receiving service on 16 of these DBS transponders upon
service commencement of the satellite and will receive service on the remaining 16 DBS transponders
over a phase-in period that will be completed in 2012.

Satellite Capacity Leased from Other Third Parties

•Anik F3. Anik F3, an FSS satellite, is equipped with 32 Ku-band transponders, 24 C-band
transponders and a small Ka-band payload. We have leased 100% of the Ku-band capacity on
Anik F3 for a period of 15 years.•Ciel II.Ciel II, a Canadian DBS satellite, has both spot beam capabilities and the
ability to provide service to the entire continental United States (“CONUS”). We
have leased 100% of the capacity on Ciel II for a period of ten years.

Satellites under Construction

As of December 31, 2009, we had entered into the following contracts to construct new satellites
which are contractually scheduled to be completed within the next year.

•EchoStar XIV. During 2007, we entered into a contract for the construction of EchoStar
XIV, a DBS satellite, which was shipped from the manufacturer to the launch site and is
scheduled for launch in early 2010. This satellite has been designed with a combination of
full CONUS and spot beam capacity and could be used at multiple orbital locations.
EchoStar XIV will enable better bandwidth utilization, provide back-up protection for our
existing offerings, and could allow DISH Network to offer other value-added services.•EchoStar XV. During 2008, we entered into a contract for the construction of EchoStar
XV, a DBS satellite, which is expected to be completed in mid-2010. This satellite will
provide CONUS service and enable better bandwidth utilization, provide back-up protection
for our existing offerings, and could allow us to offer other value-added services.

In addition, we have agreed to lease capacity on two satellites from EchoStar that are currently
under construction.

•QuetzSat-1.During 2008, we entered into a ten-year transponder service agreement with
EchoStar to lease 24 DBS transponders on QuetzSat-1, a Mexican DBS satellite being
constructed by SES Latin America S.A. (“SES”). QuetzSat-1 is expected to be completed
during 2011 and operate at the 77 degree orbital location. Upon expiration of the initial
term, we have the option to renew the transponder service agreement on a year-to-year basis
through the end-of-life of the QuetzSat-1 satellite. Upon a launch failure, in-orbit
failure or end-of-life of the QuetzSat-1 satellite, and in certain other circumstances, we
have certain rights to receive service from EchoStar on a replacement satellite.
QuetzSat-1 will enable better bandwidth utilization, provide back-up protection for our
existing offerings, and could allow us to offer other value-added services.



•EchoStar XVI.During 2009, we entered into a ten-year transponder service agreement
with EchoStar to lease capacity on EchoStar XVI, a DBS satellite, which is expected to be
completed during 2012. EchoStar XVI will replace the satellites currently at the 61.5
degree orbital location and will allow us to offer other value-added services. We will lease certain satellite capacity from EchoStar on EchoStar XVI after its
service commencement date and this lease generally terminates upon the earlier of: (i) the
end-of-life or replacement of the satellite; (ii) the date the satellite fails; (iii) the date
the transponder(s) on which service is being provided under the agreement fails; or (iv) ten
years following the actual service commencement date. Upon expiration of the initial term, we
have the option to renew on a year-to-year basis through the end-of-life of the satellite.
There can be no assurance that any options to renew this agreement will be exercised.

Satellite Anomalies

Operation of our programming service requires that we have adequate satellite transmission capacity
for the programming we offer. Moreover, current competitive conditions require that we continue to
expand our offering of new programming, particularly by expanding local HD coverage and offering
more HD national channels. While





we generally have had in-orbit satellite capacity sufficient to transmit our existing channels and
some backup capacity to recover the transmission of certain critical programming, our backup
capacity is limited.

In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may need to acquire or lease
additional satellite capacity or relocate one of our other satellites and use it as a replacement
for the failed or lost satellite. Such a failure could result in a prolonged loss of critical
programming or a significant delay in our plans to expand programming as necessary to remain
competitive and thus may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

Prior to 2009, certain satellites in our fleet have experienced anomalies, some of which have had a
significant adverse impact on their remaining life and commercial operation. There can be no
assurance that future anomalies will not further impact the remaining life and commercial operation
of any of these satellites. See “Long-Lived Satellite Assets” below for further discussion of
evaluation of impairment and Note 7 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item
15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There can be no assurance that we can recover critical
transmission capacity in the event one or more of our in-orbit satellites were to fail. We do not
anticipate carrying insurance for any of the in-orbit satellites that we own, and we will bear the
risk associated with any in-orbit satellite failures. Recent developments with respect to our
satellites are discussed below.

Owned Satellites

EchoStar V.EchoStar V was originally designed with a minimum 12-year design life. Momentum wheel
failures in prior years, together with relocation of the satellite between orbital locations,
resulted in increased fuel consumption, as disclosed in previous SEC filings. During 2005, as a
result of this increased fuel consumption, we reduced the remaining estimated useful life of the
satellite and as of October 2008, the satellite was fully depreciated. In late July 2009, it was
determined that the satellite had less fuel remaining than previously estimated, therefore the
satellite was removed from the 148 degree orbital location and retired from commercial service on
August 3, 2009. This retirement did not have a material impact on the DISH Network service.

As a result of the retirement of EchoStar V, we currently do not have any satellites positioned at
the 148 degree orbital location. While we have requested a waiver from the FCC for the continued
use of this orbital location, there can be no assurance that the FCC will determine that our
proposed future use of this orbital location complies fully with all licensing requirements. If
the FCC decides to revoke this license, we may be required to write-off its $68 million carrying
value.

Leased Satellites

EchoStar III. EchoStar III was originally designed to operate a maximum of 32 DBS transponders in
CONUS mode at approximately 120 watts per channel, switchable to 16 transponders operating at over
230 watts per channel, and was equipped with a total of 44 traveling wave tube amplifiers (“TWTAs”)
to provide redundancy. As a result of TWTA failures in previous years and an additional pair of
TWTA failures during August 2009, only 14 transponders are currently available for use. Due to
redundancy switching limitations and specific channel authorizations, we are currently operating on
13 of our FCC authorized frequencies at the 61.5 degree orbital location. While the failures have
not impacted commercial operation of the satellite, it is likely that additional TWTA failures will
occur from time to time in the future and such failures could impact commercial operation of the
satellite.

EchoStar XII.Prior to 2009, EchoStar XII experienced anomalies resulting in the loss of
electrical power available from its solar arrays. During March and May 2009, EchoStar XII
experienced more of these anomalies, which further reduced the electrical power available to
operate EchoStar XII. We currently operate EchoStar XII in CONUS/spot beam hybrid mode. If we
continue to operate the satellite in this mode, as a result of this loss of electrical power, we
would be unable to use the full complement of its available transponders for the remaining useful
life of the satellite. However, since the number of useable transponders on EchoStar XII depends
on, among other things, whether EchoStar XII is operated in CONUS, spot beam, or hybrid CONUS/spot
beam mode, we are unable to determine at this time the actual number of transponders that will be
available at any given time or how many transponders can be used during the remaining estimated
life of the satellite.





Long-Lived Satellite Assets

We evaluate our satellite fleet for impairment as one asset group and test for recoverability
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be
recoverable. While certain of the anomalies discussed above, and previously disclosed, may be
considered to represent a significant adverse change in the physical condition of an individual
satellite, based on the redundancy designed within each satellite and considering the asset
grouping, these anomalies are not considered to be significant events that would require evaluation
for impairment recognition. Unless and until a specific satellite is abandoned or otherwise
determined to have no service potential, the net carrying amount related to the satellite would not
be written off.

GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS

We are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FCC for our domestic operations. We are also
regulated by other federal agencies, state and local authorities, the International
Telecommunication Union (“ITU”) and certain foreign governments. Depending upon the circumstances,
noncompliance with legislation or regulations promulgated by these entities could result in
suspension or revocation of our licenses or authorizations, the termination or loss of contracts or
the imposition of contractual damages, civil fines or criminal penalties.

The following summary of regulatory developments and legislation in the United States is not
intended to describe all present and proposed government regulation and legislation affecting the
satellite and video programming distribution industries. Government regulations that are currently
the subject of judicial or administrative proceedings, legislative hearings or administrative
proposals could change our industry to varying degrees. We cannot predict either the outcome of
these proceedings or any potential impact they might have on the industry or on our operations.

FCC Regulation under the Communications Act

FCC Jurisdiction over our Operations.The Communications Act gives the FCC broad authority to
regulate the operations of satellite companies. Specifically, the Communications Act gives the FCC
regulatory jurisdiction over the following areas relating to communications satellite operations:

•the assignment of satellite radio frequencies and orbital locations;•licensing of satellites, earth stations, the granting of related authorizations, and
evaluation of the fitness of a company to be a licensee;•approval for the relocation of satellites to different orbital locations or the
replacement of an existing satellite with a new satellite;•ensuring compliance with the terms and conditions of such assignments and
authorizations, including required timetables for construction and operation of satellites
and other due diligence requirements;•avoiding interference with other radio frequency emitters; and•ensuring compliance with other applicable provisions of the Communications Act and FCC
rules and regulations governing the operations of satellite communications providers and
multi-channel video distributors.

To obtain FCC satellite licenses and authorizations, satellite operators must satisfy strict legal,
technical and financial qualification requirements. Once issued, these licenses and authorizations
are subject to a number of conditions including, among other things, satisfaction of ongoing due
diligence obligations, construction milestones, and various reporting requirements.

Overview of Our Satellites and FCC Authorizations.Our satellites are located in orbital
positions, or slots, that are designated by their western longitude. An orbital position describes
both a physical location and an assignment of spectrum in the applicable frequency band. Each DBS
orbital position has 500 MHz of available Ku-band spectrum that is divided into 32 frequency
channels. Through digital compression technology, we can currently transmit between nine and 13
standard definition digital video channels per DBS frequency channel. Several of our satellites





also include spot-beam technology which enables us to increase the number of markets where we
provide local channels, but reduces the number of video channels that could otherwise be offered
across the entire United States.

The FCC has licensed us to operate a total of 82 DBS frequencies at the following orbital
locations:

•21 DBS frequencies at the 119 degree orbital location, capable of providing
service to CONUS;•29 DBS frequencies at the 110 degree orbital location, capable of providing
service to CONUS; and•32 DBS frequencies at the 148 degree orbital location, capable of providing
service to the Western United States.

We currently do not have any satellites positioned at the 148 degree orbital location as a result
of the retirement of EchoStar V. While we have requested a waiver from the FCC for the continued
use of this orbital location, there can be no assurance that the FCC will determine that our
proposed future use of this orbital location complies fully with all licensing requirements.

In addition, we currently lease or have entered into agreements to lease capacity on satellites
using the following spectrum at the following orbital locations:

•500 MHz of Ku-band FSS spectrum that is divided into 32 frequency channels (each
of which is capable of transmitting between five and eight standard definition
digital video channels) at the 118.7 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian
FSS slot that is capable of providing service to the United States, Alaska and
Hawaii;•32 DBS frequencies at the 129 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian DBS
slot that is capable of providing service to most of the United States;•32 DBS frequencies at the 61.5 degree orbital location, capable of providing
service to most of the United States;•24 DBS frequencies at the 77 degree orbital location, which is a Mexican DBS
slot that is capable of providing service to most of the United States and Mexico;
and•32 DBS frequencies at the 72.7 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian DBS
slot that is capable of providing service to the United States. We began receiving
service on 16 of these DBS transponders upon service commencement of the satellite
and will receive service on the remaining 16 DBS transponders over a phase-in
period that will be completed in 2012.

We also have occasional-use month-to-month FSS capacity available from EchoStar on satellites
located at the 85, 105 and 121 degree orbital location.

700 MHz Spectrum. In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless licenses,
which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009. To commercialize these licenses and satisfy
FCC build-out requirements, we will be required to make significant additional investments or
partner with others. Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization and build-out,
any such investment or partnership could vary significantly. Part or all of our licenses may be
terminated for failure to satisfy FCC build-out requirements. We are currently performing a market
test to evaluate different technologies and consumer acceptance.

Duration of our DBS Satellite Licenses. Generally speaking, all of our satellite licenses are
subject to expiration unless renewed by the FCC. The term of each of our DBS licenses is ten
years. Our licenses are currently set to expire at various times. In addition, our special
temporary authorizations are granted for periods of only 180 days or less, subject again to
possible renewal by the FCC.

Opposition and other Risks to our Licenses. Several third parties have opposed, and we expect them
to continue to oppose, some of our FCC satellite authorizations and pending requests to the FCC for
extensions, modifications, waivers and approvals of our licenses. In addition, we may not have
fully complied with all of the FCC reporting, filing and other requirements in connection with our
satellite authorizations. Consequently, it is possible the FCC could revoke, terminate, condition
or decline to extend or renew certain of our authorizations or licenses.





FCC Actions Affecting our Licenses and Applications. A number of our other applications have been
denied or dismissed without prejudice by the FCC, or remain pending. We cannot be sure that the
FCC will grant any of our outstanding applications, or that the authorizations, if granted, will
not be subject to onerous conditions. Moreover, the cost of building, launching and insuring a
satellite can be as much as $300 million or more, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to
construct and launch all of the satellites for which we have requested authorizations. The FCC has
also imposed a bond requirement for up to $3 million for each of our fixed satellite services
satellite licenses, all or part of which would be forfeited by a licensee that does not meet its
diligence milestones for a particular satellite.

4.5 Degree Spacing Tweener Satellites. The FCC has proposed to allow so-called “tweener” DBS
operations – DBS satellites operating from orbital locations 4.5 degrees (half of the usual nine
degrees) away from other DBS satellites. The FCC has already granted authorizations to Spectrum
Five and EchoStar for tweener satellites at the 114.5 and 86.5 degree orbital locations,
respectively. Certain tweener operations, as proposed, could cause harmful interference into our
service and constrain our future operations. The FCC has not completed its rulemaking on the
operating and service rules for tweener satellites.

Interference from Other Services Sharing Satellite Spectrum. The FCC has adopted rules that allow
non-geostationary orbit fixed satellite services to operate on a co-primary basis in the same
frequency band as DBS and Ku-band-based fixed satellite services. The FCC has also authorized the
use of terrestrial communication services (“MVDDS”) in the DBS band. MVDDS licenses were auctioned
in 2004. Despite regulatory provisions to protect DBS operations from harmful interference, there
can be no assurance that operations by other satellites or terrestrial communication services in
the DBS band will not interfere with our DBS operations and adversely affect our business.

International Satellite Competition and Interference. DirecTV has obtained FCC authority to
provide service to the United States from a Canadian DBS orbital slot, and EchoStar has obtained
authority to provide service to the United States from both a Mexican and a Canadian DBS orbital
slot. Further, we have also received authority to do the same from a Canadian DBS orbital slot at
129 degrees and a Canadian FSS orbital slot at 118.7 degrees. The possibility that the FCC will
allow service to the U.S. from additional foreign slots may permit additional competition against
us from other satellite providers. It may also provide a means by which to increase our available
satellite capacity in the United States. In addition, a number of administrations, such as Great
Britain and the Netherlands, have requested to add orbital locations serving the U.S. close to our
licensed slots. Such operations could cause harmful interference to our satellites and constrain
our future operations at those slots if such “tweener” operations are approved by the FCC.

Rules Relating to Broadcast Services. The FCC imposes different rules for “subscription” and
“broadcast” services. We believe that because we offer a subscription programming service, we are
not subject to many of the regulatory obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees. However, we
cannot be certain whether the FCC will find in the future that we must comply with regulatory
obligations as a broadcast licensee, and certain parties have requested that we be treated as a
broadcaster. If the FCC determines that we are a broadcast licensee, it could require us to comply
with all regulatory obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees, which are generally subject to
more burdensome regulation than subscription television service providers.

Public Interest Requirements. Under a requirement of the Cable Act, the FCC imposed public
interest requirements on DBS licensees. These rules require us to set aside four percent of our
channel capacity exclusively for noncommercial programming for which we must charge programmers
below-cost rates and for which we may not impose additional charges on subscribers. This could
displace programming for which we could earn commercial rates and could adversely affect our
financial results. We cannot be sure that if the FCC were to review our methodology for processing
public interest carriage requests, computing the channel capacity we must set aside or determining
the rates that we charge public interest programmers, it would find them in compliance with the
public interest requirements.

Plug and Play. The FCC has adopted the so-called “plug and play” standard for compatibility
between digital television sets and cable systems. That standard was developed through
negotiations involving the cable and consumer electronics industries, but not us. The FCC is
considering various proposals to establish two-way digital cable “plug and play” rules. That
proceeding also asks about means to incorporate all pay-TV providers into its





“plug and play” rules. The cable industry and consumer electronics companies have reached a
tru2way commercial agreement to resolve many of the outstanding issues in this docket. We cannot
predict whether the FCC will impose rules on our DBS operations that are based on cable system
architecture or the private cable/consumer electronics tru2way commercial arrangement. Complying
with the separate security and other “plug and play” requirements would require potentially costly
modifications to our set-top boxes and operations. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of this
FCC proceeding.

Digital HD Must Carry Requirement.We are subject to digital HD “carry-one-carry-all” requirements
that will cause capacity constraints. To provide any full-power local broadcast signal in any
market, we are required to retransmit all qualifying broadcast signals in that market
(“carry-one-carry-all”). The digital transition required all full-power broadcasters to cease
transmission using analog signals and switch over to digital signals by June 12, 2009. The switch
to digital provides broadcasters significantly greater capacity to provide high definition and
multicast programming. In March 2008, the FCC adopted new digital carriage rules that require DBS
providers to phase in carry-one-carry-all obligations with respect to the carriage of full-power
broadcasters’ HD signals by February 2013 in HD local markets. The carriage of additional HD
signals on our DBS system could cause us to experience significant capacity constraints and limit
the number of local markets that we can serve. Certain provisions of the Satellite Home Viewer
Extension and Reauthorization Act (“SHVERA”), which permits a satellite carrier to retransmit
distant television signals to subscribers for private home viewing and to commercial establishments
for a per subscriber fee, were set to expire on December 31, 2009, and are currently pending
reauthorization. We are uncertain about how the pending SHVERA reauthorization legislation may
affect carry-one-carry-all requirements, if at all.

In addition, the FCC is now considering whether to require DBS providers to carry broadcast
stations in both standard definition and high definition starting in 2010, in conjunction with the
phased-in HD “carry-one-carry-all” requirements adopted by the FCC. If we were required to carry
multiple versions of each broadcast station, we would have to dedicate more of our finite satellite
capacity to each broadcast station, which may force us to reduce the number of local markets served
and limit our ability to meet competitive needs. We cannot predict the outcome or timing of that
proceeding. We are also uncertain about how the pending SHVERA reauthorization legislation may
affect this requirement, if at all.

Retransmission Consent. SHVERA generally gives satellite companies a statutory copyright license
to retransmit local broadcast channels by satellite back into the market from which they
originated, subject to obtaining the retransmission consent of the local network station. If we
fail to reach retransmission consent agreements with broadcasters, we cannot carry their signals.
This could have an adverse effect on our strategy to compete with cable and other satellite
companies that provide local signals. While we have been able to reach retransmission consent
agreements with most local network stations in markets where we currently offer local channels by
satellite, roll-out of local channels in additional cities and in high definition will require that
we obtain additional retransmission agreements. We cannot be sure that we will secure these
agreements or that we will secure new agreements upon the expiration of our current retransmission
consent agreements, some of which are short-term. We are also uncertain about how the pending
SHVERA reauthorization legislation may affect these agreements, if at all.

Distant Signals. Due to a court injunction, we are unable to retransmit distant network signals to
otherwise eligible customers under the distant signal license of the Copyright Act of 1976, as
amended. DirecTV is not subject to that injunction and can use the license, which is currently set
to expire on February 28, 2010. This places us at a competitive disadvantage to DirecTV. We are
also uncertain about how the pending SHVERA reauthorization legislation may affect our and
DirecTV’s ability to retransmit distant network signals, if at all.

Dependence on Cable Act for Program Access. We purchase a large percentage of our programming from
cable-affiliated programmers. The provisions of the Cable Act of 1992, as amended, (“Cable Act”)
prohibiting exclusive contracting practices with cable affiliated programmers were extended for
another five-year period in September 2007. Cable companies have appealed the FCC’s decision and
oral argument was held before the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit (“D.C. Circuit”) in September 2009. We cannot predict the outcome or timing of that
litigation. Any change in the Cable Act and the FCC’s rules that permit the cable industry or
cable-affiliated programmers to discriminate against competing businesses, such as ours, in the
sale of programming could adversely affect our ability to acquire cable-affiliated programming at
all or to acquire





programming on a cost-effective basis. As a result, we may be limited in our ability to obtain
access on nondiscriminatory terms to programming from programmers that are affiliated with the
cable system operators.

In addition, affiliates of certain cable providers have denied us access to sports programming they
feed to their cable systems terrestrially, rather than by satellite. The FCC recently held that
new denials of such service are unfair if they have the purpose or effect of significantly
hindering us from providing programming to consumers. However, we cannot be sure that we can make
that showing, prevail in a complaint related to such programming, and gain access to it. Our
continuing failure to access such programming could materially and adversely affect our ability to
compete in regions serviced by these cable providers.

MDU Exclusivity. The FCC has found that cable companies should not be permitted to have exclusive
relationships with multiple dwelling units (e.g., apartment buildings). In May 2009, the D.C.
Circuit upheld the FCC’s decision. The FCC has now asked whether DBS and Private Cable Operators
(“PCOs”) should be prohibited from having similar relationships with multiple dwelling units. If
the cable exclusivity ban were to be extended to DBS providers, our ability to serve these types of
buildings and communities would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of
the FCC’s consideration of this proposal.

Net Neutrality and the National Broadband Plan. The FCC has initiated a proceeding where it has
proposed certain rules to safeguard the open nature of the Internet, including requirements of
nondiscrimination and transparency with respect to network management practices. The FCC is also
currently developing a national broadband plan to expand availability of broadband and encourage
adoption of that service. We cannot be sure whether these initiatives will result in burdens on us
such as the need to use our satellite capacity to comply with any additional mandates, or
contribution obligations.

Comcast/NBC Universal Transaction. Comcast and General Electric have agreed to join their
programming properties, including NBC, Bravo and many others, in a venture to be controlled by
Comcast. The transaction will require FCC and other governmental approvals before it can be
completed. This transaction may affect us adversely by, among other things, making it more
difficult for us to obtain access to the programming networks on nondiscriminatory and fair terms,
or at all. We cannot predict when or if the transaction will receive the requisite regulatory
approvals or if it will be appropriately conditioned to mitigate potential public interest harms.

The International Telecommunication Union

Our DBS system also must conform to the ITU broadcasting satellite service plan for Region 2 (which
includes the United States). If any of our operations are not consistent with this plan, the ITU
will only provide authorization on a non-interference basis pending successful modification of the
plan or the agreement of all affected administrations to the non-conforming operations.
Accordingly, unless and until the ITU modifies its broadcasting satellite service plan to include
the technical parameters of DBS applicants’ operations, our satellites, along with those of other
DBS operators, must not cause harmful electrical interference with other assignments that are in
conformance with the plan. Further, DBS satellites are not presently entitled to any protection
from other satellites that are in conformance with the plan.

Export Control Regulation

The delivery of satellites and related technical information for the purpose of launch by foreign
launch services providers is subject to strict export control and prior approval requirements.

Broadband Service Regulation

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) has allocated $7.2 billion to expand
access to broadband services. Of this amount, $2.5 billion is administered by the Rural Utilities
Service (“RUS”) for deployment of broadband projects in rural, unserved and underserved communities
across the United States and $4.7 billion has been allocated to the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration (“NTIA”) of the United States Department of Commerce to fund broadband
initiatives throughout the U.S, including unserved and underserved areas. Our application for
broadband stimulus funds in the first round was not granted. The agencies have announced a second
round of funding that will total several billion dollars. This will include a set-aside of a





minimum of $100 million for satellite projects. We are currently evaluating whether to submit an
application for funding and we cannot be sure if any such application will be granted, or that it
will be granted on acceptable terms. If our application is granted and we accept the terms of such
grant, we may become subject to certain regulations promulgated by the agencies.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and
other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that
we offer. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products infringes on
intellectual property held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those
products, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost, or
to redesign those products in such a way as to avoid infringing the patent claims. If those
intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to obtain the intellectual
property at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position.

We may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that our products may potentially infringe.
In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until the Patent and
Trademark Office either publishes the application or issues a patent (whichever arises first) and,
accordingly, our products may infringe claims contained in pending patent applications of which we
are not aware. Further, the process of determining definitively whether a claim of infringement is
valid often involves expensive and protracted litigation, even if we are ultimately successful on
the merits.

We cannot estimate the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain intellectual
property licenses or the availability and cost of any such licenses. Those costs, and their impact
on our results of operations, could be material. Damages in patent infringement cases may also be
trebled in certain circumstances. To the extent that we are required to pay unanticipated
royalties to third parties, these increased costs of doing business could negatively affect our
liquidity and operating results. We are currently defending multiple patent infringement actions.
We cannot be certain the courts will conclude these companies do not own the rights they claim,
that our products do not infringe on these rights, that we would be able to obtain licenses from
these persons on commercially reasonable terms or, if we were unable to obtain such licenses, that
we would be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and
occupational safety and health laws and regulations. These include laws regulating air emissions,
water discharge and waste management. We attempt to maintain compliance with all such
requirements. We do not expect capital or other expenditures for environmental compliance to be
material in 2010 or 2011. Environmental requirements are complex, change frequently and have
become more stringent over time. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that these requirements
will not change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

SEGMENT REPORTING DATA AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA

For operating segment and principal geographic area data for 2009, 2008 and 2007 see Note 15 in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

EMPLOYEES

We had approximately 24,500 employees at December 31, 2009, most of whom are located in the
United States. We generally consider relations with our employees to be good.

Approximately 170 employees in four of our field offices have voted to have a union represent them
in contract negotiations. While we are not currently a party to any collective bargaining
agreements, we are currently negotiating collective bargaining agreements at these offices.





WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and accordingly file our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy
statements and other information with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials filed
with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.
Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room. As an electronic filer, our public filings are also maintained on the SEC’s
Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website ishttp://www.sec.gov.

WEBSITE ACCESS

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange
Act also may be accessed free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after
we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. The address of that
website ishttp://www.dishnetwork.com.

We have adopted a written code of ethics that applies to all of our directors, officers and
employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance
with Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Our code of ethics is available on our corporate website athttp://www.dishnetwork.com.
In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers of, the provisions of this code of ethics
that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events on our website.





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT(furnished in accordance with Item 401 (b) of Regulation S-K, pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K)

The following table sets forth the name, age and position with DISH Network of each of our
executive officers, the period during which each executive officer has served as such, and each
executive officer’s business experience during the past five years:

NameAgePositionCharles W. Ergen57Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorW. Erik Carlson40Executive Vice President, OperationsThomas A. Cullen50Executive Vice President, Programming, Sales and MarketingJames DeFranco57Executive Vice President and DirectorR. Stanton Dodge42Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryBernard L. Han45Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerMichael Kelly48Executive Vice President, Commercial and Business DevelopmentRoger J. Lynch47Executive Vice President, Advanced TechnologiesRobert E. Olson50Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerStephen W. Wood51Executive Vice President, Human Resources

Charles W. Ergen.Mr. Ergen has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive
Officer of DISH Network since its formation and, during the past five years, has held various
executive officer and director positions with DISH Network’s subsidiaries. Mr. Ergen also serves
as Chairman of EchoStar. Mr. Ergen was appointed President of DISH Network in February 2008. Mr.
Ergen, along with his spouse, Cantey Ergen, and James DeFranco, was a co-founder of DISH Network in
1980.

W. Erik Carlson.Mr. Carlson has served as our Executive Vice President, Operations since February
2008 and is responsible for overseeing our residential and commercial installations, customer
billing and equipment retrieval and refurbishment operations. Mr. Carlson previously was Senior
Vice President of Retail Services, a position he held since mid-2006. He joined DISH Network in
1995 and has held progressively larger operating roles over the years.

Thomas
A. Cullen.Mr.  Cullen has served as our Executive Vice President, Programming,
Sales and Marketing since April 2009. Mr. Cullen served as our Executive Vice President, Corporate
Development from December 2006 until April 2009. Before joining DISH Network, Mr. Cullen served as
President of TensorComm, a venture-backed wireless technology company. From August 2003 to April
2005, Mr. Cullen was with Charter Communications Inc. (“Charter”), serving as Senior Vice
President, Advanced Services and Business Development from August 2003 until he was promoted to
Executive Vice President in August 2004.

James DeFranco.Mr. DeFranco is one of our Executive Vice Presidents and has been one of
our vice presidents and a member of the Board of Directors since our formation. During the past
five years he has held various executive officer and director positions with our subsidiaries. Mr.
DeFranco co-founded DISH Network with Charles W. Ergen and Mr. Ergen’s spouse, Cantey Ergen, in
1980.

R. Stanton Dodge.Mr. Dodge has served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary of DISH Network since June 2007 and is responsible for all legal and government affairs
for DISH Network and its subsidiaries. Mr. Dodge also serves as EchoStar’s Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary and is responsible for all legal and government affairs of
EchoStar and its subsidiaries pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and
EchoStar that was entered into in connection with the Spin-off of EchoStar from DISH Network.
Since joining DISH Network in November 1996, he has held various positions of increasing
responsibility in DISH Network’s legal department, and assumed responsibility for Human Resources
in January 2010.

Bernard L. Han.Mr. Han has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer since April 2009 and is in charge of operations, information technology, accounting and
finance functions of DISH Network.





Mr. Han served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of DISH Network from September
2006 until April 2009. Mr. Han also serves as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and EchoStar
that was entered into in connection with the Spin-off of EchoStar from DISH Network. From October
2002 to May 2005, Mr. Han served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Northwest Airlines, Inc.

Michael Kelly.Mr. Kelly is currently the Executive Vice President, Commercial and Business
Development. Mr. Kelly served as the Executive Vice President of DISH Network Service L.L.C. and
Customer Service from February 2004 until December 2005.

Roger J. Lynch.Mr. Lynch has served as our Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies since
November 2009. Mr. Lynch also serves as Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies at
EchoStar. Prior to joining DISH Network, Mr. Lynch served as Chairman and CEO of Video Networks
International, Ltd., an IPTV technology company in the United Kingdom from 2002 until 2009.

Robert E. Olson.Mr. Olson has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
since April 2009. Mr. Olson was the Chief Financial Officer of Trane Commercial Systems, the
largest operating division of American Standard, from April 2006 to August 2008. From April 2003
to January 2006 Mr. Olson served as the Chief Financial Officer of AT&T’s Consumer Services
division and later its Business Services division.

Stephen W. Wood.Mr. Wood has served as our Executive Vice President, Human Resources
since May 2006 and is responsible for all human resource functions of DISH Network and its
subsidiaries. Prior to joining DISH Network, Mr. Wood served as an Executive Vice President for
Gate Gourmet International from 2004 to 2006.

There are no arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and any other person
pursuant to which any executive officer was selected as such. Pursuant to the Bylaws of DISH
Network, executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



