Item 1.BUSINESS



OVERVIEW



DISH Network Corporation was organized in 1995 as a corporation under the laws of the State of Nevada.  We started offering the DISH®branded pay-TV service in March 1996 and are the nation’s third largest pay-TV provider.  Our common stock is publicly traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “DISH.”  Our principal executive offices are located at 9601 South Meridian Boulevard, Englewood, Colorado 80112 and our telephone number is (303) 723-1000.



DISH Network Corporation is a holding company.  Its subsidiaries (which together with DISH Network Corporation are referred to as “DISH Network,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and/or “our,” unless otherwise required by the context) operate two primary business segments.



·DISH.The DISH branded pay-TV service (“DISH”) had 13.978 million subscribers in the United States as of December 31, 2014.  The DISH branded pay-TV service consists of, among other things, Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) licenses authorizing us to use direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) and Fixed Satellite Service (“FSS”) spectrum, our owned and leased satellites, receiver systems, third-party broadcast operations, customer service facilities, a leased fiber optic network, in-home service and call center operations, and certain other assets utilized in our operations.  In addition, we market broadband services under the dishNET™ brand, which had 0.577 million subscribers in the United States as of December 31, 2014.  This service utilizes advanced technology and high-powered satellites launched by Hughes Communications, Inc. (“Hughes”) and ViaSat, Inc. (“ViaSat”) to provide broadband coverage nationwide.  This service primarily targets rural residents that are underserved, or unserved, by wireline broadband.  In addition to the dishNET branded satellite broadband service, we also offer wireline voice and broadband services under the dishNET brand as a competitive local exchange carrier to consumers living in a 14-state region in the western United States.  We primarily bundle our dishNET branded services with our DISH branded pay-TV service.



·Wireless



·DISH Spectrum.We have invested over $5.0 billion since 2008 to acquire certain wireless spectrum licenses and related assets.  These wireless spectrum licenses are subject to certain interim and final build-out requirements.  As we review our options for the commercialization of our wireless spectrum, we may incur significant additional expenses and may have to make significant investments related to, among other things, research and development, wireless testing and wireless network infrastructure, as well as the acquisition of additional wireless spectrum.



·AWS-3 Auction.On February 13, 2015, Northstar Wireless, LLC (“Northstar Wireless”) and SNR Wireless LicenseCo, LLC (“SNR Wireless”) each filed applications with the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) to acquire certain AWS-3 wireless spectrum licenses (the “AWS-3 Licenses”) that were made available in the auction designated by the FCC as Auction 97 (the “AWS-3 Auction”) for which it was named as winning bidder and had made the required down payments.  Issuance of any AWS-3 licenses to Northstar Wireless or SNR Wireless depends, among other things, upon the FCC’s review and approval of the applications filed by Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless.  We cannot predict the timing or the outcome of the FCC’s review of those applications.  We own an 85% non-controlling interest in each of Northstar Spectrum, LLC (“Northstar Spectrum”) and SNR Wireless Holdco, LLC (“SNR Holdco”), the parent companies of Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless, respectively.  After Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless have made the final payments to the FCC for the AWS-3 Licenses, our total non-controlling equity and debt investments in these entities and their parent companies, respectively, will be approximately $9.778 billion.  As of December 31, 2014, Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless had made aggregate refundable upfront payments to the FCC of approximately $920 million for











the AWS-3 Auction,at which time our total non-controlling equity and debt investments in these entities and their parent companies, respectively, was approximately $899 million.Under the applicable accounting guidance in Accounting Standards Codification 810, Consolidation (“ASC 810”), Northstar Spectrum and SNR Holdco are considered variable interest entities and, based on the characteristics of the structure of these entities and in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance, we have consolidated these entities into our financial statements beginning in the fourth quarter 2014.



In the event that the FCC grants the Northstar Licenses and the SNR Licenses, we may need to make significant additional loans to the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities, or they may need to partner with others, so that the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities may commercialize, build-out and integrate the Northstar Licenses and the SNR Licenses, and comply with regulations applicable to the Northstar Licenses and the SNR Licenses.  Depending upon the nature and scope of such commercialization, build-out, integration efforts, and regulatory compliance, any such loans or partnerships could vary significantly.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a profitable return on our non-controlling investments in the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities.



See Note 16 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.



Business Strategy



Our business strategy is to be the best provider of video services in the United States by providing products with the best technology, outstanding customer service, and great value.  We promote DISH branded programming packages as providing our subscribers with a better “price-to-value” relationship than those available from other subscription television service providers.  We believe that there continues to be unsatisfied demand for high-quality, reasonably priced subscription television services.



·Products with the Best Technology.We offer a wide selection of local and national high-definition (“HD”) programming and are a technology leader in our industry, offering award-winning DVRs (including our Hopper®whole-home HD DVR), multiple tuner receivers, 1080p video on demand, and external hard drives.  In addition, on February 9, 2015, we launched Sling TV, a live, over-the-top (“OTT”) Internet-based television service.



·Outstanding Customer Service.We strive to provide outstanding customer service by improving the quality of the initial installation of subscriber equipment, improving the reliability of our equipment, better educating our customers about our products and services, and resolving customer problems promptly and effectively when they arise.



·Great Value.We have historically been viewed as the low-cost provider in the pay-TV industry in the U.S. because we seek to offer the lowest everyday prices available to consumers after introductory promotions expire.



DISH Products and Services



Pay-TV Programming.We offer a wide selection of video services under the DISH brand, with access to hundreds of channels depending on the level of subscription.  Our standard programming packages generally include programming provided by national broadcast networks, local broadcast networks and national and regional cable networks.  We also offer programming packages that include regional and specialty sports channels, premium movie channels and Latino and international programming.  Our Latino and international programming packages allow subscribers to choose from over 250 channels in 28 languages.



In addition, we offer our DISH subscribers streaming access through Blockbuster @HomeTMto more than 10,000 movies and TV shows via their TV or Internet-connected tablets, smartphones and computers.











Our subscribers also have the ability to use dishanywhere.com and our mobile applications for smartphones and tablets to view authorized content, search program listings and remotely control certain features of their DVRs.  Dishanywhere.com and our mobile applications provide access to more than 80,000 movies, television shows, clips and trailers.



Technology.Our subscribers receive programming via equipment that includes a small satellite dish, digital set-top receivers, and remote controls.  To differentiate ourselves from our competitors, we introduced the Hopper whole-home DVR during 2012 and have continued to add functionality and simplicity for a more intuitive user experience.  Our current generation Hopper and Joey®whole-home DVR promotes a suite of integrated features and functionality designed to maximize the convenience and ease of watching TV anytime and anywhere.  It also has several innovative features that a consumer can use, at his or her option, to watch and record television programming, including recording up to eight shows at a time, through Internet-connected tablets, smartphones and computers.  During January 2015, we announced certain upcoming technological advancements including 4K Ultra HD capable receivers, a new remote control and user interface with advanced voice command capability, and more mobile applications.



We rely on EchoStar Corporation (“EchoStar”) to design and manufacture substantially all of our new receivers and certain related components.  See “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”



Broadband.In addition to our wide selection of pay-TV programming and award-winning technology, we market a satellite broadband service under the dishNET brand.  This service leverages advanced technology and high-powered satellites launched by Hughes and ViaSat to provide broadband coverage nationwide.  This service primarily targets rural residents that are underserved, or unserved, by wireline broadband, and provides download speeds of up to 15 megabits of data per second (“Mbps”).  We lease the customer premise equipment to subscribers and generally pay Hughes and ViaSat a wholesale rate per subscriber on a monthly basis.  Currently, we generally utilize our existing DISH distribution channels, including our DISH direct sales channels, under similar incentive arrangements as our DISH branded pay-TV business to acquire new broadband subscribers.



In addition to the dishNET branded satellite broadband service, we also offer wireline voice and broadband services under the dishNET brand as a competitive local exchange carrier to consumers living in a 14-state region (Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wyoming).  Our dishNET branded wireline broadband service provides download speeds of up to 20 Mbps.



We primarily bundle our dishNET branded services with our DISH branded pay-TV service, to offer customers a single bill, payment and customer service option, which includes a discount for bundled services.  In addition, we market and sell our dishNET branded services on a stand-alone basis.



New Business Opportunities



From time to time we evaluate opportunities for strategic investments or acquisitions that may complement our current services and products, enhance our technical capabilities, improve or sustain our competitive position, or otherwise offer growth opportunities.



Over-the-top television.  On February 9, 2015, we launched Sling TV, a live, linear streaming OTT service.  At launch, the core package consisted of over 14 channels offered for a $20 monthly subscription.  In addition to the core programming package, Sling TV offers additional tiers of programming, including news and children’s programming, each for an additional monthly fee, as well as a video on-demand programming library.  We expect to expand the programming content offered by Sling TV during 2015.  Sling TV requires an Internet connection and is available through certain streaming-capable devices.



Prior to the launch of Sling TV, we offered, and continue to offer, an international video programming OTT service to a small number of Pay-TV subscribers under the DishWorld brand.  As of December 31, 2014, our DishWorld subscribers are included in our Pay-TV subscriber count and represent a small percentage of our customers.  We market our OTT services primarily to consumers who do not subscribe to traditional satellite and cable pay-TV services.











Content Delivery



Digital Broadcast Operations Centers.The principal digital broadcast operations facilities that we use are EchoStar’s facilities located in Cheyenne, Wyoming and Gilbert, Arizona.  We also use seven regional digital broadcast operations facilities owned and operated by EchoStar that allow us to maximize the use of the spot beam capabilities of certain satellites.  Programming content is delivered to these facilities by fiber or satellite and processed, compressed, encrypted and then uplinked to satellites for delivery to consumers.  EchoStar provides certain broadcast services to us, including teleport services such as transmission and downlinking, channel origination services, and channel management services pursuant to a broadcast agreement that expires on December 31, 2016.  See Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our Related Party Transactions with EchoStar.



Satellites.Our DISH branded programming is primarily delivered to customers using satellites that operate in the “Ku” band portion of the microwave radio spectrum.  The Ku-band is divided into two spectrum segments.  The portion of the Ku-band that allows the use of higher power satellites (12.2 to 12.7 GHz over the United States) is known as the Broadcast Satellite Service band, which is also referred to as the DBS band.  The portion of the Ku-band that utilizes lower power satellites (11.7 to 12.2 GHz over the United States) is known as the FSS band.



Most of our programming is currently delivered using DBS satellites.  To accommodate more bandwidth-intensive HD programming and other needs, we continue to explore opportunities to expand our satellite capacity through the acquisition of additional spectrum, the launching of more technologically advanced satellites, and the more efficient use of existing spectrum via, among other things, better modulation and compression technologies.



We own or lease capacity on 14 DBS satellites in geostationary orbit approximately 22,300 miles above the equator.  For further information concerning these satellites and satellite anomalies, please see the table and discussion under“Satellites”below.



Conditional Access System.Our conditional access system secures our programming content using encryption so that only authorized customers can access our programming.  We use microchips embedded in credit card-sized access cards, called “smart cards,” or security chips in our receiver systems to control access to authorized programming content (“Security Access Devices”).



Our signal encryption has been compromised in the past and may be compromised in the future even though we continue to respond with significant investment in security measures, such as Security Access Device replacement programs and updates in security software, that are intended to make signal theft more difficult.  It has been our prior experience that security measures may only be effective for short periods of time or not at all and that we remain susceptible to additional signal theft.  We expect that future replacements of our Security Access Devices will be necessary to keep our system secure.  We cannot ensure that we will be successful in reducing or controlling theft of our programming content and we may incur additional costs in the future if our system’s security is compromised.



Distribution Channels



While we offer receiver systems and programming through direct sales channels, a significant percentage of our gross new subscriber activations are generated through independent third parties such as small satellite retailers, direct marketing groups, local and regional consumer electronics stores, nationwide retailers, and telecommunications companies.  In general, we pay these independent third parties a mix of upfront and monthly incentives to solicit orders for our services and provide customer service.  In addition, we partner with certain telecommunications companies to bundle DISH branded programming with broadband and/or voice services on a single bill.



Competition



As of December 31, 2014, we had 13.978 million pay-TV subscribers, representing approximately 14% of pay-TV subscribers in the United States, and 0.577 million broadband subscribers.  We face substantial competition from











established pay-TV providers and broadband service providers and increasing competition from companies providing/facilitating the delivery of video content via the Internet to computers, televisions, and mobile devices.  As of September 30, 2014, roughly 100 million U.S. households subscribe to a pay-TV service.



·



Other Direct Broadcast Satellite Operators



·



Cable Television Companies.



·Telecommunications Companies.  Large telecommunications companies have upgraded older copper wire lines with fiber optic lines in certain markets.  These fiber optic lines provide high capacity bandwidth, enabling telecommunications companies to offer video content that can be bundled with their broadband Internet access and voice services.  In particular, AT&T and Verizon Communications Inc. (“Verizon”) have built fiber-optic based networks to provide video services in substantial portions of their service areas.  As of September 30, 2014, AT&T and Verizon had approximately 6.1 million U-verse and 5.5 million FiOS TV subscribers, respectively.  These telecommunications companies represent approximately 12% of pay-TV subscribers.



·Internet Delivered Video.We face competition from content providers and other companies including, among others, Netflix, Hulu, Apple, Amazon and Google, who distribute video directly to consumers over the Internet.  In addition, programming offered over the Internet has become more prevalent and consumers are spending an increasing amount of time accessing video content via the Internet on their mobile devices.  Significant changes in consumer behavior with regard to the means by which they obtain video entertainment and information in response to digital media competition could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or otherwise disrupt our business.  In particular,











consumers have shown increased interest in viewing certain video programming in any place, at any time and/or on any broadband-connected device they choose.



·Wireless Mobile Video.We may also face increasing competition from wireless telecommunications providers who offer mobile video offerings.  These mobile video offerings will likely become more prevalent in the marketplace as wireless telecommunications providers implement and expand the fourth generation of wireless communications.



·Small and Rural Telephone Companies and Google Fiber.Other telephone companies are also finding ways to deliver video programming services over their wireline facilities or in a bundle with other MVPD providers.  For example, DirecTV has agreements with AT&T, CenturyLink, Exede, Cincinnati Bell, HughesNet, Windstream, Verizon and Mediacom to bundle their individual DSL or satellite broadband and telephony services with DirecTV’s video service.  Google has also deployed its own fiber network in the Kansas City metro area, Provo, Utah as well as Austin, Texas, with speeds up to one gigabit.  Google has recently announced plans to deploy fiber networks in additional metro areas across the country.



Acquisition of New Subscribers



We incur significant upfront costs to acquire subscribers, including advertising, retailer incentives, equipment, installation services and new customer promotions.  Certain customer promotions to acquire new subscribers result in less programming revenue to us over the promotional period.  While we attempt to recoup these upfront costs over the lives of their subscriptions, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving that objective.  We employ business rules such as minimum credit requirements for prospective customers and contractual commitments, and we strive to provide outstanding customer service, to increase the likelihood of customers keeping their DISH service over longer periods of time.  Our subscriber acquisition costs may vary significantly from period to period.



Advertising.We use print, radio, television and Internet media, on a local and national basis to motivate potential subscribers to call DISH, visit our website or contact independent third-party retailers.



Retailer Incentives.In general, we pay retailers an upfront incentive for each new subscriber they bring to DISH that results in the activation of qualified programming and generally pay retailers small monthly incentives for up to 60 months; provided, among other things:  (i) the retailer continuously markets, promotes and solicits orders for DISH products and services; (ii) the retailer continuously provides customer service to our Pay-TV subscribers; and (iii) the customer continuously subscribes to qualified programming.



Equipment.We incur significant upfront costs to provide our new subscribers with in-home equipment, including advanced HD and DVR receivers, which most of our new subscribers lease from us.  While we seek to recoup these upfront equipment costs mostly through monthly fees, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving that objective.  In addition, upon deactivation of a subscriber we may refurbish and redeploy their equipment which lowers future upfront costs.  However, our ability to capitalize on these cost savings may be limited as technological advances and consumer demand for new features may render the returned equipment obsolete.



Installation Services.Weincur significant upfront costs to install satellite dishes and receivers in the homes of our new customers.



New Customer Promotions.We often offer programming at no additional charge and/or promotional pricing during introductory periods for new subscribers.  While such promotional activities have an economic cost and reduce our subscriber-related revenue, they are not included in our definitions of subscriber acquisition costs or the Pay-TV SAC metric.



Customer Retention



We incur significant costs to retain our existing customers, mostly by upgrading their equipment to HD and DVR receivers and by providing retention credits.  As with our subscriber acquisition costs, our retention upgrade spending includes the cost of equipment and installation services.  In certain circumstances, we also offer











programming at no additional charge and/or promotional pricing for limited periods for existing customers in exchange for a contractual commitment to receive service for a minimum term.  A component of our retention efforts includes the re-installation of equipment for customers who move.  Our subscriber retention costs may vary significantly from period to period.



Customer Service



Customer Service Centers.We use both internally-operated and outsourced customer service centers to handle calls from prospective and existing customers.  We strive to answer customer calls promptly and to resolve issues effectively on the first call.  We also use the Internet and other applications to provide our customers with self-service capabilities.



Installation and Other In-Home Service Operations.  High-quality installations, upgrades, and in-home repairs are critical to providing good customer service.  Such in-home service is performed by both DISH Network employees and a network of independent contractors and includes, among other things, priority technical support, replacement equipment, cabling and power surge repairs.



Subscriber Management.We presently use, and depend on, CSG Systems International, Inc.’s software system for the majority of DISH Network subscriber billing and related functions.



Wireless Spectrum



DISH Spectrum



We have invested over $5.0 billion since 2008 to acquire certain wireless spectrum licenses and related assets.



700 MHz Licenses.  In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless spectrum licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009.  At the time they were granted, these licenses were subject to certain interim and final build-out requirements.  By June 2013, we were required to provide signal coverage and offer service to at least 35% of the geographic area in each area covered by each individual license (the “700 MHz Interim Build-Out Requirement”).  By June 2019, we were required to provide signal coverage and offer service to at least 70% of the geographic area in each area covered by each individual license (the “700 MHz Final Build-Out Requirement”).  As discussed below, these requirements have since been modified by the FCC.





AWS-4 Licenses.  On March 2, 2012, the FCC approved the transfer of 40 MHz of wireless spectrum licenses held by DBSD North America, Inc. (“DBSD North America”) and TerreStar Networks, Inc. (“TerreStar”) to us.  On March 9, 2012, we completed the acquisitions of 100% of the equity of reorganized DBSD North America and substantially all of the assets of TerreStar, pursuant to which we acquired, among other things, certain satellite assets and 40 MHz of spectrum licenses held by DBSD North America (the “DBSD Transaction”) and TerreStar (the











“TerreStar Transaction”), which licenses the FCC modified in March 2013 to add AWS-4 authority (“AWS-4”).  The total consideration to acquire the DBSD North America and TerreStar assets was approximately $2.860 billion.





On December 20, 2013, the FCC issued a further order that, among other things, extended the AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement by one year to March 2021 (the “Modified AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement”).  If we fail to meet the AWS-4 Interim Build-Out Requirement, the Modified AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement may be accelerated by one year, from March 2021 to March 2020.  If we fail to meet the Modified AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement, our terrestrial authorization for each license area in which we fail to meet the requirement may terminate.  The FCC’s December 20, 2013 order also conditionally waived certain FCC rules for our AWS-4 licenses to allow us to repurpose all 20 MHz of our uplink spectrum (2000-2020 MHz) for downlink (the “AWS-4 Downlink Waiver”).  If we fail to notify the FCC that we intend to use our uplink spectrum for downlink by June 20, 2016, the AWS-4 Downlink Waiver will terminate, and the Modified AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement will revert back to the AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement.



H Block Licenses.











Commercialization of Our Wireless Spectrum Licenses and Related Assets.  We have made substantial investments to acquire certain wireless spectrum licenses and related assets.  We may also determine that additional wireless spectrum licenses may be required to commercialize our wireless business and to compete with other wireless service providers.  We will need to make significant additional investments or partner with others to, among other things, commercialize, build-out, and integrate these licenses and related assets, and any additional acquired licenses and related assets; and comply with regulations applicable to such licenses.  Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization, build-out, integration efforts, and regulatory compliance, any such investments or partnerships could vary significantly.  We may need to raise significant additional capital in the future to fund these efforts, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on these wireless spectrum licenses or that we will be able to profitably deploy the assets represented by these wireless spectrum licenses, which may affect the carrying value of these assets and our future financial condition or results of operations.



AWS-3 Auction



The AWS-3 Auction commenced on November 13, 2014 and concluded on January 29, 2015.  The FCC’s prohibition on certain communications related to the AWS-3 Auction expired on February 13, 2015.  Also, on February 13, 2015, Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless each filed applications with the FCC to acquire certain AWS-3 Licenses for which it was named as winning bidder and had made the required down payments.  Each of Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless has applied as a Designated Entity that is entitled to receive a bidding credit of 25% in the AWS-3 Auction, as defined by FCC regulations.





SNR Wireless was the winning bidder for certain AWS-3 Licenses (the “SNR Licenses”) with gross winning bids totaling approximately $5.482 billion, which after taking into account a 25% bidding credit, equals net winning bids totaling approximately $4.112 billion.  In addition to the net winning bids, SNR Wireless is obligated to make a bid withdrawal payment of approximately $8 million to the FCC.  SNR Wireless is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SNR Holdco.  Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, American AWS-3 Wireless III L.L.C. (“American III”), we own an 85% non-controlling interest in SNR Holdco.  SNR Wireless Management, LLC (“SNR Management” and collectively with SNR Holdco and SNR Wireless, the “SNR Entities”) owns a 15% controlling interest in, and is the sole manager of, SNR Holdco.  SNR Holdco is governed by a limited liability company agreement by and between American III and SNR Management (the “SNR Holdco LLC Agreement”).  Pursuant to the SNR Holdco LLC Agreement, American III and SNR Management agreed to make pro-rata equity contributions in SNR Holdco equal











to approximately 15% of the net purchase price of the SNR Licenses.  American III also entered into a Credit Agreement by and among American III, as Lender, SNR Wireless, as Borrower, and SNR Holdco, as Guarantor (the “SNR Credit Agreement”).  Pursuant to the SNR Credit Agreement, American III agreed to make loans to SNR Wireless for the amount of the bid withdrawal payment and approximately 85% of the net purchase price of the SNR Licenses.  American III made equity contributions to SNR Holdco of approximately $408 million and a loan to SNR Wireless of approximately $350 million for SNR Wireless to make the upfront payment for the AWS-3 Auction and the down payment required for the SNR Licenses.  American III is also required to make an equity contribution to SNR Holdco of approximately $116 million and a loan to SNR Wireless of approximately $3.153 billion for SNR Wireless to make the final payment required for the SNR Licenses, which is due to the FCC by March 2, 2015.  Consequently, as of March 2, 2015, the total equity contributions from American III to SNR Holdco will be approximately $524 million and the total loans from American III to SNR Wireless will be approximately $3.503 billion.



After Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless have made the final payments to the FCC for the Northstar Licenses and the SNR Licenses, respectively, our total non-controlling equity and debt investments in the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities will be approximately $9.778 billion.  We have funded and will fund these investments from existing cash and marketable investment securities.  Such funding has included and will include $899 million in total equity and debt investments in the Northstar Entities and SNR Entities during the fourth quarter 2014, cash and marketable investment securities as of December 31, 2014, cash generated from operations during 2015, and a $400 million refund from the FCC to one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries related to the AWS-3 Auction.  Issuance of any AWS-3 Licenses to Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless depends, among other things, upon the FCC’s review and approval of the applications filed by Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless.  Objections to the applications filed by Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless must be submitted to the FCC within ten calendar days following the release by the FCC of the public notice listing the applications acceptable for filing.  We cannot predict the timing or the outcome of the FCC’s review of the applications filed by Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless.



In the event that the FCC grants the Northstar Licenses and the SNR Licenses, we may need to make significant additional loans to the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities, or they may need to partner with others, so that the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities may commercialize, build-out and integrate the Northstar Licenses and the SNR Licenses, and comply with regulations applicable to the Northstar Licenses and the SNR Licenses.  Depending upon the nature and scope of such commercialization, build-out, integration efforts, and regulatory compliance, any such loans or partnerships could vary significantly.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a profitable return on our non-controlling investments in the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities.



See “Item 1A. Risk Factors-We face certain risks related to our non-controlling investments in the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition”in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.



Relationship with EchoStar



On January 1, 2008, we completed the distribution of our technology and set-top box business and certain infrastructure assets (the “Spin-off”) into a separate publicly-traded company, EchoStar.  DISH Network and EchoStar operate as separate publicly-traded companies and, except for the Satellite and Tracking Stock Transaction and Sling TV discussed in Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, neither entity has any ownership interest in the other.  However, a substantial majority of the voting power of the shares of both DISH Network and EchoStar is owned beneficially by Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, and by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family.  EchoStar is our primary supplier of digital set-top boxes and digital broadcast operations.  In addition, EchoStar provides the vast majority of our transponder capacity, is a key supplier of related services to us, and provides the IPTV streaming technology for our OTT services.  Furthermore, Hughes, a subsidiary of EchoStar, is currently a wholesale provider of our satellite broadband Internet service, which we distribute under our dishNET™ brand.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors”and Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.











Discontinued Operations



On April 26, 2011, we completed the acquisition of most of the assets of Blockbuster, Inc.  As of December 31, 2013, Blockbuster had ceased material operations.  The results of Blockbuster are presented for all periods as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements.  On January 14, 2014, we completed the sale of our Blockbuster operations in Mexico.



SATELLITES



DBS Satellites.  Most of our programming is currently delivered using DBS satellites.  We continue to explore opportunities to expand our available satellite capacity through the use of other available spectrum.  Increasing our available spectrum is particularly important as more bandwidth intensive HD programming is produced and to address new video and data applications consumers may desire in the future.  We currently utilize satellites in geostationary orbit approximately 22,300 miles above the equator detailed in the table below.



EstimatedUseful Life(Years) /DegreeLeaseLaunchOrbitalTerminationSatellitesDateLocationDateOwned:EchoStar   XV (1)July 20104515Under Construction:EchoStar   XVIII (2)201511015Leased from EchoStar (1):EchoStar   I (3)(4)December 199577November 2015EchoStar   VII (3)(4)February 2002119June 2016EchoStar   VIIIAugust 200277Month to monthEchoStar   IXAugust 2003121Month to monthEchoStar   X (3)(4)February 2006110February 2021EchoStar   XI (3)(4)July 2008110September 2021EchoStar   XII (3)July 200361.5September 2017EchoStar   XIV (3)(4)March 2010119February 2023EchoStar   XVI (5)November 201261.5January 2017Nimiq   5September 200972.7September 2019QuetzSat-1September 201177November 2021Leased from Other Third Party:Anik   F3April 2007118.7April 2022Ciel   IIDecember 2008129January 2019





(1)See   Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual   Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our Related Party   Transactions with EchoStar.(2)EchoStar   XVIII is expected to launch during the fourth quarter 2015.(3)We   generally have the option to renew each lease on a year-to-year basis through   the end of the respective satellite’s useful life.(4)On   February 20, 2014, we entered into the Satellite and Tracking Stock   Transaction with EchoStar pursuant to which, among other things, we   transferred these satellites to EchoStar and lease back all available   capacity on these satellites. See Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated   Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further   discussion.(5)We   have the option to renew this lease for an additional six-year period. If we   exercise our six-year renewal option, we have the option to renew this lease   for an additional five years.











Satellites Under Construction



EchoStar XVIII.  On September 7, 2012, we entered into a contract with Space Systems/Loral, Inc. (“SS/L”) for the construction of EchoStar XVIII, a DBS satellite with spot beam technology designed for, among other things, HD programming.  During October 2013, we entered into an agreement with ArianeSpace S.A. (“Ariane”) for launch services for this satellite, which is expected to be launched during the fourth quarter 2015.



Satellite Anomalies



Operation of our DISH branded pay-TV service requires that we have adequate satellite transmission capacity for the programming that we offer.  Moreover, current competitive conditions require that we continue to expand our offering of new programming.  While we generally have had in-orbit satellite capacity sufficient to transmit our existing channels and some backup capacity to recover the transmission of certain critical programming, our backup capacity is limited.



In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may need to acquire or lease additional satellite capacity or relocate one of our other satellites and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite.  Such a failure could result in a prolonged loss of critical programming or a significant delay in our plans to expand programming as necessary to remain competitive and thus may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



In the past, certain of our satellites have experienced anomalies, some of which have had a significant adverse impact on their remaining useful life and/or commercial operation.  There can be no assurance that future anomalies will not impact the remaining useful life and/or commercial operation of any of the satellites in our fleet.  See “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” in Note 2 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of evaluation of impairment.  There can be no assurance that we can recover critical transmission capacity in the event one or more of our in-orbit satellites were to fail.  We generally do not carry commercial insurance for any of the in-orbit satellites that we use, other than certain satellites leased from third parties, and therefore, we will bear the risk associated with any uninsured in-orbit satellite failures.



AWS-4 Satellites.As a result of the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction, we acquired three AWS-4 satellites, including two in-orbit satellites (D1 and T1) and one satellite under construction (T2).  See the table below for further information.



DegreeEstimatedLaunchOrbitalUseful LifeSatellitesDateLocation(Years)Owned:T1July 2009111.115D1April 200892.8515Under Construction:T2   (1)NANANA





(1)During the fourth quarter 2014, EchoStar purchased our rights to the T2 satellite.  See Note 20 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our Related Party Transactions with EchoStar.











GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS



Our operations, particularly our DBS and broadband operations, and our wireless spectrum licenses are subject to significant government regulation and oversight, primarily by the FCC and, to a certain extent, by Congress, other federal agencies and foreign, state and local authorities.  Depending upon the circumstances, noncompliance with legislation or regulations promulgated by these authorities could result in limitations on, or the suspension or revocation of, our licenses or registrations, the termination or loss of contracts or the imposition of contractual damages, civil fines or criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  These governmental authorities could also adopt regulations or take other actions that would adversely affect our business prospects.



Furthermore, the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to video programming, satellite services, wireless telecommunications, broadband, the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business.  If we become subject to new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation that govern Internet network neutrality, for example, we may be required to incur additional expenses or alter our business model.  The manner in which legislation governing Internet network neutrality may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Wireless services and our wireless spectrum licenses are subject to regulation by the FCC and, depending on the jurisdiction, other federal, state and local, as well as international, governmental authorities and regulatory agencies, including, among other things, regulations governing the licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless telecommunications systems.  In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to how radio spectrum is used by licensees, the nature of the services that licensees may offer and how the services may be offered, and resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands.  The FCC grants wireless licenses for terms of generally ten years that are subject to renewal or revocation.  There can be no assurances that our wireless spectrum licenses will be renewed.  Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given license area could result in revocation of the license for that license area.  For further information related to our licenses and build-out requirements related to our wireless spectrum licenses see “Item 1A.  Risk Factors.”



The following summary of regulatory developments and legislation in the United States is not intended to describe all present and proposed government regulation and legislation affecting the video programming distribution, satellite services, wireless telecommunications and broadband industries.  Government regulations that are currently the subject of judicial or administrative proceedings, legislative hearings or administrative proposals could change these industries to varying degrees.  We cannot predict either the outcome of these proceedings or any potential impact they might have on these industries or on our operations.



FCC Regulations Governing our DBS Operations



FCC Jurisdiction over our DBS Satellite Operations.The Communications Act gives the FCC broad authority to regulate the operations of satellite companies.  Specifically, the Communications Act gives the FCC regulatory jurisdiction over the following areas relating to communications satellite operations:



·the assignment of satellite radio frequencies and orbital locations, the licensing of satellites and earth stations, the granting of related authorizations, and evaluation of the fitness of a company to be a licensee;

·approval for the relocation of satellites to different orbital locations or the replacement of an existing satellite with a new satellite;

·ensuring compliance with the terms and conditions of such assignments, licenses, authorizations and approvals, including required timetables for construction and operation of satellites;

·avoiding interference with other radio frequency emitters; and

·ensuring compliance with other applicable provisions of the Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations.











To obtain FCC satellite licenses and authorizations, satellite operators must satisfy strict legal, technical and financial qualification requirements.  Once issued, these licenses and authorizations are subject to a number of conditions including, among other things, satisfaction of ongoing due diligence obligations, construction milestones, and various reporting requirements.  Necessary federal approval of these applications may not be granted, may not be granted in a timely manner, or may be granted subject to conditions which may be cumbersome.



Overview of our DBS Satellites, Authorizations and Contractual Rights for Satellite Capacity.Our satellites are located in orbital positions, or slots, that are designated by their western longitude.  An orbital position describes both a physical location and an assignment of spectrum in the applicable frequency band.  Each DBS orbital position has 500 MHz of available Ku-band spectrum that is divided into 32 frequency channels.  Through digital compression technology, we can currently transmit between nine and 13 standard definition digital video channels per DBS frequency channel.  Several of our satellites also include spot-beam technology that enables us to increase the number of markets where we provide local channels, but reduces the number of video channels that could otherwise be offered across the entire United States.



The FCC has licensed us to operate a total of 50 DBS frequency channels at the following orbital locations:



·21 DBS frequency channels at the 119 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to the continental United States (“CONUS”); and

·29 DBS frequency channels at the 110 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to CONUS.



In addition, we currently lease or have entered into agreements to lease capacity on satellites using the following spectrum at the following orbital locations:



·500 MHz of Ku-band FSS spectrum that is divided into 32 frequency channels at the 118.7 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian FSS slot that is capable of providing service to CONUS, Alaska and Hawaii;

·32 DBS frequency channels at the 129 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian DBS slot that is capable of providing service to most of the United States;

·32 DBS frequency channels at the 61.5 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to most of the United States;

·24 DBS frequency channels at the 77 degree orbital location, which is a Mexican DBS slot that is capable of providing service to most of the United States and Mexico; and

·32 DBS frequency channels at the 72.7 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian DBS slot that is capable of providing service to CONUS.



We also have month-to-month FSS capacity available from EchoStar on a satellite located at the 121 degree orbital location and a lease for FSS capacity available from EchoStar on a satellite located at the 103 degree orbital location.



During September 2014, we filed an application with the FCC for authorization to provide service to the United States from a Canadian-licensed satellite using Reverse Band Working DBS frequencies at the 103 degree orbital location, which has been opposed by DirecTV.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of our application.



Duration of our DBS Satellite Licenses.  Generally speaking, all of our satellite licenses are subject to expiration unless renewed by the FCC.  The term of each of our DBS licenses is ten years.  Our licenses are currently set to expire at various times.  In addition, at various times we have relied on special temporary authorizations for our operations.  A special temporary authorization is granted for a period of only 180 days or less, subject again to possible renewal by the FCC.  From time to time, we apply for authorizations to use new satellites at our existing orbital locations.  For example, we have a pending application with the FCC to launch and operate a new satellite, EchoStar XVIII, at the 110 degree orbital location.  Generally, our FCC licenses and special temporary authorizations have been renewed, and our applications for new satellites at our existing orbital locations have been approved, by the FCC on a routine basis, but there can be no assurance that the FCC will continue to do so.











Opposition and Other Risks to our Licenses.  Several third parties have opposed in the past, and we expect these or other parties to oppose in the future, some of our FCC satellite authorizations and pending and future requests to the FCC for extensions, modifications, waivers and approvals of our licenses.  In addition, we must comply with numerous FCC reporting, filing and other requirements in connection with our satellite authorizations.  Consequently, it is possible the FCC could revoke, terminate, condition or decline to extend or renew certain of our authorizations or licenses.



4.5 Degree Spacing Tweener Satellites.  The FCC has proposed to allow so-called “tweener” DBS operations — DBS satellites operating at orbital locations 4.5 degrees (half of the usual nine degrees) away from other DBS satellites.  The FCC granted authorizations to Spectrum Five and EchoStar for tweener satellites at the 86.5 and 114.5 degree orbital locations.  Even though these authorizations were subsequently cancelled because the FCC determined that the licensees did not meet certain milestone requirements, Spectrum Five has filed a still pending petition for reconsideration of the FCC’s decision cancelling Spectrum Five’s license.  Tweener operations close to our licensed orbital locations (including Spectrum Five’s proposed use at the 114.5 degree orbital location) could cause harmful interference to our service and constrain our future operations.  The FCC has not completed its rulemaking on the operating and service rules for tweener satellites.



Interference from Other Services Sharing Satellite Spectrum.  The FCC has adopted rules that allow non-geostationary orbit fixed satellite services to operate on a co-primary basis in the same frequency band as DBS and FSS.  The FCC has also authorized the use of multichannel video distribution and data service (“MVDDS”) licenses in the DBS band.  MVDDS licenses were auctioned in 2004.  MVDDS systems are now only beginning to be commercially deployed in a few markets.  We have MVDDS licenses in 82 out of 214 geographical license areas.  Despite regulatory provisions intended to protect DBS and FSS operations from harmful interference, there can be no assurance that operations by other satellites or terrestrial communication services in the DBS and FSS bands will not interfere with our DBS and FSS operations and adversely affect our business.



Satellite Competition from Additional Slots and Interference.  DirecTV has obtained FCC authority to provide service to the United States from a Canadian DBS orbital slot, and EchoStar has obtained authority to provide service to the United States from both a Mexican and a Canadian DBS orbital slot.  Further, we have also received authority to do the same from a Canadian DBS orbital slot at 129 degrees and a Canadian FSS orbital slot at 118.7 degrees.  The possibility that the FCC will allow service to the U.S. from additional foreign slots may permit additional competition against us from other satellite providers.  It may also provide a means by which to increase our available satellite capacity in the United States.  In addition, a number of administrations, such as Great Britain and the Netherlands, have requested authority to add orbital locations serving the U.S. close to our licensed slots.  Such operations could cause harmful interference to our satellites and constrain our future operations.



Rules Relating to Broadcast Services.  The FCC imposes different rules for “subscription” and “broadcast” services.  We believe that because we offer a subscription programming service, we are not subject to many of the regulatory obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees.  However, we cannot be certain whether the FCC will find in the future that we must comply with regulatory obligations as a broadcast licensee, and certain parties have requested that we be treated as a broadcaster.  If the FCC determines that we are a broadcast licensee, it could require us to comply with all regulatory obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees, which in certain respects are subject to more burdensome regulation than subscription television service providers.



Public Interest Requirements.  The FCC imposes certain public interest obligations on our DBS licenses.  These obligations require us to set aside four percent of our channel capacity exclusively for noncommercial programming for which we must charge programmers below-cost rates and for which we may not impose additional charges on subscribers.  The Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010 (“STELA”) required the FCC to decrease this set-aside to 3.5 percent for satellite carriers who provide retransmission of state public affairs networks in 15 states and are otherwise qualified.  The FCC, however, has not yet determined whether we qualify for this decrease in set-aside.  The obligation to provide noncommercial programming may displace programming for which we could earn commercial rates and could adversely affect our financial results.  We cannot be sure that, if the FCC were to review our methodology for processing public interest carriage requests, computing the channel capacity we must set aside or determining the rates that we charge public interest programmers, it would find them in compliance with the public interest requirements.











Separate Security, Plug and Play

.

The STELA Reauthorization Act of 2014 (“STELAR”) ended the “integration ban” that required



Retransmission Consent

.



The FCC is currently considering changes to its rules governing retransmission consent disputes that may provide more guidance to the negotiating parties on good-faith negotiation requirements and improve notice to consumers in advance of possible service disruptions.  In addition, the recently enacted STELAR requires the FCC to commence a rulemaking proceeding to review its “totality of circumstances” test for ensuring that television stations and MVPDs negotiate retransmission consent agreements in “good faith.”  STELAR also prohibits television stations from coordinating or engaging in joint retransmission consent negotiations with any other local television stations, unless the stations are “directly or indirectly under common de jure control,” expanding a previous FCC ruling prohibiting joint negotiations only among the top four stations in a market.  In addition, STELAR prohibits a local television station from limiting an MVPD’s ability to carry other television signals that have been deemed by the FCC to be “significantly viewed” or to carry any other television signal the MVPD is otherwise entitled to carry under the Communications Act, unless such stations are “directly or indirectly under common de jure control” pursuant to FCC regulations.  We cannot predict if the FCC’s actions or these new restrictions on broadcasters will result in more effective retransmission consent negotiations.











Digital HD Carry-One, Carry-All Requirement.To provide any full-power local broadcast signal in any market, we are required to retransmit all qualifying broadcast signals in that market (“carry-one, carry-all”).  The FCC adopted digital carriage rules that required DBS providers to phase in carry-one, carry-all obligations with respect to the carriage of full-power broadcasters’ HD signals by February 17, 2013 in markets in which they elect to provide local channels in HD.  We have met this requirement in all applicable markets.  In addition, STELA has imposed accelerated HD carriage requirements for noncommercial educational stations on DBS providers that do not have a certain contractual relationship with a certain number of such stations.  We have entered into such contractual relationships with the requisite number of PBS stations to comply with the requirements.  The carriage of additional HD signals on our pay-TV service could cause us to experience significant capacity constraints and prevent us from carrying additional popular national programs and/or carrying those national programs in HD.



In addition, there is a pending rulemaking before the FCC regarding whether to require DBS providers to carry all broadcast stations in a local market in both standard definition and HD if they carry any station in that market in both standard definition and HD.  If we were required to carry multiple versions of each broadcast station, we would have to dedicate more of our finite satellite capacity to each broadcast station.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of this rulemaking process.



Distant Signals.  Pursuant to STELA, we obtained a waiver of a court injunction that previously prevented us from retransmitting certain distant network signals under a statutory copyright license.  Because of that waiver, we may provide distant network signals to eligible subscribers.  To qualify for that waiver, we are required to provide local service in all 210 local markets in the U.S. on an ongoing basis.  This condition poses a significant strain on our capacity.  Moreover, we may lose that waiver if we are found to have failed to provide local service in any of the 210 local markets.  If we lose the waiver, the injunction could be reinstated.  Furthermore, depending on the severity of the failure, we may also be subject to other sanctions, which may include, among other things, damages.



Cable Act and Program Access.  We purchase a large percentage of our programming from cable-affiliated programmers.  Pursuant to the Cable Act of 1992 (“Cable Act”), cable providers had been prohibited from entering into exclusive contracts with cable-affiliated programmers.  The Cable Act directed that this prohibition expire after a certain period of time unless the FCC determined that the prohibition continued to be necessary.  On October 5, 2012, the FCC allowed this prohibition to expire.  While the FCC has issued a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking aimed at serving some of the same objectives as the prohibition, there can be no assurances that such protections will be adopted or be as effective as the prohibition if they are adopted.  In the event this decision is reconsidered by the FCC or reviewed by a court of appeals, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of any subsequent FCC decision.



As a result of the expiration of this prohibition on exclusivity, we may be limited in our ability to obtain access at all, or on nondiscriminatory terms, to programming from programmers that are affiliated with cable system operators.  In addition, any other changes in the Cable Act, and/or the FCC’s rules that implement the Cable Act, that currently limit the ability of cable-affiliated programmers to discriminate against competing businesses such as ours, could adversely affect our ability to acquire cable-affiliated programming at all or to acquire programming on nondiscriminatory terms.



Furthermore, the FCC had imposed program access conditions on certain cable companies as a result of mergers, consolidations or affiliations with programmers.  The expiration of the exclusivity prohibition in the Cable Act triggered the termination of certain program access conditions that the FCC had imposed on Liberty Media Corporation (“Liberty”).  In July 2012, similar program access conditions that had applied to Time Warner Cable expired as previously scheduled.  These developments may adversely affect our ability to obtain Liberty’s and Time Warner Cable’s programming, or to obtain it on nondiscriminatory terms.  In the case of certain types of programming affiliated with Comcast through its control of NBCUniversal Media, LLC (“NBCUniversal”), the prohibition on exclusivity will still apply until January 2018.  During that time, we have the right to subject the terms of access to NBCUniversal’s programming to binding arbitration if we and the programmer cannot reach agreement on terms, subject to FCC review.  There can be no assurance that this procedure will result in favorable terms for us or that the FCC conditions that establish this procedure will be prevented from expiring on their own terms.











In addition, affiliates of certain cable providers have denied us access to sports programming that they supply to their cable systems terrestrially, rather than by satellite.  The FCC has held that new denials of such service are unfair if they have the purpose or effect of significantly hindering us from providing programming to consumers.  However, we cannot be sure that we can prevail in a complaint related to such programming and gain access to it.  Our continuing failure to access such programming could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete in regions serviced by these cable providers.



MDU Exclusivity.  The FCC has found that cable companies should not be permitted to have exclusive relationships with multiple dwelling units (e.g., apartment buildings).  In May 2009, the D.C. Circuit upheld the FCC’s decision.  While the FCC requested comments in November 2007 on whether DBS and Private Cable Operators should be prohibited from having similar relationships with multiple dwelling units, it has yet to make a formal decision.  If the cable exclusivity ban were to be extended to DBS providers, our ability to serve these types of buildings and communities would be adversely affected.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of the FCC’s consideration of this proposal.



Net Neutrality.During 2010, the FCC imposed rules of nondiscrimination and transparency upon wireline broadband providers.  While this decision provides certain protection from discrimination by wireline broadband providers against our distribution of video content via the Internet, it may still permit wireline broadband providers to provide certain services over their wireline broadband network that are not subject to these requirements.  Although the FCC imposed similar transparency requirements on wireless broadband providers, which includes AWS licensees, it declined to impose a wireless nondiscrimination rule.  Instead, wireless broadband Internet providers are prohibited from blocking websites and applications that compete with voice and video telephony services.  The FCC’s net neutrality rules were challenged in Federal court.  On January 14, 2014, the D.C. Circuit upheld the FCC’s transparency rule, but vacated both the nondiscrimination and anti-blocking rules.  The FCC is currently considering revised net neutrality rules in accordance with the D.C. Circuit’s decision.  However, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of this FCC proceeding or of any subsequent challenges to the rules that the FCC may adopt.  Therefore, we cannot predict the practical effect of these rules and related proceedings on our ability to distribute our video content via the Internet.



Comcast-NBCUniversal.In January 2011, the FCC and the Department of Justice approved a transaction between Comcast and General Electric Company (“General Electric”), pursuant to which they joined their programming properties, including NBC, Bravo and many others, in a venture, NBCUniversal, controlled by Comcast.  During March 2013, Comcast completed the acquisition of substantially all of General Electric’s remaining interest in NBCUniversal.  The FCC conditioned its approval on, among other things, Comcast complying with the terms of the FCC’s order on network neutrality (even if that order is vacated by judicial or legislative action) and Comcast licensing its affiliated content to us, other traditional pay-TV providers and certain providers of video services over the Internet on fair and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, including, among others, price.  If Comcast does not license its affiliated content to us on fair and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, we can seek binding arbitration and continue to carry such content while the arbitration is pending.  However, it is uncertain how these conditions may be interpreted and enforced by the FCC; therefore, we cannot predict the practical effect of these conditions.  In addition, as these conditions expire in January 2018, we will not be able to rely on these protections beyond that date.



Definition of MVPD.In December 2014, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding the definition of an MVPD.  Among other things, the FCC is seeking comments on whether the definition of an MVPD should apply to Internet-based streaming services, thus making such services subject to the same regulations as an MVPD.  The FCC is also seeking comments regarding the treatment of purely Internet-based linear video programming services that cable operators and DBS providers offer in addition to their traditional video services.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of this rulemaking process.



FCC Regulation of our Wireless Spectrum



DISH Spectrum



700 MHz Licenses.  In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless spectrum licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009.  At the time they were granted, these licenses were subject to











certain interim and final build-out requirements.  By June 2013, we were required to provide signal coverage and offer service to at least 35% of the geographic area in each area covered by each individual license (the “700 MHz Interim Build-Out Requirement”).  By June 2019, we were required to provide signal coverage and offer service to at least 70% of the geographic area in each area covered by each individual license (the “700 MHz Final Build-Out Requirement”).  As discussed below, these requirements have since been modified by the FCC.





AWS-4 Licenses.  On March 2, 2012, the FCC approved the transfer of 40 MHz of wireless spectrum licenses held by DBSD North America and TerreStar to us.  On March 9, 2012, we completed the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction, pursuant to which we acquired, among other things, certain satellite assets and wireless spectrum licenses held by DBSD North America and TerreStar.  The total consideration to acquire the DBSD North America and TerreStar assets was approximately $2.860 billion.





On December 20, 2013, the FCC issued a further order that, among other things, extended the AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement by one year to March 2021 (the “Modified AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement”).  If we fail to meet the AWS-4 Interim Build-Out Requirement, the Modified AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement may be accelerated by one year, from March 2021 to March 2020.  If we fail to meet the Modified AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement, our terrestrial authorization for each license area in which we fail to meet the requirement may terminate.  The FCC’s December 20, 2013 order also conditionally waived certain FCC rules for our AWS-4 licenses to allow us to repurpose all 20 MHz of our uplink spectrum (2000-2020 MHz) for downlink (the “AWS-4











Downlink Waiver”).  If we fail to notify the FCC that we intend to use our uplink spectrum for downlink by June 20, 2016, the AWS-4 Downlink Waiver will terminate, and the Modified AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement will revert back to the AWS-4 Final Build-Out Requirement.



H Block Licenses.



Commercialization of Our Wireless Spectrum Licenses and Related Assets.  We have made substantial investments to acquire certain wireless spectrum licenses and related assets.  We may also determine that additional wireless spectrum licenses may be required to commercialize our wireless business and to compete with other wireless service providers.  We will need to make significant additional investments or partner with others to, among other things, commercialize, build-out, and integrate these licenses and related assets, and any additional acquired licenses and related assets; and comply with regulations applicable to such licenses.  Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization, build-out, integration efforts, and regulatory compliance, any such investments or partnerships could vary significantly.  We may need to raise significant additional capital in the future to fund these efforts, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on these wireless spectrum licenses or that we will be able to profitably deploy the assets represented by these wireless spectrum licenses, which may affect the carrying value of these assets and our future financial condition or results of operations.



AWS-3 Auction



The AWS-3 Auction commenced on November 13, 2014 and concluded on January 29, 2015.  The FCC’s prohibition on certain communications related to the AWS-3 Auction expired on February 13, 2015.  Also, on February 13, 2015, Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless each filed applications with the FCC to acquire certain AWS-3 Licenses for which it was named as winning bidder and had made the required down payments.  Each of Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless has applied as a Designated Entity that is entitled to receive a bidding credit of 25% in the AWS-3 Auction, as defined by FCC regulations.



Northstar Wireless was the winning bidder for the Northstar Licenses with gross winning bids totaling approximately $7.845 billion, which after taking into account a 25% bidding credit, equals net winning bids totaling approximately $5.884 billion.  Northstar Wireless is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Northstar Spectrum.  Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, American II, we own an 85% non-controlling interest in Northstar Spectrum.  Northstar Manager owns a 15% controlling interest in, and is the sole manager of, Northstar Spectrum.  Northstar Spectrum is governed by the Northstar Spectrum LLC Agreement by and between American II and Northstar Manager.  Pursuant to the Northstar Spectrum LLC Agreement, American II and Northstar Manager agreed to make pro-rata equity contributions in Northstar Spectrum equal to approximately 15% of the net purchase price of the











Northstar Licenses.  American II also entered into the Northstar Credit Agreement by and among American II, as Lender, Northstar Wireless, as Borrower, and Northstar Spectrum, as Guarantor.  Pursuant to the Northstar Credit Agreement, American II agreed to make loans to Northstar Wireless for approximately 85% of the net purchase price of the Northstar Licenses.  American II made equity contributions to Northstar Spectrum of approximately $633 million and a loan to Northstar Wireless of approximately $432 million for Northstar Wireless to make the upfront payment for the AWS-3 Auction and the down payment required for the Northstar Licenses.  American II is also required to make an equity contribution to Northstar Spectrum of approximately $117 million and a loan to Northstar Wireless of approximately $4.569 billion for Northstar Wireless to make the final payment required for the Northstar Licenses, which is due to the FCC by March 2, 2015.  Consequently, as of March 2, 2015, the total equity contributions from American II to Northstar Spectrum will be approximately $750 million and the total loans from American II to Northstar Wireless will be approximately $5.001 billion.





After Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless have made the final payments to the FCC for the Northstar Licenses and the SNR Licenses, respectively, our total non-controlling equity and debt investments in the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities will be approximately $9.778 billion.  We have funded and will fund these investments from existing cash and marketable investment securities.  Such funding has included and will include $899 million in total equity and debt investments in the Northstar Entities and SNR Entities during the fourth quarter 2014, cash and marketable investment securities as of December 31, 2014, cash generated from operations during 2015, and a $400 million refund from the FCC to one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries related to the AWS-3 Auction.  Issuance of any AWS-3 Licenses to Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless depends, among other things, upon the FCC’s review and approval of the applications filed by Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless.  Objections to the applications filed by Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless must be submitted to the FCC within ten calendar days following the release by the FCC of the public notice listing the applications acceptable for filing.  We cannot predict the timing or the outcome of the FCC’s review of the applications filed by Northstar Wireless and SNR Wireless.



In the event that the FCC grants the Northstar Licenses and the SNR Licenses, we may need to make significant additional loans to the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities, or they may need to partner with others, so that the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities may commercialize, build-out and integrate the Northstar Licenses and the SNR Licenses, and comply with regulations applicable to the Northstar Licenses and the SNR Licenses.  Depending upon the nature and scope of such commercialization, build-out, integration efforts, and regulatory compliance, any such loans or partnerships could vary significantly.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a profitable return on our non-controlling investments in the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities.











See “Item 1A. Risk Factors-We face certain risks related to our non-controlling investments in the Northstar Entities and the SNR Entities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition”in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.



MVDDS.  We have MVDDS licenses in 82 out of 214 geographical license areas, including Los Angeles, New York City, Chicago and several other major metropolitan areas.  By August 2014, we were required to meet certain FCC build-out requirements related to our MVDDS licenses, and we are subject to certain FCC service rules applicable to these licenses.  In January 2015, the FCC granted our application to extend the build-out requirements related to our MVDDS licenses.  We now have until 2019 to provide  “substantial service” on our MVDDS licenses, and the licenses expire in 2024.  Our MVDDS licenses may be terminated, however, if we do not provide substantial service in accordance with the new build-out requirements.



State and Local Regulation



We are also regulated by state and local authorities.  While the FCC has preempted many state and local regulations that impair the installation and use of towers and consumer satellite dishes, our businesses nonetheless may be subject to state and local regulation, including, among others, zoning regulations that affect the ability to install consumer satellite antennas or build out wireless telecommunications networks.



International Regulation



We are subject to regulation by the International Telecommunication Union (“ITU”) and our satellites must be registered in the United Nations (“UN”) Registry of Space Objects.  The orbital location and frequencies for certain of our satellites are subject to the frequency registration and coordination process of the ITU.  The ITU Radio Regulations define the international rules, regulations, and rights for a satellite and associated earth stations to use specific radio frequencies at a specific orbital location.  These rules, which include deadlines for the bringing of satellite networks into use, differ depending on the type of service to be provided and the frequencies to be used by the satellite.  On our behalf, various countries have made and may in the future make additional filings for the frequency assignments at particular orbital locations that are used or to be used by our current satellite networks and potential future satellite networks we may build or acquire.



Our satellite services also must conform to the ITU service plans for Region 2 (which includes the United States).  If any of our operations are not consistent with this plan, the ITU will only provide authorization on a non-interference basis pending successful modification of the plan or the agreement of all affected administrations to the non-conforming operations.  Certain of our satellites are not presently entitled to any interference protection from other satellites that are in conformance with the plan.  Accordingly, unless and until the ITU modifies its service plans to include the technical parameters of our non-conforming operations, our non-conforming satellites, along with those of other non-conforming satellite operators, must not cause harmful electrical interference with other assignments that are in conformance with the ITU service plans.



Registration in the UN Registry of Space Objects



The United States and other jurisdictions in which we license satellites are parties to the UN Convention on the Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space.  The UN Convention requires a satellite’s launching state to register the satellite as a space object.  The act of registration carries liability for the registering country in the event that the satellite causes third-party damage.  Administrations may place certain requirements on satellite licensees in order to procure the necessary launch or operational authorizations that accompany registration of the satellite.  In some jurisdictions, these authorizations are separate and distinct, with unique requirements, from the authorization to use a set of frequencies to provide satellite services.  There is no guarantee that we will be able to procure such authorizations even if we already possess a frequency authorization.



Export Control Regulation



The delivery of satellites and related technical information for purposes of launch by foreign launch service providers is subject to strict export control and prior approval requirements.  We are required to obtain import and export licenses from the United States government to receive and deliver certain components of direct-to-home











satellite television systems.  In addition, the delivery of satellites and the supply of certain related ground control equipment, technical services and data, and satellite communication/control services to destinations outside the United States are subject to export control and prior approval requirements from the United States government (including prohibitions on the sharing of certain satellite-related goods and services with China).



PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY



Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services that we offer or that we may offer in the future.  In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products or services infringe intellectual property rights held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property rights at a material cost, or to redesign those products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing any patent claims.  If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to obtain the intellectual property rights at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position.



We may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that our products or services may potentially infringe.  In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until the Patent and Trademark Office either publishes the application or issues a patent (whichever arises first) and, accordingly, our products may infringe claims contained in pending patent applications of which we are not aware.  Further, the process of determining definitively whether a claim of infringement is valid often involves expensive and protracted litigation, even if we are ultimately successful on the merits.



We cannot estimate the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain intellectual property licenses or the availability and cost of any such licenses.  Those costs, and their impact on our results of operations, could be material.  Damages in patent infringement cases can be substantial, and in certain circumstances can be trebled.  To the extent that we are required to pay unanticipated royalties to third parties, these increased costs of doing business could negatively affect our liquidity and operating results.  We are currently defending multiple patent infringement actions.  We cannot be certain the courts will conclude these companies do not own the rights they claim, that our products do not infringe on these rights and/or that these rights are not valid.  Further, we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain licenses from these persons on commercially reasonable terms or, if we were unable to obtain such licenses, that we would be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement.



ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS



We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations.  These include laws regulating air emissions, water discharge and waste management.  We attempt to maintain compliance with all such requirements.  We do not expect capital or other expenditures for environmental compliance to be material in 2015 or 2016.  Environmental requirements are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time.  Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that these requirements will not change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business.



SEGMENT REPORTING DATA AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA



For segment reporting data and principal geographic area data for 2014, 2013 and 2012, see Note 17 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



EMPLOYEES



We had approximately 19,000 employees at December 31, 2014, most of whom were located in the United States.  We generally consider relations with our employees to be good.  Approximately 60 employees in two of our field offices have voted to have a union represent them in contract negotiations.  While we are not currently a party to any collective bargaining agreements, we are currently negotiating collective bargaining agreements at these offices.











WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION



We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and accordingly file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.  The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room.  As an electronic filer, our public filings are also maintained on the SEC’s Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov.



WEBSITE ACCESS



Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act also may be accessed free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC.  The address of that website is http://www.dish.com.



We have adopted a written code of ethics that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance with Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the SEC promulgated thereunder.  Our code of ethics is available on our corporate website at http://www.dish.com.  In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers of, the provisions of this code of ethics that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events on our website.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

(furnished in accordance with Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K)



The following table and information below sets forth the name, age and position with DISH Network of each of our executive officers, the period during which each executive officer has served as such, and each executive officer’s business experience during the past five years:



NameAgePositionCharles   W. Ergen61ChairmanJoseph   P. Clayton65President   and Chief Executive Officer and DirectorW.   Erik Carlson45Executive   Vice President, In-Home Service and Manufacturing OperationsThomas   A. Cullen55Executive   Vice President, Corporate DevelopmentJames   DeFranco62Executive   Vice President and DirectorR.   Stanton Dodge47Executive   Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryBernard   L. Han50Executive   Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerMichael   Kelly53Executive   Vice PresidentRoger   J. Lynch52Chief   Executive Officer, Sling TV Holding L.L.C.Michael   K. McClaskey51Executive   Vice President and Chief Human Resources OfficerDavid   M. Shull42Executive   Vice President and Chief Commercial OfficerSteven   E. Swain47Senior   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



Charles W. Ergen.Mr. Ergen is our executive Chairman and has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of DISH Network since its formation and, during the past five years, has held executive officer and director positions with DISH Network and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Ergen also serves as executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board of Directors of EchoStar.  Mr. Ergen co-founded DISH Network with his spouse, Cantey Ergen, and James DeFranco, in 1980.



Joseph P. Clayton.  Mr. Clayton has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and has been a member of our Board of Directors since June 2011.  Mr. Clayton served as Chairman of Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. (Sirius) from November 2004 to July 2008 and served as Chief Executive Officer of Sirius from November 2001 to November











2004.  Prior to joining Sirius, Mr. Clayton served as President of Global Crossing North America, as President and Chief Executive Officer of Frontier Corporation and as Executive Vice President, Marketing and Sales - Americas and Asia, of Thomson S.A.  Mr. Clayton previously served on the Board of Directors of Transcend Services, Inc. from 2001 to April 2012 and on the Board of Directors of EchoStar from October 2008 to June 2011.



W. Erik Carlson.Mr. Carlson has served as our Executive Vice President, In-Home Service and Manufacturing Operations since February 2008 and is responsible for overseeing our residential and commercial installations, customer billing and equipment retrieval and refurbishment operations.  Mr. Carlson previously was Senior Vice President of Retail Services, a position he held since mid-2006.  He joined DISH Network in 1995 and has held operating roles of increasing responsibility over the years.



Thomas A. Cullen.Mr. Cullen has served as our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development since July 2011.  Mr. Cullen served as our Executive Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Programming from April 2009 to July 2011 and as our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development from December 2006 to April 2009.  Before joining DISH Network, Mr. Cullen held various executive positions in the Telecommunications, Cable and Wireless industries.



James DeFranco.Mr. DeFranco is one of our Executive Vice Presidents and has been one of our vice presidents and a member of the Board of Directors since our formation.  During the past five years he has held various executive officer and director positions with our subsidiaries.  Mr. DeFranco co-founded DISH Network with Charles W. Ergen and Cantey Ergen, in 1980.



R. Stanton Dodge.Mr. Dodge has served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since June 2007 and is responsible for all legal and government affairs for DISH Network and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Dodge has served on the Board of Directors of EchoStar since March 2009.  Mr. Dodge also served as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from October 2007 to November 2011 pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and EchoStar.  Since joining DISH Network in November 1996, he has held various positions of increasing responsibility in DISH Network’s legal department.



Bernard L. Han.Mr. Han has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2009 and is in charge of all sales, operations and information technology functions for DISH Network.  Mr. Han served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of DISH Network from September 2006 to April 2009.  Mr. Han also served as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2008 to June 2010 pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and EchoStar.  From October 2002 to May 2005, Mr. Han served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Northwest Airlines, Inc.



Michael Kelly.Mr. Kelly has served as our Executive Vice President since January 2014 and is currently on a leave of absence.  Mr. Kelly served as the President of Blockbuster L.L.C. from May 2011 to January 2014.  Mr. Kelly served as our Executive Vice President, Direct, Commercial and Advertising Sales from December 2005 until May 2011 and as Executive Vice President of DISH Network Service L.L.C. and Customer Service from February 2004 until December 2005.



Roger J. Lynch.Mr. Lynch has served as our Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies since November 2009.  Mr. Lynch also served as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies from November 2009 to December 2014.  In addition, in July 2012, Mr. Lynch was named Chief Executive Officer of Sling TV Holding L.L.C.  Prior to joining DISH Network, Mr. Lynch served as Chairman and CEO of Video Networks International, Ltd., an Internet protocol television (“IPTV”) technology company in the United Kingdom from 2002 to 2009.



Michael K. McClaskey.Mr. McClaskey has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since February 2014 and is responsible for the recruiting, benefits administration, compensation, and leadership and organizational development for DISH Network.  Mr. McClaskey joined DISH Network in 2007 and served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer until February 2014.  Prior to DISH Network, Mr. McClaskey spent 12 years at Perot Systems where he served as Vice President of Infrastructure Solutions and Chief Information Officer.











David M. Shull.  Mr. Shull has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer since March 2013 and is responsible for overseeing our video content acquisition and packaging, product management, marketing and advertising sales.  Mr. Shull is currently on a leave of absence.  Mr. Shull previously was our Senior Vice President of Programming, a position he held since December 2008.  He joined DISH Network in 2004 and has held various positions of increasing responsibility over the years.



Steven E. Swain.Mr. Swain has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2014.  Mr. Swain served as our Senior Vice President of Programming from April 2014 to October 2014, overseeing the acquisition and renewal of all programming content for DISH Network.  Mr. Swain joined DISH Network in 2011 as Vice President of Corporate Financial Planning and Analysis.  Prior to DISH Network, Mr. Swain spent more than 15 years working in the telecommunications sector, most recently at CenturyLink, formerly Qwest Communications, where he served in multiple leadership roles in finance, including corporate financial planning and analysis, treasury and investor relations, as well as in network engineering.



There are no arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which any executive officer was selected as such.  Pursuant to the Bylaws of DISH Network, executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



