Item 1.BUSINESS



OVERVIEW



DISH Network Corporation is the nation’s third largest pay-TV provider, with approximately 14.133 million customers across the United States as of December 31, 2010.  We were organized in 1995 as a corporation under the laws of the State of Nevada and started offering DISH Network subscription television services in March 1996.



Our common stock is publicly traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “DISH.”  Our principal executive offices are located at 9601 South Meridian Boulevard, Englewood, Colorado 80112 and our telephone number is (303) 723-1000.



On January 1, 2008, we completed the distribution of our technology and set-top box business and certain infrastructure assets (the “Spin-off”) into a separate publicly-traded company, EchoStar Corporation (“EchoStar”).  DISH Network and EchoStar operate as separate publicly-traded companies, and neither entity has any ownership interest in the other.  However, a substantial majority of the voting power of the shares of both companies is owned beneficially by Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer or by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family.



Business Strategy



Our business strategy is to be the best provider of video services in the United States by providing high-quality products, outstanding customer service, and great value.  We promote the DISH Network programming packages as providing our subscribers with a better “price-to-value” relationship than those available from other subscription television providers.  We believe that there continues to be unsatisfied demand for high-quality, reasonably priced television programming services.



·High-Quality Products.We offer a wide selection of local and national programming, featuring more national and local HD channels than most pay-TV providers.  We have been a technology leader in our industry, introducing award-winning DVRs, dual tuner receivers, 1080p video on demand, and external hard drives.  To maintain and enhance our competitiveness over the long term, we are promoting a suite of integrated products designed to maximize the convenience and ease of watching TV anytime and anywhere, referred to as “TV Everywhere.”  Our TV Everywhere™service utilizes, among other things, online access and Slingbox “placeshifting” technology.



·Outstanding Customer Service.We strive to provide outstanding customer service by improving the quality of the initial installation of subscriber equipment, improving the reliability of our equipment, better educating our customers about our products and services, and resolving customer problems promptly and effectively when they arise.



·Great Value.We have historically been viewed as the low-cost provider in the pay-TV industry in the U.S. because we seek to offer the lowest everyday prices available to consumers after introductory promotions expire.



Products and Services



Programming.We provide programming which includes more than 280 basic video channels, 60 Sirius Satellite Radio music channels, 30 premium movie channels, 35 regional and specialty sports channels, 2,800 local channels, 250 Latino and international channels, and 55 channels of pay-per-view content.  In addition, we offer local HD channels in more than 160 markets and 215 national HD channels.  Although we distribute over 2,800 local channels, a subscriber typically may only receive the local channels available in the subscriber’s home market.  As of December 31, 2010, we provided local channel coverage in standard definition to markets covering 100% of U.S.











TV households.  In addition, we provided local HD channels to markets representing approximately 94% of U.S. TV households.



Receiver Systems.Our subscribers receive programming via equipment that includes a small satellite dish, digital set-top receivers, and remote controls.  Some of our advanced receiver models feature DVRs, HD capability, dual tuners (which allow independent viewing on two separate televisions) and Internet-protocol compatibility, which allows consumers to view movies and other content on their televisions via the Internet and a broadband connection.  We rely on EchoStar to design and manufacture all of our new receivers and certain related components.  See “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”



DISHOnline.com.DISHOnline.com gives DISH Network subscribers the ability to watch television programs, movies, and clips online at no additional charge with their paid subscription and compatible equipment.  DISHOnline.com offers more than 150,000 movies, television shows, clips and trailers.



DISH Remote Access.DISH Network’s free remote access (“DISH Remote Access”) gives subscribers the ability to remotely manage their DVRs using compatible mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets and laptops through their broadband-connected receiver.



Google TV.Google TV combines search capabilities and content from the Internet with our DISH Network subscription television services to give DISH Network subscribers the ability to search the Internet, check e-mail, interact with social media, and find additional online programming content whilesimultaneously watching television.



Content Delivery



Digital Broadcast Operations Centers.The principal digital broadcast operations facilities we use are EchoStar’s facilities located in Cheyenne, Wyoming and Gilbert, Arizona.  We also use five regional digital broadcast operations facilities owned and operated by EchoStar that allow us to maximize the use of the spot beam capabilities of certain owned and leased satellites.  Programming content is delivered to these facilities by fiber or satellite and processed, compressed, encrypted and then uplinked to satellites for delivery to consumers.



In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a broadcast agreement pursuant to which EchoStar provides certain broadcast services to us, including teleport services such as transmission and downlinking, channel origination services, and channel management services for a period ending on January 1, 2012.  We may terminate channel origination services and channel management services for any reason and without any liability upon at least 60 days notice to EchoStar.  If we terminate teleport services for a reason other than EchoStar’s breach, we are obligated to pay EchoStar the aggregate amount of the remainder of the expected cost of providing the teleport services.



Satellites.Our DISH Network programming is currently delivered to customers using satellites that operate in the “Ku” band portion of the microwave radio spectrum.  The Ku-band is divided into two spectrum segments.  The portion of the Ku-band that allows the use of higher power satellites – 12.2 to 12.7 GHz over the United States – is known as the Broadcast Satellite Service (“BSS”) band, which is also referred to as the Direct Broadcast Satellite (“DBS”) band.  The portion of the Ku-band that utilizes lower power satellites – 11.7 to 12.2 GHz over the United States – is known as the Fixed Satellite Service (“FSS”) band.



Most of our programming is currently delivered using DBS satellites.  To accommodate the more bandwidth-intensive HD programming and other needs, we continue to explore opportunities to expand our satellite capacity through the acquisition of new spectrum, the launching of more technologically advanced satellites, and the more efficient use of existing spectrum via, among other things, better modulation and compression technologies.



We own or lease capacity on 13 satellites in geostationary orbit approximately 22,300 miles above the equator.  For further information concerning these satellites and satellite anomalies, please see the table and discussion under “Satellites” below.



Conditional Access System.Our conditional access system secures our programming content using encryption so that only paying customers can access our programming.  We use microchips embedded in credit card-sized access











cards, called “smart cards,” or security chips in our receiver systems to control access to authorized programming content (“Security Access Devices”).



Our signal encryption has been compromised in the past and may be compromised in the future even though we continue to respond with significant investment in security measures, such as Security Access Device replacement programs and updates in security software, that are intended to make signal theft more difficult.  It has been our prior experience that security measures may only be effective for short periods of time or not at all and that we remain susceptible to additional signal theft.  During 2009, we completed the replacement of our Security Access Devices and re-secured our system.  We expect additional future replacements of these devices will be necessary to keep our system secure.  We cannot ensure that we will be successful in reducing or controlling theft of our programming content and we may incur additional costs in the future if our system’s security is compromised.



Distribution Channels



While we offer receiver systems and programming through direct sales channels, a majority of our new subscriber acquisitions are generated through independent third parties such as small satellite retailers, direct marketing groups, local and regional consumer electronics stores, nationwide retailers, and telecommunications companies.  In general, we pay these independent third parties a mix of upfront and monthly incentives to solicit orders for our services.  In addition, we partner with telecommunications companies to bundle DISH Network programming with broadband and voice services on a single bill.



Competition



As of December 31, 2010, our 14.133 million subscribers represent approximately 15% of pay-TV subscribers in the United States.  We face substantial competition from established pay-TV providers and increasing competition from companies providing/facilitating the delivery of video content via the Internet to computers, televisions, and mobile devices.



·Other Direct Broadcast Satellite Operators.We compete directly with the DirecTV Group, Inc., or DirecTV, the largest satellite TV provider in the U.S. which had over 19.2 million subscribers at the end of 2010, representing approximately 20% of pay-TV subscribers.



·Cable Television Companies.We encounter substantial competition in the pay-TV industry from numerous cable television companies that operate via franchise licenses across the U.S.  According to the National Cable & Telecommunications Association’s 2009 Industry Overview, 98% of the 130 million U.S. housing units are passed by cable.  More than 95 million households subscribe to a pay-TV service and approximately 63% of pay-TV subscribers receive their programming from a cable operator.  Cable companies are typically able to bundle their video services with broadband Internet access and voi
ce services and many have significant investments in companies that provide programming content.



·Telecommunications Companies.  Large telecommunications companies have upgraded older copper wire lines with fiber optic lines in their larger markets.  These fiber optic lines provide high capacity bandwidth, enabling telecommunications companies to offer video content that can be bundled with their broadband Internet access and voice services.  In particular, AT&T and Verizon have built fiber-optic based networks to provide video services in substantial portions of their service areas.



·Internet Delivered Video.We face competition from content providers who distribute video directly to consumers over the Internet.  Programming offered over the Internet has become more prevalent as the speed and quality of broadband networks have improved.  Significant changes in consumer behavior with regard to the means by which they obtain video entertainment and information in response to this emerging digital media competition could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or otherwise disrupt our business.



·Wireless Mobile Video.We also expect to face increasing competition from wireless telecommunications providers who offer mobile video offerings.  We expect mobile video offerings will likely become more prevalent in the marketplace as wireless telecommunications providers implement the fourth generation of wireless communications.











Acquisition of New Subscribers



We incur significant upfront costs to acquire subscribers, including advertising, retailer incentives, equipment and installation.  In addition, customer promotions to acquire new subscribers result in less revenue to us over the promotional period.  While we attempt to recoup these upfront costs over the lives of their subscriptions, there can be no assurance that we will.  We deploy business rules such as credit requirements and contractual commitments, and we strive to provide outstanding customer service, to increase the likelihood of customers keeping their DISH Network service over longer periods of time.  Our subscriber acquisition costs may vary significantly from period to period.



Advertising.We use print, radio, television and Internet media, on a local and national basis to motivate potential subscribers to call DISH Network, visit our website or contact independent third party retailers.



Retailer Incentives.We pay retailers an upfront incentive for each new subscriber they bring to DISH Network and, for certain retailers, we pay small monthly incentives for up to 60 months provided, among other things, the customer continuously subscribes to qualified programming.



Equipment.We incur significant upfront costs to provide our new subscribers with in-home equipment, including advanced HD and DVR receivers, which most of our new subscribers lease from us.  While we seek to recoup these upfront equipment costs mostly through monthly fees, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving that objective.  In addition, upon deactivation of a subscriber we may refurbish and redeploy their equipment which lowers future upfront costs.  However, our ability to capitalize on these cost savings may be limited as technological advances and consumer demand for new features may render the returned equipment obsolete.



Installation.We incur significant upfront costs to install satellite dishes and receivers in the homes of our new customers.



New Customer Promotions.We often offer free programming and/or promotional pricing during introductory periods for new subscribers.  While such promotional activities have an economic cost and reduce our subscriber-related revenue, they are not included in our definitions of subscriber acquisition costs or the SAC metric.



Customer Retention



We incur significant costs to retain our existing customers, mostly by upgrading their equipment to HD and DVR receivers.  As with our subscriber acquisition costs, our retention upgrade spending includes the cost of equipment and installation.  In certain circumstances, we also offer free programming and/or promotional pricing for limited periods for existing customers in exchange for a contractual commitment.  A component of our retention efforts includes the installation of equipment for customers who move.  Our subscriber retention costs may vary significantly from period to period.



Customer Service



Customer Service Centers.We use both internally-operated and outsourced customer service centers to handle calls from prospective and existing customers.  We strive to answer customer calls promptly and to resolve issues effectively on the first call.  We intend to better use the Internet and other applications to provide our customers with more self-service capabilities over time.



Installation and Other In-Home Service Operations.High-quality installations, upgrades, and in-home repairs are critical to providing good customer service.  Such in-home service is performed by both DISH Network employees and a network of independent contractors and includes, among other things, priority technical support, replacement equipment, cabling and power surge repairs for a monthly fee.



Subscriber Management.We presently use, and depend on, CSG Systems International, Inc.’s software system for the majority of DISH Network subscriber billing and related functions.











New Business Opportunities



From time to time we evaluate opportunities for strategic investments or acquisitions that may complement our current services and products, enhance our technical capabilities, improve or sustain our competitive position, or otherwise offer growth opportunities.  We may make investments in or partner with others to expand our business into mobile and portable video, data and voice services.



In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009.  To commercialize these licenses and satisfy FCC build-out requirements, we will be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others.  Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization and build-out, any such investment or partnership could vary significantly.  Part or all of our licenses may be terminated for failure to satisfy FCC build-out requirements.  We are currently performing a market test to evaluate different technologies and consumer acceptance.



SATELLITES



Most of our programming is currently delivered using DBS satellites.  We continue to explore opportunities to expand our available satellite capacity through the use of other available spectrum.  Increasing our available spectrum is particularly important as more bandwidth intensive HD programming is produced and to address new video and data applications consumers may desire in the future.  We currently utilize satellites in geostationary orbit approximately 22,300 miles above the equator detailed in the table below.



OriginalDegreeUsefulLaunchOrbitalLifeLease TermSatellitesDateLocation(Years)(Years)Owned:EchoStar I (1)December 19957712EchoStar VIIFebruary 200211912EchoStar XFebruary 200611012EchoStar XIJuly 200811012EchoStar XIVMarch 201011915EchoStar XVJuly 201061.515Leased from EchoStar:EchoStar VI (1)July 20007712EchoStar VIII (1)(2)August 20027712EchoStar IX (1)(2)(3)August 200312112EchoStar XII (1)July 200361.510Nimiq 5 (1)(2)September 200972.71010Leased from Other Third Party:Anik F3April 2007118.71515Ciel IIDecember 20081291010Under Construction:Leased from EchoStar:QuetzSat-1Late 2011771010EchoStar XVI201261.51010





(1)See Note 17 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our Related Party Agreements.

(2)We lease a portion of the capacity on these satellites.

(3)Leased on a month to month basis.











EchoStar XIV.Our EchoStar XIV satellite was launched on March 20, 2010 and commenced commercial operations at the 119 degree orbital location during May 2010.  EchoStar XIV has both spot beam capabilities and the ability to provide service to the entire continental United States (“CONUS”) that has allowed us, among other things, to expand our HD offerings.



EchoStar XV.Our EchoStar XV satellite was launched on July 10, 2010 and commenced commercial operations at the 61.5 degree orbital location during August 2010.  EchoStar XV is a CONUS satellite that has allowed us, among other things, to expand our HD offerings.  EchoStar XV is expected to be used as an in-orbit spare when EchoStar XVI commences commercial operations during the second half of 2012.



Satellites under Construction



We have agreed to lease capacity on two satellites from EchoStar that are currently under construction.



·QuetzSat-1.During 2008, we entered into a ten-year transponder service agreement with EchoStar to lease 24 DBS transponders on QuetzSat-1, a Mexican DBS satellite being constructed by SES Latin America S.A. (“SES”).  QuetzSat-1 is expected to be launched during the second half of 2011 and operate at the 77 degree orbital location.  Upon expiration of the initial term, we have the option to renew the transponder service agreement on a year-to-year basis through the end-of-life of the QuetzSat-1 satellite.  Upon a launch failure, in-orbit failure o
r end-of-life of the QuetzSat-1 satellite, and in certain other circumstances, we have certain rights to receive service from EchoStar on a replacement satellite.  QuetzSat-1 will enable better bandwidth utilization, provide back-up protection for our existing offerings, and could allow us to offer other value-added services.



·EchoStar XVI.  During 2009, we entered into a ten-year transponder service agreement with EchoStar to lease all of the capacity on EchoStar XVI, a DBS satellite.  EchoStar XVI will replace the satellites currently at the 61.5 degree orbital location and will allow us to offer other value-added services.  We will lease all of the satellite capacity from EchoStar on EchoStar XVI after its service commencement date and this lease generally terminates upon the earlier of:  (i) the end of life or replacement of the satellite; (ii) the date the satellite fails; (iii) the date the transponder(s)&n
bsp;on which service is being provided under the agreement fails; or (iv) ten years following the actual service commencement date.  Upon expiration of the initial term, we have the option to renew on a year-to-year basis through the end of life of the satellite.  There can be no assurance that any options to renew this agreement will be exercised.  EchoStar XVI is expected to be launched during the second half of 2012.



Satellite Anomalies



Operation of our programming service requires that we have adequate satellite transmission capacity for the programming we offer.  Moreover, current competitive conditions require that we continue to expand our offering of new programming, particularly by expanding local HD coverage and offering more HD national channels.  While we generally have had in-orbit satellite capacity sufficient to transmit our existing channels and some backup capacity to recover the transmission of certain critical programming, our backup capacity is limited.



In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may need to acquire or lease additional satellite capacity or relocate one of our other satellites and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite.  Such a failure could result in a prolonged loss of critical programming or a significant delay in our plans to expand programming as necessary to remain competitive and thus may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Prior to 2010, certain satellites in our fleet experienced anomalies, some of which have had a significant adverse impact on their remaining useful life and/or commercial operation.  There can be no assurance that future anomalies will not further impact the remaining useful life and/or commercial operation of any of these satellites.  See “Long-Lived Satellite Assets” below for further discussion of evaluation of impairment and Note 7 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  There can be no assurance that we can recover critical transmission capacity in the event one or more of our in-orbit satellites were to fail.  We do











not anticipate carrying insurance for any of the in-orbit satellites that we use, and we will bear the risk associated with any in-orbit satellite failures.  Recent developments with respect to certain of our satellites are discussed below.



Owned Satellites



EchoStar VII.EchoStar VII, which is being used as an in-orbit spare, was designed with four gyros, of which three are required to properly control the positioning of the satellite.  During October 2010, EchoStar VII experienced an anomaly which caused one of its gyros to temporarily stop functioning.  Testing during December 2010 confirmed that this gyro is functioning again.  In addition, during July 2010, EchoStar VII experienced a thruster anomaly.  Thrusters control spacecraft location and maintain spacecraft pointing.  While these anomalies did not reduce the estimated useful life of the satellite to less than 12 years or impact commercial operation of the satellite, there can be no assurance that future anomalies will not reduce its useful life or impact its comme
rcial operation.



EchoStar X.EchoStar X was designed with 49 spot beams which use up to 42 active 140 watt traveling wave tube amplifiers (“TWTAs”) and 24 solar array circuits, of which approximately 22 are required to assure full power for the original minimum 12-year useful life of the satellite.  During May and September of 2010, EchoStar X experienced anomalies which affected seven solar array circuits reducing the number of functional solar array circuits to 17.  While these anomalies did not reduce the estimated useful life of the satellite to less than 12 years or impact commercial operation of the satellite based on the satellite’s current configuration, there can be no assurance that future anomalies will not red
uce its useful life or impact its commercial operation.



Leased Satellites



EchoStar VI.EchoStar VI was designed with 108 solar array strings, of which approximately 102 are required to assure full power availability for the original minimum 12-year useful life of the satellite.  During March and August of 2010,EchoStar VI experienced anomalies resulting in the loss of 24 solar array strings, reducing the number of functional solar array strings to 84. While these anomalies did not reduce the estimated useful life of the satellite to less than 12 years, commercial operation has been impacted and there can be no assurance that future anomalies will not reduce its useful life or further impact its commercial operation.  The satellite was designed to operate 32 DBS transponders in CONUS at approximately 125 watts per channel, switchable to 16 DBS transponder
s operating at approximately 250 watts per channel.  The power reduction resulting from the solar array failures currently limits us to operating 24 DBS transponders in CONUS at approximately 125 watts per channel, switchable to 12 DBS transponders operating at approximately 250 watts per channel.  The number of transponders to which power can be provided is expected to decline in the future at the rate of approximately one transponder every three years.



EchoStar VIII.  EchoStar VIII was designed to operate 32 DBS transponders in CONUS at approximately 120 watts per channel, switchable to 16 DBS transponders operating at approximately 240 watts per channel.  EchoStar VIII was also designed with spot-beam technology.  This satellite has experienced several anomalies prior to 2011, but none have reduced its useful life or impacted its commercial operation.  During January 2011, the satellite experienced an anomaly, which temporarily disrupted electrical power to some components causing an interruption of broadcast service.  Testing is being performed to determine if this anomaly will reduce the satellite’s useful life or impact its commercial operations.  There can be no assurance that this anomaly or any future anomalies will n
ot reduce its useful life or impact its commercial operation.



Long-Lived Satellite Assets



We evaluate our satellite fleet for impairment as one asset group and test for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable.  While certain of the anomalies discussed above, and previously disclosed, may be considered to represent a significant adverse change in the physical condition of an individual satellite, based on the redundancy designed within each satellite and considering the asset grouping, these anomalies are not considered to be significant events that would require evaluation for impairment recognition.  Unless and until a specific satellite is abandoned or otherwise determined to have no service potential, the net carrying amount related to the satellite would not be written off.











GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS



DBS operators are subject to significant government regulation, primarily by the FCC and, to a certain extent, by Congress, other federal agencies and foreign, state and local authorities.  Depending upon the circumstances, noncompliance with legislation or regulations promulgated by these entities could result in the suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, the termination or loss of contracts or the imposition of contractual damages, civil fines or criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Furthermore, the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business.  If we become subject to new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of e
xisting regulations or legislation that govern Internet network neutrality, we may be required to incur additional expenses or alter our business model.  The manner in which legislation governing Internet network neutrality may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



The following summary of regulatory developments and legislation in the United States is not intended to describe all present and proposed government regulation and legislation affecting the satellite and video programming distribution industries.  Government regulations that are currently the subject of judicial or administrative proceedings, legislative hearings or administrative proposals could change our industry to varying degrees.  We cannot predict either the outcome of these proceedings or any potential impact they might have on the industry or on our operations.



FCC Regulation under the Communications Act



FCC Jurisdiction over our Operations.The Communications Act gives the FCC broad authority to regulate the operations of satellite companies.  Specifically, the Communications Act gives the FCC regulatory jurisdiction over the following areas relating to communications satellite operations:



·the assignment of satellite radio frequencies and orbital locations, the licensing of satellites and earth stations, the granting of related authorizations, and evaluation of the fitness of a company to be a licensee;

·approval for the relocation of satellites to different orbital locations or the replacement of an existing satellite with a new satellite;

·ensuring compliance with the terms and conditions of such assignments, licenses, authorizations and approvals; including required timetables for construction and operation of satellites;

·avoiding interference with other radio frequency emitters; and

·ensuring compliance with other applicable provisions of the Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations.



To obtain FCC satellite licenses and authorizations, satellite operators must satisfy strict legal, technical and financial qualification requirements.  Once issued, these licenses and authorizations are subject to a number of conditions including, among other things, satisfaction of ongoing due diligence obligations, construction milestones, and various reporting requirements.  Necessary federal approval of these applications may not be granted, may not be granted in a timely manner, or may be granted subject to conditions which may be cumbersome.



Overview of our Satellites, Authorizations and Contractual Rights for Satellite Capacity.Our satellites are located in orbital positions, or slots, that are designated by their western longitude.  An orbital position describes both a physical location and an assignment of spectrum in the applicable frequency band.  Each DBS orbital position has 500 MHz of available Ku-band spectrum that is divided into 32 frequency channels.  Through digital compression technology, we can currently transmit between nine and 13 standard definition digital video channels per DBS frequency channel.  Several of our satellites also include spot-beam technology which enables us to increase the number of markets where we provide local channe
ls, but reduces the number of video channels that could otherwise be offered across the entire United States.











The FCC has licensed us to operate a total of 82 DBS frequencies at the following orbital locations:



·21 DBS frequencies at the 119 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to CONUS;

·29 DBS frequencies at the 110 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to CONUS; and

·32 DBS frequencies at the 148 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to the Western United States.



We currently do not have any satellites positioned at the 148 degree orbital location as a result of the retirement of EchoStar V.  While we have requested the necessary approval from the FCC for the continued use of this orbital location, there can be no assurance that the FCC will determine that our proposed future use of this orbital location complies fully with all licensing requirements.



In addition, we currently lease or have entered into agreements to lease capacity on satellites using the following spectrum at the following orbital locations:



·500 MHz of Ku-band FSS spectrum that is divided into 32 frequency channels (each of which is capable of transmitting between five and eight standard definition digital video channels) at the 118.7 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian FSS slot that is capable of providing service to the continental United States, Alaska and Hawaii;

·32 DBS frequencies at the 129 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian DBS slot that is capable of providing service to most of the United States;

·32 DBS frequencies at the 61.5 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to most of the United States;

·24 DBS frequencies at the 77 degree orbital location, which is a Mexican DBS slot that is capable of providing service to most of the United States and Mexico; and

·32 DBS frequencies at the 72.7 degree orbital location, which is a Canadian DBS slot that is capable of providing service to the United States.  We and EchoStar are currently receiving service on 23 of these DBS transponders and will receive service on the remaining nine DBS transponders over a phase-in period that will be completed in 2012.



We also have month-to-month FSS capacity available from EchoStar on satellites located at the 105 and 121 degree orbital locations.



700 MHz Spectrum.  In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009.  To commercialize these licenses and satisfy FCC build-out requirements, we will be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others.  Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization and build-out, any such investment or partnership could vary significantly.  Part or all of our licenses may be terminated for failure to satisfy FCC build-out requirements.  We are currently performing a market test to evaluate different technologies and consumer acceptance.



Other Wireless Spectrum.  In 2010, we purchased all of South.com L.L.C., which is an entity that holds Multichannel Video Distribution & Data Service (“MVDDS”) licenses in 37 markets in the United States.



Duration of our DBS Satellite Licenses.  Generally speaking, all of our satellite licenses are subject to expiration unless renewed by the FCC.  The term of each of our DBS licenses is ten years.  Our licenses are currently set to expire at various times.  In addition, our special temporary authorization is granted for a period of only 180 days or less, subject again to possible renewal by the FCC.  Generally, our FCC licenses and special temporary authorization have been renewed by the FCC on a routine basis but, there can be no assurance that the FCC will continue to do so.



Opposition and other Risks to our Licenses.  Several third parties have opposed, and we expect them to continue to oppose, some of our FCC satellite authorizations and pending requests to the FCC for extensions, modifications, waivers and approvals of our licenses.  In addition, we may not have fully complied with all of the FCC reporting, filing and other requirements in connection with our satellite authorizations.  Consequently, it is possible the FCC could revoke, terminate, condition or decline to extend or renew certain of our authorizations or licenses.











FCC Actions Affecting our Licenses and Applications.  A number of our other applications have been denied or dismissed without prejudice by the FCC, or remain pending.  We cannot be sure that the FCC will grant any of our outstanding applications, or that the authorizations, if granted, will not be subject to onerous conditions.  Moreover, the cost of building, launching and insuring a satellite can be as much as $300 million or more.  If we are unable to construct and launch any of the satellites for which we have requested authorizations, it may result in further FCC restrictions on our operations.



4.5 Degree Spacing Tweener Satellites.  The FCC has proposed to allow so-called “tweener” DBS operations — DBS satellites operating from orbital locations 4.5 degrees (half of the usual nine degrees) away from other DBS satellites.  The FCC has already granted authorizations to Spectrum Five and EchoStar for tweener satellites at the 114.5 and 86.5 degree orbital locations, respectively.  Certain tweener operations, as proposed, could cause harmful interference into our service and constrain our future operations.  The FCC has not completed its rulemaking on the operating and service rules for tweener satellites.



Interference from Other Services Sharing Satellite Spectrum.  The FCC has adopted rules that allow non-geostationary orbit fixed satellite services to operate on a co-primary basis in the same frequency band as DBS and Ku-band-based fixed satellite services.  The FCC has also authorized the use of MVDDS in the DBS band.  MVDDS licenses were auctioned in 2004.  Despite regulatory provisions to protect DBS operations from harmful interference, there can be no assurance that operations by other satellites or terrestrial communication services in the DBS band will not interfere with our DBS operations and adversely affect our business.



International Satellite Competition and Interference.  DirecTV and Spectrum Five have obtained FCC authority to provide service to the United States from a Canadian DBS orbital slot, and EchoStar has obtained authority to provide service to the United States from both a Mexican and a Canadian DBS orbital slot.  Further, we have also received authority to do the same from a Canadian DBS orbital slot at 129 degrees and a Canadian FSS orbital slot at 118.7 degrees.  The possibility that the FCC will allow service to the U.S. from additional foreign slots may permit additional competition against us from other satellite providers.  It may also provide a means by which to increase our available satellite capacity in the United States.  In addition, a number of administrations, such as Great Brita
in and the Netherlands, have requested to add orbital locations serving the U.S. close to our licensed slots.  Such operations could cause harmful interference to our satellites and constrain our future operations.



Rules Relating to Broadcast Services.  The FCC imposes different rules for “subscription” and “broadcast” services.  We believe that because we offer a subscription programming service, we are not subject to many of the regulatory obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees.  However, we cannot be certain whether the FCC will find in the future that we must comply with regulatory obligations as a broadcast licensee, and certain parties have requested that we be treated as a broadcaster.  If the FCC determines that we are a broadcast licensee, it could require us to comply with all regulatory obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees, which in certain respects are subject to more burdensome regulation than subscription television service providers.



Public Interest Requirements.  The FCC imposes certain public interest obligations on our DBS licenses.  These obligations require us to set aside four percent of our channel capacity exclusively for noncommercial programming for which we must charge programmers below-cost rates and for which we may not impose additional charges on subscribers.  The Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010 (“STELA”) requires the FCC to decrease this set-aside to 3.5 percent for satellite carriers who provide retransmission of state public affairs networks in 15 states and are otherwise qualified.  The FCC, however, has not yet determined whether we qualify for this decrease in set-aside.  The obligation to provide noncommercial programming may displace programming for which we could 
earn commercial rates and could adversely affect our financial results.  We cannot be sure that, if the FCC were to review our methodology for processing public interest carriage requests, computing the channel capacity we must set aside or determining the rates that we charge public interest programmers, it would find them in compliance with the public interest requirements.



Separate Security, Plug and Play.Cable companies are required by law to separate the security from the other functionality of their set-top boxes.  Set-top boxes used by DBS providers are not currently subject to such separate security requirement.  However, the FCC is considering a possible expansion of that requirement to DBS set-top boxes.  Also, the FCC has adopted the so-called “plug and play” standard for compatibility between digital television sets and cable systems.  That standard was developed through negotiations involving the cable and











consumer electronics industries, but not us.  The FCC is considering various proposals to establish two-way digital cable “plug and play” rules.  That proceeding also asks about means to incorporate all pay-TV providers into its “plug and play” rules.  The cable industry and consumer electronics companies have reached a “tru2way” commercial arrangement to resolve many of the outstanding issues in this docket.  We cannot predict whether the FCC will impose rules on our DBS operations that are based on cable system architectures or the private cable/consumer electronics tru2way commercial arrangement.  Complying with the separate security and other “plug and play” requirements would require potentially costly modifications to our set-top boxes and operations.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of this FCC proceeding.



Retransmission Consent.



Digital HD Carry-One, Carry-All Requirement.To provide any full-power local broadcast signal in any market, we are required to retransmit all qualifying broadcast signals in that market (“carry-one, carry-all”).  The FCC has adopted digital carriage rules that require DBS providers to phase in carry-one, carry-all obligations with respect to the carriage of full-power broadcasters’ HD signals by February 2013 in markets in which DISH Network elects to provide local channels in HD.  In addition, STELA has imposed accelerated HD carriage requirements for noncommercial educational stations on DBS providers that do not have a certain contractual relationship with a certain number of 
such stations.  DISH Network has entered into an agreement with a number of PBS stations to comply with the requirements.  DISH Network has also challenged the constitutionality of this provision but has not prevailed in its effort to obtain temporary injunctive relief.  The carriage of additional HD signals on our DBS system could cause us to experience significant capacity constraints and prevent us from carrying additional popular national programs and/or carrying those national programs in HD.



In addition, there is a pending rulemaking before the FCC regarding whether to require DBS providers to carry all broadcast stations in a local market in both standard definition and HD if they carry any station in that market in both standard definition and HD.  If we were required to carry multiple versions of each broadcast station, we would have to dedicate more of our finite satellite capacity to each broadcast station.  We cannot predict the outcome or timing of that rulemaking process.



Distant Signals.Pursuant to STELA, we have been able to obtain a waiver of a court injunction that previously prevented us from retransmitting certain distant network signals under a statutory copyright license.  Because of that waiver, we may once again provide distant network signals to eligible subscribers.  To qualify for that waiver, we are required to provide local service in all 210 local markets in the U.S. on an ongoing basis.  This condition poses a significant strain on our capacity.  Moreover, we may lose that waiver if we are found to have failed to provide local service in any of the 210 local markets.  If we lose the waiver, the injunction could be reinstated.  Furthermore, depending on the sev
erity of the failure, we may also be subject to other sanctions, which may include, among other things, damages.  Our compliance with certain conditions for the waiver is subject to examination and review.



Dependence on Cable Act for Program Access.We purchase a large percentage of our programming from cable-affiliated programmers.  The provisions of the Cable Act of 1992, as amended (“Cable Act”), prohibiting exclusive contracting practices with cable-affiliated programmers, were extended for another five-year period in September 2007.  Cable companies appealed the FCC’s decision, and while that decision was upheld by the United States Court











of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (“D.C. Circuit”) in March 2010, that court indicated if the market continues to evolve, it is expected that the exclusivity prohibition may no longer be necessary.  Any change in the Cable Act and the FCC’s rules that permit the cable industry or cable-affiliated programmers to discriminate against competing businesses, such as ours, in the sale of programming could adversely affect our ability to acquire cable-affiliated programming at all or to acquire programming on a cost-effective basis.  As a result, we may be limited in our ability to obtain access on nondiscriminatory terms to programming from programmers that are affiliated with cable system operators.  In the case of certain types of programming affiliated with Comcast, Time-Warner Cable, and Liberty, the terms of access to the programming are subject to arbitratio
n if we and the programmer cannot reach agreement on terms, subject to FCC review.  We cannot be sure that this procedure will result in favorable terms for us or that the FCC conditions that establish this procedure will be allowed to expire on their own terms.



In addition, affiliates of certain cable providers have denied us access to sports programming they feed to their cable systems terrestrially, rather than by satellite.  The FCC recently held that new denials of such service are unfair if they have the purpose or effect of significantly hindering us from providing programming to consumers.  However, we cannot be sure that we can prevail in a complaint related to such programming and gain access to it.  Our continuing failure to access such programming could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete in regions serviced by these cable providers.



MDU Exclusivity.  The FCC has found that cable companies should not be permitted to have exclusive relationships with multiple dwelling units (e.g., apartment buildings).  In May 2009, the D.C. Circuit upheld the FCC’s decision.  While the FCC requested comments in November 2007 on whether DBS and Private Cable Operators (“PCOs”) should be prohibited from having similar relationships with multiple dwelling units, it has yet to make a formal decision.  If the cable exclusivity ban were to be extended to DBS providers, our ability to serve these types of buildings and communities would be adversely affected.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of the FCC’s consideration of this proposal.



Net Neutrality.The FCC has recently imposed rules of nondiscrimination and transparency upon wireline broadband providers.  While this decision provides certain protection from discrimination by wireline broadband providers against our distribution of video content via the Internet, it may still permit wireline broadband providers to provide certain services over their wireline broadband network that are not subject to these requirements.  Although the FCC imposed similar transparency requirements on wireless broadband providers, it declined to impose the same nondiscrimination rule.  Instead, wireless broadband Internet providers are prohibited from blocking websites and applications that compete with voice and video telephony services.  The FCC’s net neutrality rules have 
been challenged in federal court and could be overturned if those challenges are successful.  Furthermore, it is uncertain how these requirements may be interpreted and enforced by the FCC; therefore, we cannot predict the practical effect of these rules on our ability to distribute our video content via the Internet.



Comcast/NBC Universal Transaction.  Comcast and General Electric have joined their programming properties, including NBC, Bravo and many others, in a venture to be controlled by Comcast.  In January 2011, the transaction was approved by the FCC and the Department of Justice.  The FCC conditioned its approval on, among other things, Comcast complying with the terms of the FCC’s recent order on network neutrality (even if that order is vacated by judicial or legislative action) and Comcast licensing its affiliated content to us, other traditional pay-TV providers and certain providers of video services over the Internet on fair and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, including, among others, price.  If Comcast does not license its affiliated content to us on fair and nondiscriminatory
 terms and conditions, we can seek arbitration and continue to carry such content while the arbitration is pending.  However, it is uncertain how these conditions may be interpreted and enforced by the FCC; therefore, we cannot predict the practical effect of these conditions.



The International Telecommunication Union



Our DBS system also must conform to the ITU broadcasting satellite service plan for Region 2 (which includes the United States).  If any of our operations are not consistent with this plan, the ITU will only provide authorization on a non-interference basis pending successful modification of the plan or the agreement of all affected administrations to the non-conforming operations.  Accordingly, unless and until the ITU modifies its broadcasting satellite service plan to include the technical parameters of DBS applicants’ operations, our satellites, along with those of other DBS operators, must not cause harmful electrical interference with other assignments that are in conformance with the











plan.  Further, certain of our DBS satellites are not presently entitled to any protection from other satellites that are in conformance with the plan.



Export Control Regulation



The delivery of satellites and related technical information for the purpose of launch by foreign launch services providers is subject to strict export control and prior approval requirements.



PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY



Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services that we offer.  In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products or services infringes on intellectual property held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost, or to redesign those products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing the patent claims.  If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to obtain the intellectual property at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position.



We may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that our products or services may potentially infringe.  In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until the Patent and Trademark Office either publishes the application or issues a patent (whichever arises first) and, accordingly, our products may infringe claims contained in pending patent applications of which we are not aware.  Further, the process of determining definitively whether a claim of infringement is valid often involves expensive and protracted litigation, even if we are ultimately successful on the merits.



We cannot estimate the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain intellectual property licenses or the availability and cost of any such licenses.  Those costs, and their impact on our results of operations, could be material.  Damages in patent infringement cases may also be trebled in certain circumstances.  To the extent that we are required to pay unanticipated royalties to third parties, these increased costs of doing business could negatively affect our liquidity and operating results.  We are currently defending multiple patent infringement actions.  We cannot be certain the courts will conclude these companies do not own the rights they claim, that our products do not infringe on these rights, that we would be able to obtain licenses from these persons on commercially reasonable terms or, if we were unable to obtain such licenses, that we would be able to redesi
gn our products to avoid infringement.  See “Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.”



ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS



We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations.  These include laws regulating air emissions, water discharge and waste management.  We attempt to maintain compliance with all such requirements.  We do not expect capital or other expenditures for environmental compliance to be material in 2011 or 2012.  Environmental requirements are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time.  Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that these requirements will not change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business.



SEGMENT REPORTING DATA AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA



Following the Spin-off, we operate in only one reportable segment, the DISH Network segment, which provides a DBS subscription television service in the United States.



EMPLOYEES



We had approximately 22,000 employees at December 31, 2010, most of whom are located in the United States.  We generally consider relations with our employees to be good.











Approximately 64 employees in three of our field offices have voted to have a union represent them in contract negotiations.  While we are not currently a party to any collective bargaining agreements, we are currently negotiating collective bargaining agreements at these offices.



WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION



We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and accordingly file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.  The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room.  As an electronic filer, our public filings are also maintained on the SEC’s Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov.



WEBSITE ACCESS



Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act also may be accessed free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC.  The address of that website is http://www.dishnetwork.com.



We have adopted a written code of ethics that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance with Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the SEC promulgated thereunder.  Our code of ethics is available on our corporate website at http://www.dishnetwork.com.  In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers of, the provisions of this code of ethics that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events on our website.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

(furnished in accordance with Item 401 (b) of Regulation S-K, pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K)



The following table and information below sets forth the name, age and position with DISH Network of each of our executive officers, the period during which each executive officer has served as such, and each executive officer’s business experience during the past five years:



NameAgePositionCharles   W. Ergen57Chairman,   President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorW.   Erik Carlson41Executive   Vice President, DNS and Service OperationsThomas   A. Cullen51Executive   Vice President, Sales, Marketing and ProgrammingJames   DeFranco58Executive   Vice President and DirectorR.   Stanton Dodge43Executive   Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryBernard   L. Han46Executive   Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerMichael   Kelly49Executive   Vice President, Direct, Commercial and Advertising SalesRoger   J. Lynch48Executive   Vice President, Advanced TechnologiesRobert   E. Olson51Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerStephen   W. Wood52Executive   Vice President, Human Resources



Charles W. Ergen.Mr. Ergen has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of DISH Network since its formation and, during the past five years, has held various executive officer and director positions with DISH Network’s subsidiaries.  Mr. Ergen also serves as Chairman of EchoStar.  Mr. Ergen was appointed President of DISH Network in February 2008.  Mr. Ergen, along with his spouse, Cantey Ergen, and James DeFranco, was a co-founder of DISH Network in 1980.



W. Erik Carlson.Mr. Carlson has served as our Executive Vice President, DNS and Service Operations since February 2008 and is responsible for overseeing our residential and commercial installations, customer billing and equipment retrieval and refurbishment operations.  Mr. Carlson previously was Senior Vice President of Retail











Services, a position he held since mid-2006.  He joined DISH Network in 1995 and has held progressively larger operating roles over the years.



Thomas A. Cullen.Mr. Cullen has served as our Executive Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Programming since April 2009.  Mr. Cullen served as our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development from December 2006 until April 2009.  Before joining DISH Network, Mr. Cullen served as President of TensorComm, a venture-backed wireless technology company.  From August 2003 to April 2005, Mr. Cullen was with Charter Communications Inc. (“Charter”), serving as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services and Business Development from August 2003 until he was promoted to Executive Vice President in August 2004.



James DeFranco.Mr. DeFranco is one of our Executive Vice Presidents and has been one of our vice presidents and a member of the Board of Directors since our formation.  During the past five years he has held various executive officer and director positions with our subsidiaries.  Mr. DeFranco co-founded DISH Network with Charles W. Ergen and Cantey Ergen, in 1980.



R. Stanton Dodge.Mr. Dodge has served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of DISH Network since June 2007 and is responsible for legal and government affairs, human resources and corporate communication for DISH Network and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Dodge also serves as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and is responsible for all legal and government affairs for EchoStar and its subsidiaries pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and EchoStar.  Since joining DISH Network in November 1996, he has held various positions of increasing responsibility in DISH Network’s legal department.



Bernard L. Han.Mr. Han has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2009 and is in charge of operations, information technology, accounting and finance functions of DISH Network.  Mr. Han served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of DISH Network from September 2006 until April 2009.  Mr. Han also served as EchoStar’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2008 to June 2010 pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and EchoStar.  From October 2002 to May 2005, Mr. Han served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Northwest Airlines, Inc.



Michael Kelly.Mr. Kelly is currently the Executive Vice President, Direct, Commercial and Advertising Sales.  Mr. Kelly served as the Executive Vice President of DISH Network Service L.L.C. and Customer Service from February 2004 until December 2005.



Roger J. Lynch.Mr. Lynch has served as our Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies since November 2009.  Mr. Lynch also serves as Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies at EchoStar.  Prior to joining DISH Network, Mr. Lynch served as Chairman and CEO of Video Networks International, Ltd., an IPTV technology company in the United Kingdom from 2002 until 2009.



Robert E. Olson.Mr. Olson has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2009.Mr. Olson was the Chief Financial Officer of Trane Commercial Systems, the largest operating division of American Standard, from April 2006 to August 2008.  From April 2003 to January 2006, Mr. Olson served as the Chief Financial Officer of AT&T’s Consumer Services division and later its Business Services division.



Stephen W. Wood.Mr. Wood has served as our Executive Vice President, Human Resources since May 2006 and is responsible for all human resource functions of DISH Network and its subsidiaries.  Prior to joining DISH Network, Mr. Wood served as an Executive Vice President for Gate Gourmet International from 2004 to 2006.



There are no arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which any executive officer was selected as such.  Pursuant to the Bylaws of DISH Network, executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.











