Item 1:  Business



The
Company

W.W. Grainger, Inc.,
incorporated in the State of Illinois in 1928, distributes facilities
maintenance products and provides related services and information used by
businesses and institutions primarily in the United States, Canada, Japan and
Mexico to keep their facilities and equipment running. In this report, the words
“Grainger” or “Company” mean W.W. Grainger, Inc. and its
subsidiaries.



Grainger is the
leading broad-line supplier of facilities maintenance and other related products
and services in North America. Grainger uses a multichannel business model to
provide customers with a range of options for finding and purchasing products
utilizing sales representatives, direct marketing materials and
catalogs.  Grainger serves approximately 2.0 million customers through
a network of highly integrated branches, distribution centers and multiple Web
sites.



During 2009,
Grainger acquired two businesses in the United States and one in
Canada.  Grainger also obtained a controlling interest in a business
in India at 100% and in Japan at 53%.  Their results are consolidated
with Grainger from the acquisition dates.



Grainger’s two
reportable segments are the United States and Canada.  In the first
quarter of 2009, Grainger integrated the Lab Safety business into the Grainger
Industrial Supply business and results are now reported under the United States
segment.  The Canada segment reflects the results for Acklands –
Grainger Inc. Other businesses include the following:  MonotaRO Co.,
Ltd. (Japan), Grainger, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico), Grainger Industrial Supply India
Private Limited (India), Grainger Caribe Inc. (Puerto Rico), Grainger China LLC
(China) and Grainger Panama S.A. (Panama).  These businesses generate
revenue through the distribution of facilities maintenance products and provide
related services and information.  Prior year segment amounts have
been restated in a consistent manner.  For segment and geographical
information and consolidated net sales and operating earnings see“Item
7:  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations”and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.



Grainger has
internal business support functions that provide coordination and guidance in
the areas of accounting and finance, business development, communications and
investor relations, compensation and benefits, information systems, health and
safety, human resources, risk management, internal audit, legal, real estate,
security, tax and treasury. These services are provided in varying degrees to
all business units.



Grainger does not
engage in product research and development activities. Items are regularly added
to and deleted from Grainger’s product lines on the basis of customer demand,
market research, recommendations of suppliers, sales volumes and other
factors.



United
States

The
United States business offers a broad selection of facilities maintenance and
other products and provides related services and information through local
branches, catalogs and the Internet. In the first quarter of 2009, the Lab
Safety business was integrated into the U.S. branch-based business. In addition,
two companies were acquired in 2009, Imperial Supplies LLC (Imperial) and
Alliance Energy Solutions (Alliance), further broadening the product offering of
the United States business. Imperial is a national distributor of quality
maintenance products and aftermarket components for the vehicle and fleet
industry; Alliance offers value-added services that help customers drive energy
efficiency and productivity, with particular expertise in the area of lighting
retrofits.



Grainger’s United
States business offers a combination of product breadth, local availability,
speed of delivery, detailed product information and competitively priced
products and services. Products offered include material handling equipment,
safety and security supplies, lighting and electrical products, power and hand
tools, pumps and plumbing supplies, cleaning and maintenance supplies, forestry
and agriculture equipment, building and home inspection supplies, vehicle and
fleet components and many other items primarily focused on the facilities
maintenance market. Services offered include inventory management and energy
efficiency solutions.



The
United States business operates more than 400 branches located in all 50 states.
These branches are located in close proximity to the majority of U.S. businesses
and serve the immediate needs of customers in their local markets by allowing
them to pick up items directly from the branches.  Branches range in
size from small branches to large master branches. The branch network has
approximately 5,000 employees who primarily fulfill counter and will-call
product needs and provide customer service. An average branch is 22,000 square
feet in size, has 12 employees and handles about 110 transactions per day. In
2009, three branches were opened and 17 branches were closed.



The logistics
network is comprised of a network of 14 distribution centers (DCs) of various
sizes, four of which were acquired in a business acquisition during 2009.
Automated equipment and processes in the larger DCs allow them to handle the
majority of the customer shipping for next day availability and replenish over
400 branches that provide same day availability.3

The
business has a sales force of approximately 2,400 professionals who help
businesses and institutions select the right products to reduce operating
expenses and improve cash flow, and find immediate solutions to maintenance
problems. Customers range from small and medium-sized businesses to large
corporations, governmental entities and other institutions and are primarily
represented by purchasing managers or workers in facilities maintenance
departments and service shops across a wide range of industries such as:
manufacturing, hospitality, transportation, government, retail, healthcare and
education. Sales transactions during 2009 were made to approximately 1.7 million
customers averaging 95,000 daily transactions. No single customer accounted for
more than 5% of total sales.



The
majority of the products sold by the United States business are national branded
products.  Approximately 24% of 2009 sales consisted of private label
items bearing Grainger’s registered trademarks, including DAYTON® motors,
SPEEDAIRE® air compressors, AIR HANDLER® air filtration equipment, DEM-KOTE®
spray paints, WESTWARD® tools, CONDOR™ safety products and LUMAPRO® lighting
products. Grainger has taken steps to protect these trademarks against
infringement and believes that they will remain available for future use in its
business. Sales of the remaining items generally consisted of products carrying
the names of other well-recognized brands.



The
Grainger catalog, most recently issued in February 2010, offers approximately
307,000 facilities maintenance and other products and is used by customers,
sales representatives and branch personnel to assist in customer product
selection. Approximately 2.4 million copies of the catalog were produced. In
addition, Grainger’s United States business issues target catalogs for its
multiple branded products, as well as other marketing materials.



Customers can also
purchase products through grainger.com. With access to more than 600,000
products, grainger.com serves as a prominent channel for the United States
business.  Grainger.com provides real-time price and product
availability and detailed product information and offers advanced features such
as product search and compare capabilities. For customers with sophisticated
electronic purchasing platforms, Grainger utilizes technology that allows these
systems to communicate directly with grainger.com.  Customers can also
purchase products through several other branded Web sites.



The
United States business purchases products for sale from approximately 2,300 key
suppliers, most of which are manufacturers. No single supplier comprised more
than 2% of total purchases and no significant difficulty has been encountered
with respect to sources of supply.



Through a global
sourcing operation, the business procures competitively priced, high-quality
products produced outside the United States from approximately
340 suppliers. Grainger sells these items primarily under private label
brands. Products obtained through the global sourcing operation include DAYTON®
motors, WESTWARD® tools, LUMAPRO® lighting products and CONDOR™ safety products,
as well as products bearing other trademarks.



Canada

Acklands – Grainger
is Canada’s leading broad-line distributor of industrial and safety supplies. In
2009, Acklands – Grainger acquired substantially all of the assets of the
K&D Pratt Industrial Division, a distributor of industrial and safety
products located in eastern Canada.  The Canadian business serves
customers through more than 160 branches and five DCs across Canada. Acklands –
Grainger distributes tools, fasteners, safety supplies, instruments, welding and
shop equipment, and many other items. During 2009, approximately 13,000 sales
transactions were completed daily. A comprehensive catalog, printed in both
English and French, showcases the product line to facilitate the customer’s
product selection. This catalog, with more than 75,000 products, is used by
customers, sales account managers and branch personnel to assist in customer
product selection. In addition, customers can purchase products through
acklandsgrainger.com, a fully bilingual website.



Other
Businesses

Included in the
other businesses are the operations in Japan, Mexico, India, Puerto Rico, China,
and Panama.  The more significant businesses in this group are
described below.



Japan

Grainger operates in
Japan through a 53% interest in MonotaRO Co., Ltd.
(MonotaRO).  MonotaRO provides small and mid-sized domestic businesses
with products that help them operate and maintain their
facilities.  MonotaRO is a catalog and a Web-based direct marketer
with approximately 70 percent of orders being conducted through the company’s
Web site, monotaro.com.



Mexico

Grainger’s
operations in Mexico provide local businesses with facilities maintenance
products and other products from both Mexico and the United States. Mexico
distributes products through a network of DCs and branches where customers have
access to approximately 59,000 products through a Spanish-language catalog and
through grainger.com.mx.4

China

Grainger operates in
China from a DC in Shanghai and has 10 sales offices throughout China that allow
sales representatives to work remotely and meet with customers. Customers have
access to approximately 59,000 products through a Chinese-language catalog and
through grainger.com.cn.



Seasonality

Grainger’s business
in general is not seasonal, however, there are some products that typically sell
more often during the winter or summer season.  In any given month,
unusual weather patterns, i.e., unusually hot or cold weather, could impact the
sales volumes of these products, either positively or negatively.



Competition

Grainger faces
competition in all markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its
own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale
distributors, catalog houses, retail enterprises and Internet-based
businesses.



Grainger provides
local product availability, a broad product line, sales representatives,
competitive pricing, catalogs (which include product descriptions and, in
certain cases, extensive technical and application data), electronic and
Internet commerce technology and other services such as inventory management and
energy efficiency solutions to assist customers in lowering their total
facilities maintenance costs. Grainger believes that it can effectively compete
with manufacturers on small orders, but manufacturers may have an advantage in
filling large orders.



Grainger serves a
number of diverse markets. Based on available data, Grainger estimates the North
American market for facilities maintenance and related products to be more than
$160 billion, of which Grainger’s share is approximately 4 percent. There
are several large competitors, although most of the market is served by small
local and regional competitors.



Employees

As
of December 31, 2009, Grainger had 18,000 employees, of whom 16,500 were
full-time and 1,500 were part-time or temporary. Grainger has never had a major
work stoppage and considers employee relations to be good.



Web
Site Access to Company Reports

Grainger makes
available, free of charge, through its Web site, its Annual Report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements
and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after this
material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. This material may be accessed by visitinggrainger.com/investor.



