Item 1: Business

The Company

W.W. Grainger, Inc., incorporated in the State of Illinois in 1928, is a broad-line distributor of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products and services used by businesses and institutions primarily in the United States and Canada, with expanding global operations. In this report, the words “Grainger” or “Company” mean W.W. Grainger, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

Grainger uses a multichannel business model to provide customers with a range of options for finding and purchasing products utilizing sales representatives, direct marketing materials,  catalogs and eCommerce. Grainger serves approximately2.0 millioncustomers worldwide through a network of highly integrated branches, distribution centers, multiple websites and export services.

During 2011,Grainger acquired the Fabory Group, a European distributor of fasteners and related maintenance, repair and operating products, representing Grainger's first entry into the European market.  See the Other Businesses  discussion below for a description of this business.

Grainger’s two reportable segments are the United States and Canada. The United States segment reflects the results of Grainger’s U.S. business. The Canada segment reflects the results for Acklands – Grainger Inc. (Acklands – Grainger), Grainger’s Canadian business. Other businesses include the following significant operations: the Fabory Group, MonotaRO, Mexico, China and Colombia. These businesses generate revenue through the distribution of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and products and provide related services. For segment and geographical information and consolidated net sales and operating earnings see “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Grainger has centralized business support functions that provide coordination and guidance in the areas of accounting and finance, business development, communications and investor relations, compensation and benefits, information systems, health and safety, global supply chain functions, human resources, risk management, internal audit, legal, real estate, security, tax and treasury. These services are provided in varying degrees to all business units.

Grainger does not engage in product research and development activities. Items are regularly added to and deleted from Grainger’s product lines on the basis of customer demand, market research, recommendations of suppliers, sales volumes and other factors.

United States

The United States business offers a broad selection of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products and services through local branches, catalogs and the Internet. A combination of product breadth, local availability, speed of delivery, detailed product information and competitively priced products and services is provided by this business. Products offered include material handling equipment, safety and security supplies, lighting and electrical products, power and hand tools, pumps and plumbing supplies, cleaning and maintenance supplies, forestry and agriculture equipment, building and home inspection supplies, vehicle and fleet components and many other items primarily focused on the facilities maintenance market. Services offered include inventory management and energy efficiency solutions.

The United States business operates in all 50 states through a network of368branches. These branches are located in close proximity to the majority of U.S. businesses and serve the immediate needs of customers in their local markets by allowing them to pick up items directly from the branches. Branches range in size from small branches to large master branches. The branch network has approximately4,700employees who primarily fulfill counter and will-call product purchases and provide customer service. An average branch is23,000square feet in size, has13employees and handles about160transactions per day. In the normal course of business, Grainger continually reviews the effectiveness of its branch network. In 2011,35branches were closed and one opened.  The number of branch closures during 2011 reflects the shift of volume from counter and will-call purchases to shipments out of the distribution centers.

The logistics network in the United States is comprised of a network of15distribution centers (DCs) of various sizes.  In 2011, a new DC was opened and began operations in northern California.  Automated equipment and processes in the larger DCs allow them to handle the majority of the customer shipping for next-day product availability and replenish the branches that provide same day availability.












Customers range from small and medium-sized businesses to large corporations, government entities and other institutions. They are primarily represented by purchasing managers or workers in facilities maintenance departments and service shops across a wide range of industries such as manufacturing, hospitality, transportation, government, retail, healthcare and education. Sales transactions during2011were made to approximately1.6 millioncustomers averaging105,000daily transactions. No single customer accounted for more than2%of total sales.

The business has a sales force of almost2,700professionals who help businesses and institutions select the right products to find immediate solutions to maintenance problems and to reduce operating expenses and improve cash flows.  The sales force increased over the prior year with the majority of the new sales representatives focused on acquiring additional business from existing medium-sized customers as well as acquiring new business across the United States.

Another area in which the United States business helps customers be more productive is through inventory management.  A comprehensive program was launched in 2006 called KeepStock® that includes on-site services and vendor-managed inventory.  During the past couple of years the program has expanded to over 14,000 customers and 30,000 unique customer installations.

Customers can also purchase products through grainger.com. More customers are migrating to online and electronic purchasing and Grainger continues to enhance its eCommerce platform.  With access to more than800,000products, grainger.com serves as a prominent channel for the United States business. Grainger.com provides real-time price and product availability and detailed product information, and offers advanced features such as product search and compare capabilities. For customers with sophisticated electronic purchasing platforms, Grainger utilizes technology that allows these systems to communicate directly with grainger.com. Customers can also purchase products through several other branded websites.

The majority of the products sold by the United States business are well recognized national branded products, including private label items bearing Grainger’s registered trademarks, such as DAYTON® motors, SPEEDAIRE® air compressors, AIR HANDLER® air filtration equipment, DEM-KOTE® spray paints, WESTWARD® tools, CONDOR® safety products and LUMAPRO® lighting products. Grainger has taken steps to protect these trademarks against infringement and believes that they will remain available for future use in its business.

The Grainger catalog, most recently issued inFebruary 2012, offers approximately410,000facilities maintenance and other products and is used by customers to assist in product selection. Approximately2.1 millioncopies of the catalog were produced. In addition, Grainger’s United States business issues targeted catalogs for its multiple branded products, as well as other marketing materials.

The United States business purchases products for sale from more than2,000key suppliers, most of which are manufacturers. Through a global sourcing operation, the business procures competitively priced, high-quality products produced outside the United States from approximately300suppliers. Grainger sells these items primarily under private label brands. Products obtained through the global sourcing operation include DAYTON® motors, WESTWARD® tools, LUMAPRO® lighting products and CONDOR® safety products, as well as products bearing other trademarks. No single supplier comprised more than5%of total purchases and no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply.

Canada

Acklands – Grainger is Canada’s leading broad-line distributor of industrial and safety supplies.  A combination of product breadth, local availability, speed of delivery, detailed product information and competitively priced products and services is provided by this business.In 2011,Acklands – Grainger acquired one business, Fercomat, Inc.  Fercomat is based in Quebec and has been a leading distributor of hardware, tools and fasteners since 1957.

The Canadian business serves customers through172branches andsixDCs across Canada. Acklands – Grainger distributes tools, fasteners, safety supplies, instruments, welding and shop equipment, and many other items.During 2011,approximately15,000sales transactions were completed daily. A comprehensive catalog, printed in both English and French, was most recently issued inFebruary 2012.  The catalog has more than110,000products and is used by customers to assist in product selection. In addition, customers can purchase products through acklandsgrainger.com, a fully bilingual website.

Other Businesses

Included in other businesses are the operations in Europe, Japan, Mexico, India, Puerto Rico, China, Colombia, Panama and Dominican Republic. The more significant businesses in this group are described below.










Fabory Group

In 2011, Grainger acquired the Fabory Group, a European distributor of fasteners, tools and industrial supplies.  The Fabory Group is headquartered in Tilburg, the Netherlands, and has more than 100 locations in 15 countries.  Customers have access to approximately 80,000 products through a catalog and through fabory.com.



Japan

Grainger operates in Japan through its53%interest in MonotaRO Co. MonotaRO provides small and mid-sized domestic businesses with products that help them operate and maintain their facilities. MonotaRO is a catalog and  web-based direct marketer with approximately80%of orders being conducted through monotaro.com.  MonotaRO has no branches and fulfills all orders from two DCs.



Mexico

Grainger’s operations in Mexico provide local businesses with maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products primarily from Mexico and the United States. Mexico distributes products through a network of branches and one DC where customers have access to approximately84,000products through a Spanish-language catalog and through grainger.com.mx.



China

Grainger operates in China from a DC in Shanghai and two small regional warehouses. In addition, there aresixsales offices in eastern China that allow sales representatives to work remotely and meet with customers. Customers have access to approximately59,000products through a Chinese-language catalog and through grainger.com.cn.



Colombia

Grainger owns an80%position in a joint venture in Colombia. Colombia provides businesses with facilities maintenance supplies and other products, with an emphasis on fastener products, through a network of branches and one DC. Customers have access to approximately30,000products through torhefe.com.

Seasonality

Grainger’s business in general is not seasonal, however, there are some products that typically sell more often during the winter or summer season. In any given month, unusual weather patterns, i.e., unusually hot or cold weather, could impact the sales volumes of these products, either positively or negatively.

Competition

Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses, retail enterprises and Internet-based businesses.

Grainger provides local product availability, a broad product line, sales representatives, competitive pricing, catalogs (which include product descriptions and, in certain cases, extensive technical and application data), and electronic and Internet commerce technology. Other services such as inventory management and energy efficiency solutions to assist customers in lowering their total facilities maintenance costs are also offered. Grainger believes that it can effectively compete with manufacturers on small orders, but manufacturers may have an advantage in filling large orders.

Grainger serves a number of diverse markets.  Grainger estimates the North American market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately$140 billion, of which Grainger’s share is approximately5%. There are several large competitors, although the majority of the market is served by small local and regional competitors.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, Grainger had approximately21,400employees, of whom approximately20,000were full-time and1,400were part-time or temporary. Grainger has never had a major work stoppage and considers employee relations to be good.

Website Access to Company Reports

Grainger makes available, through its website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after this material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This material may be accessed by visiting grainger.com/investor.














