Item 1: Business

The Company

W.W. Grainger, Inc., incorporated in the State of Illinois in 1928, is a broad-line distributor of maintenance, repair and operating (MRO) supplies and other related products and services used by businesses and institutions primarily in the United States and Canada, with presence also in Europe, Asia and Latin America. In this report, the words “Grainger” or “Company” mean W.W. Grainger, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

Grainger uses a combination of multichannel and single channel online business models to provide customers with a range of options for finding and purchasing products, utilizing sales representatives, contact centers, direct marketing materials, catalogs and eCommerce. Grainger serves more than2 millioncustomers worldwide through a network of highly integrated branches, distribution centers and websites.

Grainger's Canadian subsidiary, Acklands-Grainger, acquired WFS Enterprises, Inc. (WFS) in the third quarter of 2014. WFS is a distributor of tools and supplies to industrial markets in Southern Ontario and select U.S. locations. Results for the business are consolidated with Grainger from the acquisition date. In 2014, Grainger also announced the decision to close the business in Brazil and operations will cease during 2015. During 2014, Grainger continued to invest in the single channel online business model, which has experienced strong growth in recent years.

Grainger's centralized business support functions provide coordination and guidance in the areas of accounting and finance, business development, communications and investor relations, compensation and benefits, information systems, health and safety, global supply chain functions, human resources, risk management, internal audit, legal, real estate, security, tax and treasury. These services are provided in varying degrees to all business units.

Products are regularly added to and deleted from Grainger’s product lines on the basis of customer demand, market research, recommendations of suppliers, sales volumes and other factors.

Grainger’s two reportable segments are the United States and Canada and they are described further below.  Other businesses include Zoro, the single channel online business in the United States, and operations in Europe, Asia and Latin America. These businesses generate revenue through the distribution of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and products and provide related services. For segment and geographical information and consolidated net sales and operating earnings, see “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” andNote 16to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

United States

The United States business offers a broad selection of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products and services through local branches, sales representatives, catalogs and eCommerce. A combination of product breadth, local availability, speed of delivery, detailed product information and competitively priced products and services is provided by this business. Products offered include material handling equipment, safety and security supplies, lighting and electrical products, power and hand tools, pumps and plumbing supplies, cleaning and maintenance supplies, building and home inspection supplies, vehicle and fleet components and many other items primarily focused on the facilities maintenance market. Services offered primarily relate to inventory management solutions. In 2014, service fee revenue represented less than 1% of sales.

The majority of the products sold by the United States business are well-recognized national branded products. In addition, 22% of 2014 sales were private label items bearing Grainger’s registered trademarks, such as DAYTON® motors, power transmission, HVAC and material handling equipment, SPEEDAIRE® air compressors, AIR HANDLER® air filtration equipment, TOUGH GUY® cleaning products, WESTWARD® tools, CONDOR® safety products and LUMAPRO® lighting products. Grainger has taken steps to protect these trademarks against infringement and believes that they will remain available for future use in its business. The United States business purchases products for sale from more than2,500key suppliers, most of which are manufacturers. Through a global sourcing operation, the business procures competitively priced, high-quality products produced outside the United States from approximately400suppliers. Grainger sells these items primarily under the private label brands listed above. No single supplier comprised more than5%of total purchases and no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply.










Customers range from small and medium-sized businesses to large corporations, government entities and other institutions. They are primarily represented by purchasing managers or workers in facilities maintenance departments and service shops across a wide range of industries such as manufacturing, hospitality, transportation, government, retail, healthcare and education. Sales in2014were made to approximately1.2 millioncustomers averaging106,000daily transactions. Approximately 75% of sales are concentrated with large customers and no single customer accounted for more than3%of total sales.

The United States business operates in all 50 states through a network of 19 distribution centers (DCs), 377 branches and 51 contact centers.  DCs range in size from 45,000 square feet to 1.3 million square feet, the largest of which can stock up to 500,000 products.  Automated equipment and processes in the larger DCs allow them to handle the majority of the customer shipping for next-day product availability and replenish the branches that provide same-day availability. The DC network increasingly fulfills a larger portion of customer orders, especially as customers migrate to online and electronic purchasing. In 2014, Grainger announced a plan to build a new 1.3 million square-foot DC in New Jersey, scheduled to open in 2016.

The branches are located in close proximity to the majority of U.S. businesses and serve the immediate needs of customers in their local markets by allowing them to pick up items directly from the branches. The branch network has approximately3,800employees who primarily fulfill counter and will-call product purchases and provide customer service. An average branch is22,000square feet in size and has10employees. In the normal course of business, Grainger regularly reviews the effectiveness of its branch network and closed 21 branches in 2014, 11 of which were related to the recently acquired businesses.

Grainger's contact center network consists of approximately 1,900 employees who handle about 36,000 orders per day from customer orders via phone, e-mail and fax. In 2014, the contact center network was regionalized to leverage the scale of the organization and deliver exceptional customer service.

The business has a sales force of approximately 3,500 professionals who help businesses and institutions select the right products to find immediate solutions to maintenance problems and reduce operating expenses by utilizing Grainger as a consistent source of supply across multiple locations. In 2014, Grainger continued to expand its sales force to facilitate growth with targeted segments and provide more specialized support.

Another area in which the United States business helps customers be more productive is through inventory management services. KeepStock® inventory solutions is a comprehensive program that includes vendor-managed inventory, customer-managed inventory and on-site vending machines. Grainger's KeepStock program currently provides services to more than 18,000 customers and completed over 13,000 installations in 2014.

Customers can also purchase products through Grainger.com®. Customers continue to migrate to online and electronic purchasing.  eCommerce revenues were $2.8 billion in 2014, an increase of 13% versus 2013. Grainger.com provides access to approximately1.5 millionproducts and serves as a prominent channel for the United States business. Grainger.com provides real-time price and product availability and detailed product information, and offers advanced features such as product search and compare capabilities. For customers with sophisticated electronic purchasing platforms, Grainger utilizes technology that allows these systems to communicate directly with Grainger.com. Customers can also purchase products through other branded websites. In 2014, Grainger completed transitioning to a new web platform and made improvements to search capabilities on the website.

The Grainger catalog, most recently issued inFebruary 2015, offers approximately590,000facilities maintenance and other products, and is used by customers to assist in product selection.  The 2015 catalog includes over 32,000 new items and approximately1.5 millioncopies of the catalog were produced.

Grainger estimates the United States market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $126 billion, of which Grainger’s share is approximately 6%.










Canada

Acklands – Grainger is Canada’s leading broad-line distributor of industrial and safety supplies.  A combination of product breadth, local availability, speed of delivery, detailed product information and competitively priced products and services is provided by this business.

Acklands – Grainger distributes tools, fasteners, safety supplies, instruments, welding and shop equipment, and many other items. The Canadian business serves customers through181branches, sales and service representatives and6DCs across Canada.During 2014,approximately15,700sales transactions were completed daily. A comprehensive catalog, printed in both English and French, was most recently issued inFebruary 2015.  The catalog has more than153,000products and is used by customers to assist in product selection. In addition, customers can purchase products through Acklandsgrainger.com, a fully bilingual website. In early 2015, the Canadian business opened a 535,000 square-foot DC in the Toronto area.  Grainger estimates the Canadian market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $13 billion, of which Acklands – Grainger’s share is approximately 8%.

Other Businesses

Included in other businesses is Zoro and operations in Europe, Asia and Latin America. The more significant businesses in this group, those with revenues of more than $100 million in 2014, are described below.

Fabory

Fabory is a European distributor of fasteners, tools and industrial supplies.  Fabory is headquartered in Tilburg, the Netherlands, and has more than100locations in13countries.  Customers have access to more than100,000products through a catalog and through Fabory.com.  Grainger estimates the European market (in which Fabory has its primary operations) for facilities maintenance and related products, including fasteners, to be approximately $40 billion, of which Grainger’s share is approximately 1%.



Japan

Grainger operates in Japan through its51%interest in MonotaRO Co. MonotaRO provides small and mid-sized Japanese businesses with products that help them operate and maintain their facilities. MonotaRO is a catalog and web-based direct marketer with approximately86%of orders being conducted through Monotaro.com, through which customers have access to approximately 8 million products. MonotaRO has no branches or sales force and fulfills all orders from two DCs.  Grainger estimates the Japanese market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $43 billion, of which Grainger’s share is approximately 1%.



Mexico

Grainger’s operations in Mexico provide local businesses with maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products primarily from Mexico and the United States. The business in Mexico distributes products through a network of branches and two DCs where customers have access to approximately148,000products through a Spanish-language catalog and through Grainger.com.mx®. Grainger estimates the Mexican market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $11 billion, of which Grainger’s share is approximately 1%.



Zoro

Zoro is an online distributor of MRO products serving U.S. businesses and consumers through its website Zoro.com.  Zoro offers a broad selection of approximately 760,000 items at single, competitive prices. Zoro has no branches or sales force, and customer orders are fulfilled through the Grainger U.S. supply chain. In 2014, Zoro began serving customers in Canada through ZoroCanada.com.










Seasonality

Grainger’s business in general is not seasonal, however, there are some products that typically sell more often during the winter or summer season. In any given month, unusual weather patterns, i.e., unusually hot or cold weather, could impact the sales volumes of these products, either positively or negatively.

Competition

Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses, retail enterprises and Internet-based businesses. Grainger provides local product availability, a broad product line, sales representatives, competitive pricing, catalogs (which include product descriptions and, in certain cases, extensive technical and application data), and electronic and Internet commerce technology. Other services, such as inventory management, are also offered. Grainger believes that it can effectively compete with manufacturers on small orders, but manufacturers may have an advantage in filling large orders. There are several large competitors, although the majority of the market is served by small local and regional competitors.

Employees

As of December 31, 2014, Grainger had approximately23,600employees, of whom approximately22,300were full-time and1,300were part-time or temporary. Grainger has never had a major work stoppage and considers employee relations to be good.

Website Access to Company Reports

Grainger makes available, through its website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after this material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This material may be accessed by visiting www.grainger.com/investor.












