Item 1: Business

The Company

W.W. Grainger, Inc., incorporated in the State of Illinois in 1928, is a broad-line distributor of maintenance, repair and operating (MRO) supplies and other related products and services used by businesses and institutions primarily in the United States and Canada, with a presence in Europe, Asia and Latin America. In this report, the words “Grainger” or “Company” mean W.W. Grainger, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

Grainger uses a multichannel business model to provide customers with a range of options for finding and purchasing products, utilizing sales representatives, direct marketing materials, catalogs and eCommerce. Grainger serves more than2 millioncustomers worldwide through a network of highly integrated branches, distribution centers, websites and export services.

In 2013, Grainger acquired two businesses in the United States. E&R Industrial Sales, Inc., acquired in the third quarter, is a distributor of metalworking, production supplies and MRO materials to manufacturers and industrial customers. Safety Solutions, Inc., acquired in the fourth quarter, is a distributor of safety footwear, supplies and services with a strong focus on the manufacturing sector.

In 2013, Grainger divested four direct marketing brands at the end of the fourth quarter, which included Gempler's, Ben Meadows, AW Direct and McFeely's.

Grainger has centralized business support functions that provide coordination and guidance in the areas of accounting and finance, business development, communications and investor relations, compensation and benefits, information systems, health and safety, global supply chain functions, human resources, risk management, internal audit, legal, real estate, security, tax and treasury. These services are provided in varying degrees to all business units.

Items are regularly added to and deleted from Grainger’s product lines on the basis of customer demand, market research, recommendations of suppliers, sales volumes and other factors.

Grainger’s two reportable segments are the United States and Canada and they are described further below.  Other businesses include operations in Europe, Asia, Latin America and other U.S. operations.  These businesses generate revenue through the distribution of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and products and provide related services. For segment and geographical information and consolidated net sales and operating earnings, see “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” andNote 16to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

United States

The United States business offers a broad selection of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products and services through local branches, sales representatives, catalogs and eCommerce. A combination of product breadth, local availability, speed of delivery, detailed product information and competitively priced products and services is provided by this business. Products offered include material handling equipment, safety and security supplies, lighting and electrical products, power and hand tools, pumps and plumbing supplies, cleaning and maintenance supplies, building and home inspection supplies, vehicle and fleet components and many other items primarily focused on the facilities maintenance market. Services offered primarily include inventory management and energy efficiency solutions.

The United States business operates in all 50 states through a network of390branches and sales representatives. The branches are located in close proximity to the majority of U.S. businesses and serve the immediate needs of customers in their local markets by allowing them to pick up items directly from the branches. The branch network has approximately4,800employees who primarily fulfill counter and will-call product purchases and provide customer service. An average branch is22,000square feet in size, has12employees and handles about150transactions per day. In the normal course of business, Grainger continually reviews the effectiveness of its branch network. In 2013, Grainger added 21 branches to its portfolio through the recent acquisitions as noted above.

The logistics network in the United States is comprised of18distribution centers (DCs) of various sizes.  Automated equipment and processes in the larger DCs allow them to handle the majority of the customer shipping for next-day product availability and replenish the branches that provide same-day availability. In 2013, Grainger opened a 1 million square-foot and highly automated DC in the Chicago area.










Customers range from small and medium-sized businesses to large corporations, government entities and other institutions. They are primarily represented by purchasing managers or workers in facilities maintenance departments and service shops across a wide range of industries such as manufacturing, hospitality, transportation, government, retail, healthcare and education. Sales in2013were made to approximately1.4 millioncustomers averaging109,000daily transactions. No single customer accounted for more than3%of total sales.

The business has a sales force of almost3,100professionals who help businesses and institutions select the right products to find immediate solutions to maintenance problems and to reduce operating expenses and improve cash flows.  In 2013, Grainger continued to expand its sales force to facilitate growth with targeted segments and provide more specialized support.

Another area in which the United States business helps customers be more productive is through inventory management services.  A comprehensive program called KeepStock® is an offering that includes vendor managed inventory, customer managed inventory and on-site vending machines.  Grainger's KeepStock program currently provides services to more than 21,000 customers at approximately 55,000 unique customer installations.

Customers can also purchase products through Grainger.com®. Customers continue to migrate to online and electronic purchasing.  eCommerce revenues were $2.5 billion in 2013, an increase of 16% versus 2012. Grainger.com provides access to approximately1.2 millionproducts and serves as a prominent channel for the United States business. Grainger.com provides real-time price and product availability and detailed product information, and offers advanced features such as product search and compare capabilities. For customers with sophisticated electronic purchasing platforms, Grainger utilizes technology that allows these systems to communicate directly with Grainger.com. In 2013, Grainger transitioned Grainger.com to a new web platform, launched a Spanish language website and introduced new applications for mobile devices. Customers can also purchase products through other branded websites.

The majority of the products sold by the United States business are well recognized national branded products. In addition, 22% of 2013 sales were private label items bearing Grainger’s registered trademarks, such as DAYTON® motors, power transmission, HVAC and material handling, SPEEDAIRE® air compressors, AIR HANDLER® air filtration equipment, TOUGH GUY® cleaning products, WESTWARD® tools, CONDOR® safety products and LUMAPRO® lighting products. Grainger has taken steps to protect these trademarks against infringement and believes that they will remain available for future use in its business. The United States business purchases products for sale from more than2,700key suppliers, most of which are manufacturers. Through a global sourcing operation, the business procures competitively priced, high-quality products produced outside the United States from approximately400suppliers. Grainger sells these items primarily under the private label brands listed above. No single supplier comprised more than5%of total purchases and no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply.

The Grainger catalog, most recently issued inFebruary 2014, offers approximately590,000facilities maintenance and other products, an increase of 20,000 from the prior year, and is used by customers to assist in product selection. Approximately1.6 millioncopies of the catalog were produced. In addition, Grainger’s United States business issues targeted catalogs for its multiple branded products, as well as other marketing materials.

Grainger estimates the United States market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $122 billion, of which Grainger’s share is approximately 6%.

Canada

Acklands – Grainger is Canada’s leading broad-line distributor of industrial and safety supplies.  A combination of product breadth, local availability, speed of delivery, detailed product information and competitively priced products and services is provided by this business.

The Canadian business serves customers through171branches, sales and service representatives and6DCs across Canada. Acklands – Grainger distributes tools, fasteners, safety supplies, instruments, welding and shop equipment, and many other items.During 2013,approximately15,200sales transactions were completed daily. A comprehensive catalog, printed in both English and French, was most recently issued inFebruary 2014.  The catalog has more than139,000products and is used by customers to assist in product selection. In addition, customers can purchase products through Acklandsgrainger.com, a fully bilingual website. In 2013, Acklands – Grainger announced a large product expansion, adding 200,000 new products to its online offering and also began construction on a 500,000 square-foot distribution center in the Toronto area. Grainger estimates the Canadian market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $14 billion, of which Acklands – Grainger’s share is approximately 8%.










Other Businesses

Included in other businesses are the operations in Europe, Asia, Latin America and other U.S. operations. The more significant businesses in this group, those with anticipated revenues of more than $100 million in 2014, are described below.

Fabory

Fabory is a European distributor of fasteners, tools and industrial supplies.  Fabory is headquartered in Tilburg, the Netherlands, and has more than100locations in14countries.  Customers have access to more than100,000products through a catalog and through Fabory.com.  Grainger estimates the European market (in which Fabory has its primary operations) for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $39 billion, of which Grainger’s share is approximately 1%.



Japan

Grainger operates in Japan through its51%interest in MonotaRO Co. MonotaRO provides small and mid-sized domestic businesses with products that help them operate and maintain their facilities. MonotaRO is a catalog and web-based direct marketer with approximately84%of orders being conducted through Monotaro.com.  MonotaRO has no branches or sales force and fulfills all orders from two DCs, which have approximately 120,000 stocked products.  Grainger estimates the Japanese market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $45 billion, of which Grainger’s share is approximately 1%.



Mexico

Grainger’s operations in Mexico provide local businesses with maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products primarily from Mexico and the United States. The business in Mexico distributes products through a network of branches and two DCs where customers have access to approximately119,000products through a Spanish-language catalog and through Grainger.com.mx. Grainger estimates the Mexican market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $11 billion, of which Grainger’s share is approximately 1%.



Zoro Tools

Zoro Tools is an online distributor of MRO products serving U.S. businesses and consumers through its website Zorotools.com.  Zoro Tools offers a broad selection of approximately 400,000 items at single, competitive prices. Zoro Tools has no branches or sales force, and product is delivered through the Grainger U.S. supply chain.



Seasonality

Grainger’s business in general is not seasonal, however, there are some products that typically sell more often during the winter or summer season. In any given month, unusual weather patterns, i.e., unusually hot or cold weather, could impact the sales volumes of these products, either positively or negatively.

Competition

Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses, retail enterprises and Internet-based businesses. Grainger provides local product availability, a broad product line, sales representatives, competitive pricing, catalogs (which include product descriptions and, in certain cases, extensive technical and application data), and electronic and Internet commerce technology. Other services, such as inventory management and energy efficiency solutions to assist customers in lowering their total facilities maintenance costs, are also offered. Grainger believes that it can effectively compete with manufacturers on small orders, but manufacturers may have an advantage in filling large orders. There are several large competitors, although the majority of the market is served by small local and regional competitors.

Employees

As of December 31, 2013, Grainger had approximately23,700employees, of whom approximately22,500were full-time and1,200were part-time or temporary. Grainger has never had a major work stoppage and considers employee relations to be good.










Website Access to Company Reports

Grainger makes available, through its website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after this material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This material may be accessed by visiting www.grainger.com/investor.



