Item 1:  Business



The Company

W.W. Grainger, Inc., incorporated in the State of Illinois in 1928, is a broad-line distributor of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products and services used by businesses and institutions primarily in the United States and Canada, with an expanding presence in Asia and Latin America.  In this report, the words “Grainger” or “Company” mean W.W. Grainger, Inc. and its subsidiaries.



Grainger uses a multichannel business model to provide customers with a range of options for finding and purchasing products utilizing sales representatives, direct marketing materials and catalogs.  Grainger serves approximately 2.0 million customers worldwide through a network of highly integrated branches, distribution centers, multiple websites and export services.



During 2010, Grainger acquired one business in the United States, three in Canada and an 80% ownership of a joint venture in Colombia.  Their results are consolidated with Grainger from the respective acquisition dates.



Grainger’s two reportable segments are the United States and Canada.  The United States segment reflects the results of Grainger’s U.S. business.  The Canada segment reflects the results for Acklands – Grainger Inc., Grainger’s Canadian business.  Other businesses include the following:  MonotaRO Co., Ltd. (Japan), Grainger, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico), Grainger Industrial Supply India Private Limited (India), Grainger Caribe Inc. (Puerto Rico), Grainger China LLC (China), Grainger Colombia SAS (Colombia) and Grainger Panama S.A. (Panama).  These businesses generate revenue through the distribution of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and products and provide related services.  For segment and geographical information and consolidated net sales and operating earn
ings see“Item 7:  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Grainger has centralized business support functions that provide coordination and guidance in the areas of accounting and finance, business development, communications and investor relations, compensation and benefits, information systems, health and safety, global supply chain functions, human resources, risk management, internal audit, legal, real estate, security, tax and treasury. These services are provided in varying degrees to all business units.



Grainger does not engage in product research and development activities. Items are regularly added to and deleted from Grainger’s product lines on the basis of customer demand, market research, recommendations of suppliers, sales volumes and other factors.



United States

The United States business offers a broad selection of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products and services through local branches, catalogs and the Internet.  In 2010, one business was acquired, SafetyCertified, Inc. (SafetyCertified), further broadening the offering of the United States business.  SafetyCertified offers online programs and tools to assist organizations in their efforts to comply with various workplace safety requirements.



Grainger’s United States business offers a combination of product breadth, local availability, speed of delivery, detailed product information and competitively priced products and services. Products offered include material handling equipment, safety and security supplies, lighting and electrical products, power and hand tools, pumps and plumbing supplies, cleaning and maintenance supplies, forestry and agriculture equipment, building and home inspection supplies, vehicle and fleet components and many other items primarily focused on the facilities maintenance market. Services offered include inventory management and energy efficiency solutions.



The United States business operates more than 400 branches located in all 50 states. These branches are located in close proximity to the majority of U.S. businesses and serve the immediate needs of customers in their local markets by allowing them to pick up items directly from the branches.  Branches range in size from small branches to large master branches. The branch network has approximately 5,000 employees who primarily fulfill counter and will-call product needs and provide customer service. An average branch is 22,000 square feet in size, has 12 employees and handles about 160 transactions per day.  In the normal course of business, Grainger continually reviews the effectiveness of its branch network.  In 2010, two branches were opened and 23 branches were closed.



The logistics network is comprised of a network of 14 distribution centers (DCs) of various sizes. Automated equipment and processes in the larger DCs allow them to handle the majority of the customer shipping for next day availability and replenish more than 400 branches that provide same day availability.



The business has a sales force of over 2,000 professionals who help businesses and institutions select the right products to find immediate solutions to maintenance problems and to reduce operating expenses and improve cash flows.  Customers range from small and medium-sized businesses to large corporations, government entities and other institutions. They are primarily represented by purchasing managers or workers in facilities maintenance departments and service shops across a wide range of industries such as manufacturing, hospitality, transportation, government, retail, healthcare and education. Sales transactions during 2010 were made to approximately 1.7 million customers averaging 96,000 daily transactions. No single customer accounted for more than 5% of total sales.




The majority of the products sold by the United States business are well recognized national branded products, including private label items bearing Grainger’s registered trademarks, such as DAYTON® motors, SPEEDAIRE® air compressors, AIR HANDLER® air filtration equipment, DEM-KOTE® spray paints, WESTWARD® tools, CONDOR™ safety products and LUMAPRO® lighting products. Grainger has taken steps to protect these trademarks against infringement and believes that they will remain available for future use in its business.



The Grainger catalog, most recently issued in February 2011, offers approximately 350,000 facilities maintenance and other products and is used by customers, sales representatives and branch personnel to assist in customer product selection. Approximately 2.1 million copies of the catalog were produced. In addition, Grainger’s United States business issues targeted catalogs for its multiple branded products, as well as other marketing materials.



Customers can also purchase products through grainger.com. With access to more than 700,000 products, grainger.com serves as a prominent channel for the United States business.  Grainger.com provides real-time price and product availability and detailed product information, and offers advanced features such as product search and compare capabilities. For customers with sophisticated electronic purchasing platforms, Grainger utilizes technology that allows these systems to communicate directly with grainger.com.  Customers can also purchase products through several other branded websites.



The United States business purchases products for sale from more than 2,000 key suppliers, most of which are manufacturers. Through a global sourcing operation, the business procures competitively priced, high-quality products produced outside the United States from approximately 400 suppliers. Grainger sells these items primarily under private label brands. Products obtained through the global sourcing operation include DAYTON® motors, WESTWARD® tools, LUMAPRO® lighting products and CONDOR™ safety products, as well as products bearing other trademarks.  No single supplier comprised more than 5% of total purchases and no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply.



Canada

Acklands – Grainger is Canada’s leading broad-line distributor of industrial and safety supplies. In 2010, Acklands – Grainger acquired three businesses, Ranson Industrial and Safety Supplies Inc., Solus Securite Inc. and Wolseley Industrial Products Group (Nova Scotia and New Brunswick).



The Canadian business serves customers through more than 170 branches and six DCs across Canada. Acklands – Grainger distributes tools, fasteners, safety supplies, instruments, welding and shop equipment, and many other items. During 2010, approximately 14,000 sales transactions were completed daily. A comprehensive catalog, printed in both English and French, showcases the product line to facilitate the customer’s product selection.  The February 2011 catalog, with more than 106,000 products, is used by customers, sales account managers and branch personnel to assist in customer product selection. In addition, customers can purchase products through acklandsgrainger.com, a fully bilingual website.



Other Businesses

Included in the other businesses are the operations in Japan, Mexico, India, Puerto Rico, China, Colombia and Panama.  The more significant businesses in this group are described below.



Japan

Grainger operates in Japan through a 53% interest in MonotaRO Co., Ltd. (MonotaRO).  MonotaRO provides small and mid-sized domestic businesses with products that help them operate and maintain their facilities.  MonotaRO is a catalog and a web-based direct marketer with approximately 70 percent of orders being conducted through the company’s website, monotaro.com.



Mexico

Grainger’s operations in Mexico provide local businesses with maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products primarily from Mexico and the United States. Mexico distributes products through a network of branches and one DC where customers have access to approximately 75,000 products through a Spanish-language catalog and through grainger.com.mx.



China

Grainger operates in China from a DC in Shanghai and a small regional warehouse in southern China.  In addition, there are five sales offices in eastern China that allow sales representatives to work remotely and meet with customers. Customers have access to approximately 59,000 products through a Chinese-language catalog and through grainger.com.cn.




Colombia

In 2010, Grainger formed a joint venture with an affiliate of Torhefe S.A., THF International SAS (Colombia).  Grainger owns an 80% majority position in the joint venture.  Grainger’s operations in Colombia provide businesses with facilities maintenance supplies and other products, with an emphasis on fastener products.  Customers have access to approximately 15,000 products through torhefe.com.



Seasonality

Grainger’s business in general is not seasonal, however, there are some products that typically sell more often during the winter or summer season.  In any given month, unusual weather patterns, i.e., unusually hot or cold weather, could impact the sales volumes of these products, either positively or negatively.



Competition

Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses, retail enterprises and Internet-based businesses.



Grainger provides local product availability, a broad product line, sales representatives, competitive pricing, catalogs (which include product descriptions and, in certain cases, extensive technical and application data), and electronic and Internet commerce technology.  Other services such as inventory management and energy efficiency solutions to assist customers in lowering their total facilities maintenance costs are also offered. Grainger believes that it can effectively compete with manufacturers on small orders, but manufacturers may have an advantage in filling large orders.



Grainger serves a number of diverse markets. Based on available data, Grainger estimates the North American market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $130 billion, of which Grainger’s share is approximately 5 percent. There are several large competitors, although the majority of the market is served by small local and regional competitors.



Employees

As of December 31, 2010, Grainger had approximately 18,500 employees, of whom approximately 17,000 were full-time and 1,500 were part-time or temporary. Grainger has never had a major work stoppage and considers employee relations to be good.



Website Access to Company Reports

Grainger makes available, through its website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after this material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This material may be accessed by visiting grainger.com/investor.



