ITEM 1. Business.

We are a leading global provider of products, technologies, software, solutions and services to individual consumers, small- and
medium-sized businesses ("SMBs"), and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. Our offerings span the
following:

•personal computing and other access devices;•imaging and printing-related products and services;•enterprise information technology ("IT") infrastructure, including enterprise server and storage technology, networking
products and solutions, technology support and maintenance;•multi-vendor customer services, including infrastructure technology and business process outsourcing, application
development and support services, and consulting and integration services; and•IT management software, information management solutions and security intelligence/risk management solutions.









HP
was incorporated in 1947 under the laws of the state of California as the successor to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard. Effective in
May 1998, we changed our state of incorporation from California to Delaware.

HP Products and Services; Segment Information

We offer one of the IT industry's broadest portfolio of products and services that brings together infrastructure, software, and
services through innovation to enable our customers to create value and solve business problems. As consumers and enterprises shift the way technology is delivered, consumed, and paid for, they are
demanding a foundation that will support much greater agility, lower cost, facilitate quicker time-to-market, and provide a higher degree of accessibility by end-users to that technology. We design
our solutions to provide that foundation, particularly in the areas of security, cloud, mobility, and big data, by leveraging the breadth of our offerings and the strengths and capabilities of our
individual business units.

Our
operations are organized into seven business segments: Personal Systems; Printing; the Enterprise Group ("EG"); Enterprise Services ("ES"); Software; HP Financial Services ("HPFS");
and Corporate Investments. In each of the past three fiscal years, notebooks, desktops, printing supplies, industry standard servers and infrastructure technology outsourcing services each accounted
for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue.

The
Personal Systems segment and the Printing segment are structured beneath a broader Printing and Personal Systems Group ("PPS"). While PPS is not a reportable segment, HP sometimes
provides financial data aggregating the Personal Systems and Printing segments within it in order to provide a supplementary view of its business.

A
summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments and business units along with a description of our fiscal 2013 organizational realignments is found in
Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. A discussion of factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in "Risk
Factors" in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Printing and Personal Systems Group

The mission of PPS is to leverage the respective strengths of the Personal Systems business and the Printing business by creating a
unified business that is customer-focused and poised to capitalize on rapidly shifting industry trends. Each of the business segments within PPS is described in detail below.

Personal Systems

Personal Systems provides commercial personal computers ("PCs"), consumer PCs, workstations, thin clients, tablets, retail
point-of-sale ("POS") systems, calculators and other related accessories, HP and third-party software, and support and services for the commercial and consumer markets. We group commercial notebooks,
commercial desktops, commercial tablets and workstations into commercial clients and consumer notebooks, consumer desktops and consumer tablets into consumer clients when describing our performance in
these markets. Both commercial and consumer PCs and tablets are based predominately on the Windows operating system and use processors from Intel Corporation ("Intel") and Advanced Micro
Devices, Inc. ("AMD"). Personal Systems is also pursuing a multi-operating system, multi-architecture strategy and launched Android and Chrome operating system tablets and notebooks during
fiscal 2013.

Commercial PCs.Commercial PCs are optimized for commercial uses, including for enterprise and SMB customers, and for connectivity,
reliability and
manageability in networked environments. Commercial PCs include the HP ProBook and HP EliteBook lines of notebooks, the HP Pro and HP









Elite
lines of business desktops and all-in-ones, retail POS systems, HP Thin Clients and HP ElitePad Tablet PCs. Commercial PCs also include workstations, such as Z desktop workstations, Z
all-in-ones and Z mobile workstations, that are designed and optimized for high-performance and demanding application environments.

Consumer PCs.Consumer PCs include the HP Spectre, HP ENVY, HP Pavilion, HP Chromebooks and HP Split series of multi-media consumer
notebooks,
consumer tablets, hybrids (detachable tablets) and desktops, as well as the TouchSmart line of touch-enabled notebooks and all-in-one desktops. Consumer PCs also use the Compaq and Slate sub-brands
for certain product offerings.

Printing

Printing provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, media, software and services, as well as scanning devices.
Printing is also focused on imaging solutions in the commercial markets. These solutions range from managed print services to areas such as industrial applications, outdoor signage, and the graphic
arts business. We group LaserJet, large format and Indigo printers into commercial hardware and inkjet printers into consumer hardware when describing our performance in these markets.

Inkjet and Printing Solutions.Inkjet and Printing Solutions delivers our consumer and SMB inkjet solutions (hardware, supplies, media,
and
web-connected hardware and services). It includes both single-function and all-in-one inkjet printers. Ongoing initiatives and programs, such as Ink in the Office and Ink Advantage, and new
initiatives, such as Instant Ink, provide innovative printing solutions to consumers and SMBs. Our Ink in the Office initiative is focused on providing inkjet printing solutions to SMBs through our
Officejet Premium and Officejet Pro inkjet portfolio. Our Ink Advantage program aims to provide savings on the overall cost of printing in emerging markets. HP Instant Ink is an ink replacement
service that allows customers to pay a monthly fee to print a specified number of pages per month.

LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions.LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions delivers our commercial and LaserJet products, services and
solutions to the SMB
and enterprise segments. Those products, services and solutions include LaserJet printers and supplies (toner), multi-function devices, scanners, web-connected hardware, managed services, and
enterprise software solutions, such as Exstream Software and Web Jetadmin. Our managed services include managed service products, support and solutions delivered to SMB and enterprise customers
partnering with third-party software providers to offer workflow solutions.

Graphics Solutions.Graphics Solutions offers large format printing (Designjet and Scitex) and supplies, Indigo digital presses and
supplies, inkjet
high-speed production solutions and supplies, specialty printing systems and graphics services. Graphic Solutions targets print service providers, architects, engineers, designers, photofinishers and
industrial solution providers.

Software and Web Services.Software and Web Services delivers a suite of offerings, including photo-storage and printing offerings (such
as
Snapfish), document storage, entertainment services, web-connected printing, and PC back-up and related services.

Enterprise Group

EG provides a broad portfolio of enterprise technology infrastructure solutions for a variety of operating environments that address a
wide range of customer challenges, including the need to increase agility and accelerate innovation in order to drive revenue, manage risk and lower costs. Our enterprise technology infrastructure
portfolio of servers, storage, networking and technology services combined with HP's Cloud solutions allows customers to adopt a holistic approach to building a









technology
infrastructure that supports their current business and consumer demands and next generation applications and web services. HP's Converged Systems portfolio simplifies IT through quick
deployment, intuitive management and system-level support. Optimized for key workloads such as
virtualization, cloud and big data, these complete, integrated solutions enable organizations of all sizes to efficiently utilize IT staffing resources and deploy applications faster.

Industry Standard Servers.Industry Standard Servers offers entry-level through premium ProLiant servers, which run primarily Windows,
Linux and
virtualization platforms from software providers, such as Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") and VMware, Inc. ("VMware"), and open sourced software from other major vendors while leveraging
x86 processors from Intel and AMD. The business spans a range of server product lines, including microservers, towers, traditional rack, density-optimized rack and blades, as well as hyperscale
solutions for large, distributed computing companies who buy and deploy nodes at a massive scale. In fiscal 2013, we launched our HP Moonshot servers that operate on ARM-based and Intel Atom-based
processors and offer reduced cost, space, energy and complexity compared to some traditional servers.

Business Critical Systems.Business Critical Systems delivers our mission-critical systems with a portfolio of HP Integrity servers
based on the
Intel Itanium processor that run the HP-UX and OpenVMS operating systems, as well as HP Integrity NonStop solutions. Our Integrity servers feature scalable blades built on a blade infrastructure with
our unique Blade Link technology and the Superdome 2 server solution. Business Critical Systems also offers our mission critical x86 ProLiant servers for scalability of systems that have more than
four industry standard processors.

Storage.Our storage offerings include storage platforms for enterprise and SMB environments. Our flagship product is the HP 3PAR
StoreServ
Storage Platform, which is designed for virtualization, cloud and IT-as-a-service. Traditional Storage solutions include tape, storage networking and legacy external disk products such as EVA and XP.
Converged Storage solutions include 3PAR, StoreOnce, StoreVirtual and StoreAll products. These offerings enable customers to optimize their existing storage systems, build new virtualization solutions
and plan their transition to cloud computing.

Networking.Our switch, router and wireless LAN products deliver open, scalable, secure, agile and consistent solutions for data center,
 campus and
branch networks. Our networking solutions are based on our FlexNetwork architecture, which is designed to enable simplified server virtualization, unified communications and multi-media application
delivery for the enterprise. Software-defined networking provides an end-to-end solution to automate the network from data center to campus and branch.

Technology Services.Technology Services provides professional and support services and technology
consulting. Support services offerings span various customer support needs and include: HP Foundation Care, our portfolio of reactive hardware and software support services; HP Proactive Care, which
combines remote support technology for real-time monitoring with rapid access to our technical experts; HP Datacenter Care, a comprehensive and flexible end-to-end support for HP and multi-vendor
systems that enables customers to build, operate or consume IT in traditional, cloud or hybrid cloud environments; and Lifecycle Event services, which are event-based services offering our technology
expertise and consulting for each phase of the technology life cycle. Our technology services offerings are available in the form of service contracts, pre-packaged offerings (HP Care Pack services)
or on a customized basis. The technology consulting portfolio includes cloud, big data and mobility consulting services, and provides IT organizations with advice, design, implementation, migration
and optimization of our EG platforms: servers, storage, networking and converged infrastructure.









Enterprise Services

ES provides technology consulting, outsourcing and support services across infrastructure, applications and business process domains.
ES delivers to our clients by leveraging investments in consulting and support professionals, infrastructure technology, applications, standardized methodologies, and global supply and delivery. ES
also creates opportunities for us to sell additional hardware and software by offering solutions that encompass both products and services. ES is divided into two business units, Infrastructure
Technology Outsourcing and Application and Business Services.

Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing.Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing delivers comprehensive services that streamline and
optimize our
clients' technology infrastructure to efficiently enhance performance, reduce costs, mitigate risk and enable business change. These services encompass the management of data centers, IT security,
cloud computing, workplace technology, networks, unified communications and enterprise service management. We also offer a set of managed services that provide a cross-section of our broader
infrastructure services for smaller, discrete engagements.

Application and Business Services.Application and Business Services helps our clients develop, revitalize and manage their applications
and
information assets. This full application life cycle approach encompasses application development, testing, modernization, system integration, maintenance and management for both packaged and
custom-built applications and cloud offerings. The Application and
Business Services portfolio also includes intellectual property-based industry solutions, services and technologies to help clients better manage critical business processes, such as customer
relationship management, finance and administration, human resources, payroll and document processing.

Software

Software provides IT management, big data and security solutions for businesses and enterprises of all sizes. Our IT management
solutions help customers deliver applications and services that perform to defined standards and automate the underlying infrastructure, be it traditional, cloud or hybrid. Our big data solutions
include the HP HAVEn Big Data Platform, which, together with the Autonomy and Vertica products, is designed to help customers manage, govern and get faster answers from all of their structured and
unstructured information. Our security solutions provide customers with security at all levels of the enterprise—from the infrastructure through applications and information. Our Software
offerings are delivered in the form of traditional software licenses or software-as-a-service and are augmented by support and professional services in order to provide an end-to-end solution to
customers.

HP Financial Services

HPFS supports and enhances our global product, software and services solutions by providing a broad range of value-added asset
management and financing services. HPFS, through innovative financings, enables HP's worldwide customers to acquire complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services. HPFS offers
leasing, financing, utility programs, and asset management services for large enterprise customers. HPFS also provides an array of financial options to SMBs and educational and governmental entities.
HPFS offers innovative, customized and flexible solutions to balance unique customer cash flow, technology obsolescence and capacity needs.

Corporate Investments

Corporate Investments includes HP Labs, the webOS business and certain business incubation projects.









Sales, Marketing and Distribution

We manage our business and report our financial results based on the business segments described above. Our customers are organized by
consumer and commercial customer groups, and purchases of HP products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by HP or indirectly through a variety of partners,
including:

•retailers that sell our products to the public through their own physical or Internet stores;•resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted
customer groups;•distribution partners that supply our solutions to resellers;•original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products and services with their own products and services,
and sell the integrated solution;•independent software vendors that provide their clients with specialized software products and often assist us in selling
our products and services to clients purchasing their products;•systems integrators that provide expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions and often partner with us to
extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and•advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and
typically partner with us on client solutions that require our unique products and services.

The
mix of our business by channel or direct sales differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions require
us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts accordingly. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our coverage, in addition to efficiencies and productivity, gains in both our
direct and indirect businesses. So, while each of our business segments manages the execution of its own go-to-market and distribution strategy, our business segments also collaborate to ensure
strategic and process alignment where appropriate. For example, we typically assign an account manager, generally from EG or ES, to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise
customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For other customers and for consumers, PPS typically manages direct online sales as well as
channel relationships with retailers, while our business segments collaborate to manage relationships with commercial resellers targeting SMBs where appropriate.

Manufacturing and Materials

We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers ("OMs") around the world to manufacture HP-designed products. The use of
OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing processes. In
some circumstances, third-party OEMs manufacture products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. In addition to our use of OMs, we currently manufacture a limited number of finished products
from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors.

We
utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and
logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order permits configuration of units to a customer's particular hardware and
software customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building









products
to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing immediately prior to the sale or distribution of
products to our customers.

We
purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such sources are
readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies, certain customized parts and parts for products with short life cycles (although some of these
sources have operations in multiple locations in the event of a disruption). We are dependent upon Intel and AMD as suppliers of processors and Microsoft for various software products; however, we
believe that disruptions with these suppliers would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See "Risk
Factors—We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Like
other participants in the IT industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our requirements for
periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we may experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources.
Frequently, we are able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on our gross margin but does not generally disrupt production. We also aim
to acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. See "Risk
Factors—We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

International

Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis
for both consumer and enterprise customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, allows us to drive economies of scale, provides
revenue streams to offset geographic economic trends and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. In addition, we believe that future growth is dependent in part on our
ability to develop products and sales models that target developing countries. In this regard, we believe that our broad geographic presence gives us a solid base on which to build such future growth.

A
summary of our domestic and international net revenue and net property, plant and equipment is set forth in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8,
which is incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 64% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2013 came from outside the United States.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to HP's international operations, see "Risk Factors—Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or
other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition," in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk" in Item 7A and
Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference.

Research and Development

Innovation is a key element of our culture. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and
solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires, and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe









we
can make a unique contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences.

HP
Labs, together with the various research and development groups within our business segments, are responsible for our research and development efforts. HP Labs is part of our
Corporate Investments segment.

Expenditures
for research and development were $3.1 billion in fiscal 2013, $3.4 billion in fiscal 2012 and $3.3 billion in fiscal 2011. We anticipate that we will
continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our
competitive position.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see "Risk Factors—If we cannot successfully execute on our strategy and continue to develop,
manufacture and market products, services and solutions that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer," in Item 1A, which is incorporated
herein by reference.

Patents

Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or
where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At October 31, 2013, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 38,000 patents, which represented a slight
increase over the number of patents in our patent portfolio at the end of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011.

Patents
generally have a term of twenty years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our
patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action
to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to HP as a
whole or to any of HP's business segments.

In
addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses
under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "Risk Factors—Our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or
enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third-parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein
by reference.

Backlog

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects due to our diverse products and services portfolio,
including the large volume of products delivered from shelf or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to
an understanding of our overall business.

Seasonality

General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our
products and services experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and









services.
For example, European sales often are weaker in the summer months and consumer sales often are stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also
may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. See "Risk Factors—Our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less
predictable," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Competition

We encounter aggressive competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete primarily on the basis of technology,
performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support,
security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings.

The
markets for each of our business segments are characterized by vigorous competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly
growing firms. Most product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively
on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products under their
own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on
many of our products and services to stay competitive.

We
have a broad technology portfolio spanning personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing-related products and services, enterprise IT infrastructure products and
solutions, multi-vendor customer services and IT management software and solutions. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our business segments.

The
competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below:

Personal Systems.The markets in which Personal Systems operates are intensely competitive and are characterized by price competition
and inventory
depreciation. Contraction in the PC market and the ongoing shift in customers to tablets and other form factors has further intensified competition in the PC market. Our primary competitors are Lenovo
Group Limited, Dell Inc. ("Dell"), Acer Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Apple Inc., Toshiba Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. ("Samsung") (for
tablets). In particular regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white box" manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product
portfolio, our innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support
offerings and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales.

Printing.The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive. Printing's key customer segments each face
competitive
market pressures in pricing and the introduction of new products. Our primary competitors include Canon U.S.A., Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation, Seiko Epson
Corporation, Ricoh Company Ltd, Samsung and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer refill and remanufactured alternatives for HP original inkjet and toner
supplies, which are often available for lower prices but generally offer lower print quality and reliability. Other competitors also have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for HP's
laser and inkjet products, particularly outside of the United States where intellectual property protection is inadequate or ineffective. Printing is focused on growth through innovation and growing
long-term, high-value recurring business, accelerating the transition from analog to digital printing in graphics, commercial and production environments, driving web and mobile content solutions
through our installed base of web-connected ePrinters and growing cloud-based,









document-centric
commercial solutions and services. Our competitive advantages include our comprehensive solutions for the home, office and publishing environments, our innovation and research
and development capabilities, our brand, and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales.

Enterprise Group.EG operates in the highly competitive enterprise technology infrastructure market that is characterized by rapid and
ongoing
technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors include technology vendors such as International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), Dell, EMC Corporation ("EMC"), Cisco
Systems, Inc. ("Cisco"), VMware, Microsoft and Amazon.com Inc. In particular regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white-box"
manufacturers. Our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services
capabilities. Our competitive advantages are our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development know-how, coupled with our
global reach and partner ecosystem.

Enterprise Services.ES competes in the IT services, consulting and integration, infrastructure technology outsourcing, business
process outsourcing
and application service markets. Our primary competitors include IBM Global Services, Computer Sciences Corporation, systems integration firms such as Accenture Ltd. and offshore companies such
as Fujitsu Limited and India-based competitors Wipro Limited, Infosys Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. We also compete with other traditional hardware providers, such as Dell, which
are increasingly offering services to support their products, new players in emerging areas like Cloud, and smaller local players. Many of our competitors offer a wide range of global services, and
some of our competitors enjoy significant brand recognition. ES teams with many companies to offer services, and those arrangements allow us to extend our reach and augment our capabilities. Our
competitive advantages include our deep technology expertise, especially in complex multi-vendor environments, differentiated intellectual property ("IP"), our strong track record of collaboration
with clients and partners, and the combination of our expertise in infrastructure management with skilled global resources on platforms from SAP, Oracle Corporation ("Oracle") and Microsoft, among
others.

Software.The markets in which Software operates are fueled by rapidly changing customer requirements and technologies. We design and
develop
enterprise IT management software in competition with IBM, CA Technologies, Inc., VMware, BMC Software, Inc. and others. Our big data solutions, which include data analytics, information
governance and digital marketing offerings incorporating both structured and unstructured data, compete with products from companies like Adobe Systems Inc., IBM, EMC, Open Text Corporation,
Oracle and Symantec Corporation. We also deliver enterprise security/risk intelligence solutions that compete with products from EMC, IBM, Cisco and McAfee, Inc. As customers are becoming
increasingly comfortable with newer delivery mechanisms such as software-as-a-service, we are facing competition from smaller, less traditional competitors, particularly for customers with smaller IT
organizations. Our differentiation lies in the breadth and depth of our software and services portfolio and the scope of our market coverage.

HP Financial Services.In our financing business, our competitors are captive financing companies, mainly IBM Global Financing, as well
as banks and
other financial institutions. We believe our competitive advantage in this business over banks and other financial institutions is our ability to finance products, services and total solutions.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to these competitive factors, see "Risk Factors—Competitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects," in
Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.







Environment

Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including
laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial
costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws.

Many
of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws regulating the manufacture
and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. Some of our products also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements
applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical
and materials composition of our products, their safe use, and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating
to climate change. We also are subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for
specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). In the event our products become non-compliant
with these laws, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, including fines.

Our
operations and ultimately our products are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations and international treaties relating to
climate change. As these laws, regulations and treaties and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market
access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we
are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that HP technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with related laws,
regulations and treaties.

We
are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of
our business. We meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services.

A
liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when we consider it probable a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably
estimated. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws
applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows, or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for
environmental control facilities.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to these environmental factors, see "Risk Factors—Unforeseen environmental costs could adversely affect our business and results of
operations," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, for a discussion of our environmental contingencies see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
in Item 8, which is also incorporated herein by reference.









Executive Officers

The following are our current executive officers:

John M. Hinshaw; age 43; Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations

Mr. Hinshaw has served as Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations since November 2011. Previously,
Mr. Hinshaw served as Vice President and General Manager of Information Solutions at The Boeing Company, an aerospace company, from January 2011 to October 2011 and as Global
Chief Information Officer for Boeing from June 2007 to December 2010.

Abdo George Kadifa; age 54; Executive Vice President, HP Software

Mr. Kadifa has served as Executive Vice President, HP Software since May 2012. Previously, he served as a director of
Silver Lake, a private equity firm, from June 2007 to May 2012.

Tracy S. Keogh; age 52; Executive Vice President, Human Resources

Ms. Keogh has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources since April 2011. Previously, Ms. Keogh served
as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Hewitt Associates, a provider of human resources consulting services, from May 2007 until March 2011.

Catherine A. Lesjak; age 54; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Lesjak has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2007. Ms. Lesjak
served as interim Chief Executive Officer from August 2010 until November 2010. She also serves as a director of SunPower Corporation.

Todd R. Morgenfeld; age 41; Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Corporate Analytics, and Treasurer

Mr. Morgenfeld has served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Corporate Analytics, and Treasurer since
November 2013. Previously, Mr. Morgenfeld served as Senior Vice President, HP Mobility, supporting our strategy of providing integrated solutions for the rapidly changing information
technology landscape, from June 2013 to October 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Morgenfeld served in several roles at Silver Lake, a global technology investment firm, from 2004 until
May 2013, most recently serving as a director.

Michael G. Nefkens; age 44; Executive Vice President, Enterprise Services

Mr. Nefkens has served as Executive Vice President, Enterprise Services since December 2012. Previously, he served in
that role in an acting capacity since August 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Nefkens served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Enterprise Services in the EMEA region from
November 2009 to August 2012, after having served in client-facing roles for some of Enterprise Services' largest clients since joining the business in 2001.

Jeff T. Ricci; age 52; Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer

Mr. Ricci has served as interim Controller and Principal Accounting Officer since November 2013 and as Vice President of
Finance for our Technology and Operations organization since May 2012. Previously, Mr. Ricci served as Vice President of Finance for Global Accounts and HP Financial Services from
March 2011 to May 2012 and Vice President of Finance for
HP Software from March 2009 to March 2011. Prior to joining HP, Mr. Ricci served as Senior Vice President of Finance for BEA Systems, Inc., an enterprise software company,
from 2000 until June 2008.









John F. Schultz; age 49; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Mr. Schultz has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since April 2012. Previously, he served
as Deputy General Counsel for Litigation, Investigations and Global Functions from September 2008 to April 2012. From March 2005 to September 2008, Mr. Schultz was a
partner in the litigation practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, where, among other clients, he supported HP as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters.

William L. Veghte; age 46; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Group

Mr. Veghte has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Enterprise Group since August 2013.
Previously, he served as Chief Operating Officer from May 2012 to August 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Veghte served as Executive Vice President of HP Software from May 2010 to
May 2012. Prior to joining HP, Mr. Veghte served as Senior Vice President of the Windows business group at Microsoft Corporation, a software company, from February 2008 until
January 2010.

Dion J. Weisler; age 46; Executive Vice President, Printing and Personal Systems Group

Mr. Weisler has served as Executive Vice President of the Printing and Personal Systems Group since June 2013.
Previously, he served as Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Printing and Personal Systems, Asia Pacific and Japan from January 2012 to June 2013. Prior to
joining HP, he was Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Product and Mobile Internet Digital Home Groups at Lenovo Group Ltd., a technology company, from January 2008 to
December 2011.

Margaret C. Whitman; age 57; President and Chief Executive Officer

Ms. Whitman has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2011 and as a member of HP's Board of
Directors since January 2011. From March 2011 to September 2011, Ms. Whitman served as a part-time strategic advisor to Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a private
equity firm. Previously, Ms. Whitman served as President and Chief Executive Officer of eBay Inc., an online marketplace and payments company, from 1998 to March 2008. Prior to
joining eBay, Ms. Whitman held executive-level positions at Hasbro Inc., a toy company, FTD, Inc., a floral products company, The Stride Rite Corporation, a footwear company, The
Walt Disney Company, an entertainment company, and Bain & Company, a consulting company. Ms. Whitman also serves as a director of The Procter & Gamble Company and is a former
director of DreamWorks Animation SKG, Inc. and Zipcar, Inc.

Employees

We had approximately 317,500 employees worldwide as of October 31, 2013.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://www.hp.com/investor/home, as soon as
reasonably practicable after HP electronically files such reports with, or furnishes those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. HP's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors'
committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Standards of









Business
Conduct" also are available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from:

Hewlett-Packard
CompanyAttention: Investor Relations3000 Hanover StreetPalo Alto, CA 94304http://www.hp.com/investor/informationrequest

Additional Information

Microsoft® and Windows® are U.S.-registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Intel®,
Itanium® and Intel Itanium® are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries. AMD is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ARM® is
a registered trademark of ARM Limited. UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.







