ITEM 1. Business.

HP is a leading global provider of products, technologies, software, solutions and services to individual consumers, small- and
medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. Our offerings span:

•personal computing and other access devices;•multi-vendor customer services, including infrastructure technology and business process outsourcing, technology support
and maintenance, application development and support services and consulting and integration services;•imaging and printing-related products and services; and•enterprise information technology infrastructure, including enterprise storage and server technology, networking products
and solutions, IT management software, information management solutions and security intelligence/risk management solutions.

HP
was incorporated in 1947 under the laws of the State of California as the successor to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard. Effective in May
1998, we changed our state of incorporation from California to Delaware.









HP Products and Services; Segment Information

Our operations are organized into seven business segments: the Personal Systems Group ("PSG"), Services, the Imaging and Printing Group
("IPG"), Enterprise Servers, Storage and Networking ("ESSN"), HP Software, HP Financial Services ("HPFS") and Corporate Investments. In each of the past three fiscal years, notebooks, desktops and
printing supplies each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. In fiscal 2010 and 2011, infrastructure technology outsourcing services also accounted for more than 10% of our
consolidated net revenue. Industry standard servers accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue in fiscal 2011.

A
summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments and business units is found in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. A discussion of factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by
reference.

Personal Systems Group

PSG provides commercial personal computers ("PCs"), consumer PCs, workstations, calculators and other related accessories, software and
services for the commercial and consumer markets. We group commercial notebooks, commercial desktops and workstations into
commercial clients and consumer notebooks and consumer desktops into consumer clients when describing our performance in these markets. Like the broader PC market, PSG continues to experience a shift
toward mobile products such as notebooks. Both commercial and consumer PCs are based predominately on the Windows operating system and use Intel Corporation ("Intel") and Advanced Micro Devices
("AMD") processors.

Commercial PCs.Commercial PCs are optimized for commercial uses, including enterprise and SMB customers, and for connectivity and
manageability in
networked environments. Commercial PCs include the HP ProBook and the HP EliteBook lines of notebooks and the Compaq Pro, Compaq Elite, HP Pro and HP Elite lines of business desktops, as well as the
All in One TouchSmart and Omni PCs, HP Mini-Note PCs, retail POS systems, HP Thin Clients and HP Slate Tablet PCs.

Consumer PCs.Consumer PCs include the HP and Compaq series of multi-media consumer notebooks, desktops and mini notebooks, including
the TouchSmart
line of touch-enabled all-in-one notebooks and desktops.

Workstations.Workstations are individual computing products designed for users demanding enhanced performance, such as computer
animation,
engineering design and other programs requiring high-resolution graphics. PSG provides workstations that run on both Windows and Linux-based operating systems.

Services

Services provides consulting, outsourcing and technology services across infrastructure, applications and business process domains.
Services delivers to its clients by leveraging investments in consulting and support professionals, infrastructure technology, applications, standardized methodologies, and global supply and delivery.
Our services businesses also create opportunities for us to sell additional hardware and software by offering solutions that encompass both products and services. Services is divided into four main
business units: infrastructure technology outsourcing, technology services, applications services and business process outsourcing.

Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing.Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing delivers comprehensive services that streamline and
optimize our
clients' infrastructure to efficiently enhance performance, reduce costs, mitigate risk and enable business change. These services encompass the data center and the workplace (desktop); network and
communications; and security, compliance and











business
continuity. We also offer a set of managed services, providing a cross-section of our broader infrastructure services for smaller discrete engagements.

Technology Services.Technology Services provides support and consulting services, as well as warranty support across HP's product
lines. HP
specializes in keeping technology running with mission critical services, converged infrastructure services, networking services, data center transformation services and infrastructure services for
storage, server and unified communication environments. HP's technology services offerings are available in the form of service contracts, pre-packaged offerings (HP Care Pack services) or
on an individual basis.

Application Services.Applications Services helps clients revitalize and manage their applications assets through flexible,
project-based, consulting
services and longer-term outsourcing contracts. These full life cycle services encompass application development, testing, modernization, system integration, maintenance and management.
Applications Services also provides industry-focused technology consulting and systems integration solutions and services that use cloud computing, hybrid delivery, enterprise mobility, information
management and real-time analytics. Applications projects open doors to new infrastructure technology outsourcing and business process outsourcing opportunities and represent attractive cross-selling
opportunities to current HP clients.

Business Process Outsourcing.Business Process Outsourcing is powered by a platform of underlying infrastructure technology,
applications and
standardized methodologies and is supplemented by IT experience and in-depth, industry-specific knowledge. These services encompass both industry-specific and cross-industry solutions. Our
cross-industry solutions include a broad array of enterprise shared services, customer relationship management services, financial process management services and administrative services.

Imaging and Printing Group

IPG provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, media and scanning devices. IPG is also focused on imaging solutions
in the commercial markets. These solutions range from managed print services to capturing high-value pages in areas such as industrial applications, outdoor signage, and the graphic arts
business.

Inkjet and Web Solutions.Inkjet and Web Solutions delivers HP's consumer and SMB inkjet solutions (hardware, supplies, media,
web-connected hardware and services) and develops HP's retail publishing and web businesses. It includes single function and all-in-one inkjet printers targeted
toward consumers and SMBs, as well as retail publishing solutions, Snapfish and ePrintCenter.

LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions.LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions delivers products, services and solutions to the medium-sized
business and
enterprise segments, including LaserJet printers and supplies, multi-function devices, scanners, web-connected hardware and services and enterprise software solutions, such as Exstream
Software and Web Jetadmin.

Managed Enterprise Solutions.Managed Enterprise Solutions provides managed print services products and solutions delivered to
enterprise customers
partnering with third-party software providers to offer workflow solutions in the enterprise environment.

Graphics Solutions.Graphics Solutions provides large format printing (Designjet and Scitex), large format supplies, WebPress supplies,
Indigo
printing, specialty printing systems and inkjet high-speed production solutions. Graphic Solutions targets print service providers, architects, engineers, designers and industrial solution
providers.

Printer Supplies.Our printer supplies offerings include LaserJet toner and inkjet printer cartridges, graphic solutions ink products
and other
printing-related media.









Enterprise Servers, Storage and Networking

ESSN provides server, storage and networking products in a number of categories. Our Converged Infrastructure portfolio of servers,
storage and networking combined with HP Software's Cloud Service Automation software suite creates HP's CloudSystem. This integrated solution enables enterprise and service provider clients to deliver
infrastructure, platform and software as a service in a private, public or hybrid cloud environment. By providing a broad portfolio of server, storage and networking solutions, ESSN aims to optimize
the combined product solutions required by different customers and provide solutions for a wide range of operating environments, spanning both the enterprise and the SMB markets.

Industry Standard Servers.Industry Standard Servers offers primarily entry-level and mid-range ProLiant servers, which run primarily
Windows, Linux and Novell operating systems and leverage Intel and AMD processors. The business spans a range of product lines that include pedestal-tower servers, density-optimized rack servers and
HP's BladeSystem family of server blades.

Business Critical Systems.Business Critical Systems delivers mission-critical Converged Infrastructure with a portfolio of HP Integrity
servers
based on the Intel Itanium processor that run the HP-UX and OpenVMS operating systems, as well as HP Integrity NonStop solutions. Our Integrity servers feature scalable blades built on a
blade infrastructure with HP's unique Blade Link technology and the Superdome 2 server solution. Business Critical Systems also offers HP's scale-up x86 ProLiant servers for
scalability of systems with more than four industry standard processors. In addition, HP continues to support the HP9000 servers and HP AlphaServers by offering customers the opportunity to upgrade
these legacy systems to current HP Integrity systems.

Storage.Our storage offerings include storage platforms for high-end, mid-range and small business environments. Our
flagship product is the HP 3PAR Utility Storage Platform, which is designed for virtualization, cloud and IT-as-a-service. The Storage business has a broad
range of
products including storage area networks, network attached storage, storage management software and virtualization technologies, StoreOnce data deduplication solutions, tape drives and tape libraries.
These offerings enable customers to optimize their existing storage systems, build new virtualization solutions and plan their transition to cloud computing.

Networking.Our switch, router, wireless LAN and TippingPoint network security products deliver open, scalable, secure, agile and
consistent
solutions for the data center, campus and branch networks. Our networking solutions are based on HP's FlexNetwork architecture, which is designed to enable simplified server virtualization, unified
communications and multi-media application delivery for the enterprise.

HP Software

HP Software provides enterprise IT management software, information management solutions and security intelligence/risk management
solutions. Solutions are delivered in the form of traditional software licenses or as software-as-a-service. Augmented by support and professional services, HP Software solutions allow large IT
organizations to manage infrastructure, operations, application life cycles, application quality and security, IT services, business processes, and structured and unstructured data. In addition, these
solutions help businesses proactively safeguard digital assets, comply with corporate and regulatory policies, and control internal and external security risks.

HP Financial Services

HPFS supports and enhances HP's global product and service solutions, providing a broad range of value-added financial life cycle
management services. HPFS enables our worldwide customers to acquire complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services. The group offers leasing,











financing,
utility programs and asset recovery services, as well as financial asset management services for large global and enterprise customers. HPFS also provides an array of specialized financial
services to SMBs and educational and governmental entities. HPFS offers innovative, customized and flexible alternatives to balance unique customer cash flow, technology obsolescence and capacity
needs.

Corporate Investments

Corporate Investments includes business intelligence solutions, HP Labs, webOS software and certain business incubation projects.
Business intelligence solutions enable businesses to standardize on consistent data management schemes, connect and share data across the enterprise and apply analytics. This segment also derives
revenue from licensing specific HP technology to third parties. In addition, revenue from the sale of webOS devices was reported as part of this segment prior to the wind down of the webOS device
business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, which negatively impacted segment net revenue, gross margin and loss from operations as a result of contra revenue associated with sales incentive
programs and expenses related to supplier-related obligations and inventory write downs.

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

We manage our business and report our financial results based on the principal business segments described above. Our customers are
organized by consumer and commercial customer groups, and distribution is organized by direct and channel. Within the channel, we have various types of partners that we utilize for various customer
groups. The partners include:

•retailers that sell our products to the public through their own physical or Internet stores;•resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted
customer groups;•distribution partners that supply our solutions to smaller resellers with which we do not have direct relationships;•independent distributors that sell our products into geographies or customer segments in which we have little or no
presence;•original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products with their own hardware or software and sell the
integrated products;•independent software vendors ("ISVs") that provide their clients with specialized software products, and often assist us
in selling our products and services to clients purchasing their products;•systems integrators that provide various levels and kinds of expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions
and often partner with our services business to extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and•advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and
that typically partner with our services business on client solutions that require our unique products and services.

The
mix of HP's business by channel or direct sales differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions
necessitate sales, marketing and distribution to be tailored accordingly. HP is focused on driving the depth and breadth of its coverage in addition to efficiencies and productivity gains in both the
direct and indirect business.

HP's
Enterprise Sales and Marketing organization ("Enterprise Sales") manages most of our enterprise and public sector customer relationships and also has primary responsibility for
simplifying sales processes across our segments to improve speed and effectiveness of customer delivery. In this











capacity,
Enterprise Sales also works closely with HP's enterprise businesses (Services, ESSN and HP Software), which manage specialty resources focused on their specific products, including UNIX,
servers, storage, networking, software and support offerings. Enterprise Sales manages our direct distribution activities for commercial products and go-to-market activities
with systems integrators and ISVs. Enterprise Sales also is responsible for driving HP's horizontal and vertical solutions with both HP's enterprise services business and the partners listed above. In
addition, Enterprise Sales drives HP's vertical sales and marketing approach in the communication, media and entertainment, financial services, manufacturing and distribution and public sector
industries.

PSG
manages SMB customer relationships and commercial reseller channels relationships, due largely to the significant volume of commercial PCs that HP sells through these channels. PSG
also leads the Volume Direct organization, which is charged with the processing of direct sales for volume products. In addition, PSG manages direct online sales through the Consumer Exchange and the
Small Business Exchange.

IPG
manages HP's overall consumer-related sales and marketing relationships. IPG also manages consumer channel relationships with third-party retail locations for imaging and printing
products, as well as other consumer products, including consumer PCs, which provides for a bundled sale opportunity between PCs and IPG products.

Manufacturing and Materials

We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers ("OMs") around the world to manufacture HP-designed products.
The use of OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain
and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs manufacture products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. In addition to our use of OMs, we currently manufacture
a limited number of finished products from components and sub-assemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors.

We
utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and
logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Configuring products to order permits configuration of units to the particular hardware and software customization
requirements of customers. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking
delivery of the inventory and manufacturing immediately prior to the sale or distribution of products to our customers.

We
purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources
are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies and parts for products with short life cycles (although some of these sources have operations in
multiple locations in the event of a disruption). We are dependent upon Intel as a supplier of processors and Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") for various software products. However, we believe
that disruptions with these suppliers
would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. For processors, we also have a relationship with AMD, and
we have continued to see solid acceptance of AMD processors in the market.

Like
other participants in the high technology industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our
requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we experience significant price volatility and supply constraints for certain components that are not available from
multiple sources. Frequently, we are able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on gross margin but does not disrupt production. We also
acquire











component
inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. See "Risk
Factors—We depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by
reference.

International

Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis
for both consumer and enterprise customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, allows us to drive economies of scale, provides
revenue streams to offset geographic economic trends and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. In addition, we believe that future growth is dependent in part on our
ability to develop products and sales models that target developing countries. In this regard, we believe that our broad geographic presence gives us a solid base upon which to build such future
growth.

A
summary of our domestic and international net revenue and net property, plant and equipment is set forth in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8,
which is incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 65% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2011 came from outside the United States. The substantial majority of our net revenue originating
outside the United States was from customers other than foreign governments.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to HP's foreign operations, see "Risk Factors—Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other
factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition," in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk" in Item 7A and Note 10
to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference.

Research and Development

We remain committed to innovation as a key element of HP's culture. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing
products, services and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can
make a unique contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences.

HP
Labs, together with the various research and development groups within the five principal business segments, are responsible for our research and development efforts. HP Labs is part
of our Corporate Investments segment.

Expenditures
for research and development were $3.3 billion in fiscal 2011, $3.0 billion in fiscal 2010 and $2.8 billion in fiscal 2009. We anticipate that we will
continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to provide a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our
competitive position.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see "Risk Factors—If we cannot successfully execute on our strategy and continue to develop,
manufacture and market products, services and solutions that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer," in Item 1A, which is incorporated
herein by reference.

Patents

Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements likely to be incorporated into our products
and services or where proprietary rights will improve our











competitive
position. At October 31, 2011, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 36,000 patents, which represents a slight decrease over the number of patents in our patent portfolio at
the end of fiscal 2010 but an increase over the number of patents in our patent portfolio at the end of fiscal 2009.

Patents
generally have a term of twenty years from the time they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms on the individual patents vary. We
believe that our patents and applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties, and
maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to us as a whole or any of our principal business segments.

In
addition to developing our patents, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses under
patents owned by us when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "Risk Factors—Our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or
enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein
by reference.

Backlog

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects due to the diversity of our products and services
portfolio, including the large volume of products delivered from shelf or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not
material to an understanding of our overall business.

Seasonality

General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our
products experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales often are weaker
in the summer months and consumer sales often are stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of
seasonal trends. See "Risk Factors—Our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable," in Item 1A, which is
incorporated herein by reference.

Competition

We encounter aggressive competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete primarily on the basis of technology,
performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support,
and security.

The
markets for each of our business segments are characterized by vigorous competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and
rapidly growing firms. Product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete
effectively on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their
products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will continue to be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have
to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive.









On
a revenue basis we are the largest company offering our range of general purpose computers and personal information, imaging and printing products for industrial, scientific, business
and consumer
applications, and IT services. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our principal business segments.

The
competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below:

Personal Systems Group.The areas in which PSG operates are intensely competitive and are characterized by price competition and
inventory
depreciation. Our primary competitors for the branded personal computers are Dell, Acer Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Apple Inc., Lenovo Group Limited and Toshiba Corporation. In
particular regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white box" manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our
innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support offerings
and the availability of our broad-based distribution of products from retail and commercial channels to direct sales.

Services.

Imaging and Printing Group.The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive, especially with respect to
pricing and
the introduction of new products and features across IPG's consumer, small- to medium-sized business, graphics and enterprise customer segments. Key competitors include Canon U.S.A., Inc.,
Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation, Seiko Epson Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer
refill and remanufactured alternatives for HP original inkjet and toner supplies which, although generally offering lower print quality and reliability, are typically offered at lower prices and
put pressure on our supplies sales and margins. Other companies also have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for HP's laser and inkjet products, particularly outside of the United States
where intellectual property protection is inadequate or ineffective. In recent years, we and our competitors have regularly lowered prices on printer hardware to reach new customers and in response to
the competitive environment. Important opportunities for future growth include accelerating high-usage unit share, pursuing long-term high-value recurring
businesses, capitalizing on the analog to digital transition in graphics, web and mobile content solutions, and continuing to develop cloud-based, document-centric commercial solutions and services.

Enterprise Servers, Storage and Networking.The areas in which ESSN operates are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid
and ongoing
technological innovation and price competition.











Our
competitors range from broad solution providers such as International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") to more focused competitors such as EMC Corporation and NetApp, Inc. in storage
and Dell, Inc. in industry standard servers. We believe that our important competitive advantages in this segment include the six technology components of our converged infrastructure
initiatives: IT systems, power and cooling, security, management, virtualization and automation. We believe that our competitive advantages also include our global reach and our significant
intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, which will contribute to further enhancements of our product and service offerings and our ability to cross-sell
our portfolio and leverage scale advantages in everything from brand to procurement leverage.

HP Software.The areas in which HP Software operates are fueled by rapidly changing customer requirements and technologies. We market
enterprise IT
management software in competition with IBM, CA, Inc., BMC Software, Inc. and others. Our information management solutions compete with products from companies like IBM, EMC, and
Symantec Corporation. We also deliver enterprise security/risk intelligence solutions that compete with products from Symantec, IBM, Cisco, and McAfee. As new delivery mechanisms such as
software-as-a-service come on the scene, we are also confronting less traditional competitors. Our differentiation lies in the breadth and depth of our software and
services portfolio and the scope of our market coverage.

HP Financial Services.In our financing business, our competitors are captive financing companies, mainly IBM Global Financing, as well
as banks and
financial institutions. We believe our competitive advantage in this business over banks and financial institutions is our ability to finance products, services and total solutions.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to these competitive factors, see "Risk Factors—Competitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects," in
Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Environment

Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including
laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial
costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws.

Many
of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws regulating the manufacture
and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. Some of our products also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements
applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical
and materials composition of our products, their safe use, and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. We also are subject to legislation in an increasing number of
jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered
products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). In the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, they could be restricted from entering
certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, including fines.

Our
operations and ultimately our products are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations and international treaties relating to
climate change. As these laws, regulations and treaties and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented











throughout
the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to
finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that HP technology can be
used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with these related laws, regulations and treaties.

We
are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of
our business. We meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services.

The
liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when HP considers it probable and can reasonably estimate the costs. Environmental costs and accruals
are presently not material to our operations or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a
material adverse effect on HP's operations or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.

Executive Officers:

R. Todd Bradley; age 53; Executive Vice President, Personal Systems Group

Mr. Bradley has served as Executive Vice President of HP's Personal Systems Group since June 2005.

David A. Donatelli; age 46; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Servers, Storage, Networking and Technology Services

Mr. Donatelli has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of HP's Enterprise Servers, Storage and Networking
segment since May 2009 and of HP's Technology Services business unit since June 2011. Previously, Mr. Donatelli served as President of the storage division of EMC Corporation, an information
technology company, from September 2007 to April 2009. Prior to that, Mr. Donatelli served as Executive Vice President of Storage Product Operations at EMC from 2006 to September 2007.

John M. Hinshaw; age 41; Executive Vice President, Global Technology and Business Processes

Mr. Hinshaw has served as Executive Vice President, Global Technology and Business Processes since November 2011. Previously,
Mr. Hinshaw served as Vice President and General Manager of Information Solutions at The Boeing Company, an aerospace company, from January 2011 to October 2011 and as Global Chief Information
Officer for Boeing from June 2007 to December 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Hinshaw spent 14 years at Verizon Wireless, a telecommunications company, serving most recently as Senior Vice
President and Chief Information Officer from 2005 to June 2007.

Michael J. Holston; age 49; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Mr. Holston has served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel since February 2007 and as Secretary since March 2007.
Prior to that, he was a partner in the litigation practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, where, among other clients, he supported HP as external counsel on a variety of litigation and
regulatory matters for more than ten years.









Martin J. Homlish; age 59; Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer

Mr. Homlish has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since May 2011. Previously, he served as
Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at SAP AG, a software company, from 2000 until April 2011.

Vyomesh I. Joshi; age 57; Executive Vice President, Imaging and Printing Group

Mr. Joshi has served as Executive Vice President of HP's Imaging and Printing Group since 2002. Mr. Joshi also is a
director of Yahoo! Inc.

Tracy S. Keogh; age 50; Executive Vice President, Human Resources

Ms. Keogh has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources since April 2011. Previously, Ms. Keogh served as
Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Hewitt Associates, a provider of human resources consulting services, from May 2007 until March 2011. Ms. Keogh served as the Chief Human Resources
Officer for Bloomberg LP, a financial information provider, during 2006.

Catherine A. Lesjak; age 52; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Lesjak has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2007. Ms. Lesjak served as
HP's interim Chief Executive Officer from August 2010 until November 2010. Previously, she served as Senior Vice President from 2003 until December 2006 and as Treasurer from 2003 until March 2007.

Michael R. Lynch; age 46; Executive Vice President, Information Management

Mr. Lynch has served as Executive Vice President, Information Management since November 2011. Since 1996, Mr. Lynch has
served as Chief Executive Officer of Autonomy Corporation plc, an information management company that HP acquired in 2011.

John N. McMullen; age 53; Senior Vice President and Treasurer

Mr. McMullen has served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer since March 2007. Previously, he served as Vice President of
Finance for HP's Imaging and Printing Group from May 2002 until 2007.

James T. Murrin; age 51; Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer

Mr. Murrin has served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer since March 2007. Previously, he
served as Vice President of Finance for the former Technology Solutions Group since 2004.

William L. Veghte; age 44; Executive Vice President, HP Software

Mr. Veghte has served as Executive Vice President of HP Software since May 2010. Previously, Mr. Veghte served as Senior
Vice President of the Windows business group at Microsoft Corporation, a software company, from February 2008 until January 2010 after having served in various other positions at Microsoft since
joining the company in 1990, including Vice President, North America from August 2004 to February 2008.

Giovanni G. Visentin; age 49; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Services

Mr. Visentin has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of HP's enterprise services business since August 2011.
Previously, Mr. Visentin served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Americas Region of HP's enterprise services business from January 2011 to August 2011. Before joining HP,
Mr. Visentin served as General Manager of Integrated Technology











Services
for North America for IBM, a global technology firm, from August 2007 to January 2011 after having served in various other positions at IBM since joining the company in 1985.

Margaret C. Whitman; age 55; President and Chief Executive Officer

Ms. Whitman has served as HP's President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2011. She has also served as a member of
the Board of Directors of HP since January 2011. From March 2011 to September 2011, Ms. Whitman served as a part-time strategic advisor to Kleiner, Perkins, Caulfield &
Byers, a private equity firm. Previously, Ms. Whitman served as President and Chief Executive Officer of eBay Inc., an online marketplace and payments company, from 1998 to March 2008.
Prior to joining eBay, Ms. Whitman held executive-level positions at Hasbro Inc., a toy company, FTD, Inc., a floral products company, The Stride Rite Corporation, a footwear
company, The Walt Disney Company, an entertainment company, and Bain & Company, a consulting company. Ms. Whitman also serves as a director of The Procter & Gamble Company and
Zipcar, Inc.

Jan Zadak; age 47; Executive Vice President, Global Sales and Enterprise Marketing

Mr. Zadak has served as Executive Vice President of Global Sales and Enterprise Marketing since April 2011. Previously,
Mr. Zadak served as Senior Vice President and Managing Director of HP Europe, the Middle East and Africa from April 2010 to April 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Zadak held various other
positions with HP since joining the company in 2002, including Senior Vice President of Sales for the former HP Enterprise Business in EMEA from June 2007 to April 2010 and Vice President and Managing
Director of Central and Eastern Europe for the former HP Enterprise Business from August 2005 to April 2007.

Employees

We had approximately 349,600 employees worldwide as of October 31, 2011.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at
http://www.hp.com/investor/home, as soon as reasonably practicable after HP electronically files such reports with, or furnishes those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. HP's
Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee) and code
of ethics entitled "Standards of Business Conduct" also are available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from:

Hewlett-Packard
CompanyAttention: Investor Relations3000 Hanover StreetPalo Alto, CA 94304(866) GET-HPQ1 or (866) 438-4771http://www.hp.com/investor/informationrequest

Additional Information

Microsoft®, Windows® and Windows Mobile® are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the
United States and/or other jurisdictions. Intel®, Itanium® and Intel Itanium® are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and/or other jurisdictions.
UNIX is a registered trademark of The Open Group.









