ITEM 1. Business.

Business Overview

We are a leading global provider of products, technologies, software, solutions and services to individual consumers, small- and
medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors.

HP
was incorporated in 1947 under the laws of the state of California as the successor to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard. Effective in May 1998, we
changed our state of incorporation from California to Delaware.

HP Separation Transaction

On November 1, 2015 (the "Distribution Date"), Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise
Company ("Hewlett Packard Enterprise"), Hewlett-Packard Company's former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the "Separation"). In connection with the
Separation, Hewlett-Packard Company changed its name to HP Inc. Accordingly, references to the "company" in this report refer to Hewlett-Packard Company with respect to events occurring on or
prior to October 31, 2015, and to HP Inc. with respect to events occurring after October 31, 2015.

On
November 1, 2015, each of our stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 21, 2015 (the "Record Date") received one share of Hewlett Packard Enterprise
common stock for every one share of our common stock held as of the Record Date.

Hewlett
Packard Enterprise is now an independent public company trading on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "HPE". After the Separation, we do not beneficially own
any shares of Hewlett Packard Enterprise common stock and beginning November 1, 2015, we no longer consolidate Hewlett Packard Enterprise within our financial results or reflect the financial
results of Hewlett Packard Enterprise within our continuing results of operations.

The
historical results of operations and the financial position of Hewlett Packard Enterprise are included in the consolidated financial statements of HP Inc. for each of the
fiscal years included in this report and will be reported as discontinued operations beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2016.

HP Products and Services; Segment Information

Our offerings span the following:

•personal computing and other access devices;•imaging- and printing-related products and services;•enterprise information technology ("IT") infrastructure, including enterprise server and storage technology, networking products and
solutions, technology support and maintenance;•multi-vendor customer services, including technology consulting, outsourcing and support services across infrastructure, applications
and business process domains; and•software products and solution, including application testing and delivery software, big data analytics, information governance and IT
Operations Management.

We
offer one of the IT industry's broadest portfolios of products and services that bring together infrastructure, software, and services through innovation to enable our customers to
create value and solve business problems. As consumers and enterprises shift the way technology is created, delivered,









consumed
and paid for, they are demanding a foundation that will support much greater agility, lower cost, facilitate quicker time-to-market, and provide a higher degree of accessibility by end-users
to that technology. We design our solutions to provide that foundation, particularly in the areas of security, cloud, mobility and big data, by leveraging the breadth of our offerings and the
strengths and capabilities of our individual business units.

Our
operations are organized into seven business segments: Personal Systems; Printing; the Enterprise Group ("EG"); Enterprise Services ("ES"); Software; HP Financial Services ("HPFS");
and Corporate Investments. As a result of the Separation, effective November 1, 2015 EG, ES, Software, HPFS and certain parts of Corporate Investments are no longer reported in the continuing
results of HP Inc. Personal Systems, Printing and the remaining parts of Corporate Investments segments will be HP Inc.'s reportable segments.

In
each of the past three fiscal years, notebook personal computers ("PCs"), printing supplies, infrastructure technology outsourcing services, desktop PCs and industry standard servers
("ISS") each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue.

The
Personal Systems segment and the Printing segment are structured beneath a broader Printing and Personal Systems Group ("PPS"). While PPS is not a reportable segment, we may provide
financial data aggregating the Personal Systems and Printing segments to provide a supplementary view of its business.

A
summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments along with a description of our fiscal 2015 organizational realignments can be found in Note 2
to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. A discussion of factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in "Risk Factors" in
Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Printing and Personal Systems Group

The mission of PPS is to leverage the respective strengths of the Personal Systems segment and the Printing segment by creating a
unified business that is customer-focused and poised to capitalize on rapidly shifting industry trends. Each of the business segments within PPS is described in detail below.

Personal Systems

Personal Systems provides commercial PCs, consumer PCs, workstations, thin client PCs, tablets, retail point-of-sale ("POS") systems,
calculators and other related accessories, software, support and services for the commercial and consumer markets. We group commercial notebooks, commercial desktops, commercial tablets, workstations
and thin clients into commercial clients and consumer notebooks and consumer desktops into consumer clients when describing performance in these markets. Both commercial and consumer PCs and tablets
are based predominately on Microsoft Windows operating systems and use processors from Intel Corporation ("Intel") and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD"). Personal Systems also maintains a
multi-operating system, multi-architecture strategy using the Google Chrome and Android operating systems for notebooks and tablets, respectively.

Commercial PCs.Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers including enterprise and SMB customers, and for connectivity,
reliability and
manageability in networked environments. Commercial PCs include the HP ProBook and HP EliteBook lines of notebooks and hybrids (detachable tablets), the HP Pro and HP Elite lines of business desktops
and all-in-ones, retail POS systems, HP Thin Clients, HP ElitePad and HP Pro Tablet PCs. Commercial PCs also include workstations that are designed and optimized for high-performance and demanding
application environments including Z desktop workstations, Z all-in-ones and Z mobile workstations.









Consumer PCs.Consumer PCs include the HP Spectre, HP ENVY, HP Pavilion, HP Chromebook, HP Split and HP Slate series of multi-media
consumer
notebooks, hybrids and desktops, including the TouchSmart line of touch-enabled notebooks and all-in-one desktops.

Printing

Printing provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, media, software and services, as well as scanning devices.
Printing is also focused on imaging solutions in the commercial markets. These solutions range from managed print services to areas such as industrial applications, outdoor signage and the graphic
arts business. HP groups LaserJet, large format printers and commercial inkjet printers into Commercial Hardware and consumer and SMB inkjet printers into Consumer Hardware when describing performance
in these markets.

LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions.LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions delivers LaserJet and enterprise products, services and solutions
to the SMB and
enterprise segments including LaserJet printers and supplies (toner), Officejet Pro X inkjet enterprise products and supplies, multi-function devices, scanners, web-connected hardware, managed
services, and enterprise software solutions such as Web Jetadmin. Managed Print Services provides printing equipment, supplies, support, workflow optimization and security features for SMB and
enterprise customers around the world, utilizing proprietary HP tools and fleet management solutions, as well as third-party software.

Inkjet and Printing Solutions.Inkjet and Printing Solutions deliver consumer and SMB inkjet solutions (hardware, ink supplies, media,
and
web-connected hardware and services) and include single-function and all-in-one inkjet printers. Ongoing initiatives and programs, such as Ink in the Office and Ink Advantage, and newer initiatives,
such as Instant Ink, are intended to provide innovative printing solutions to consumers and SMBs. Our Ink in the Office initiative is focused on providing high value inkjet printing solutions to SMBs
through our Officejet Premium and Officejet Pro inkjet portfolios. Our Ink Advantage program aims to provide savings on the overall cost of printing in emerging markets. Instant Ink is an ink
replacement service that allows customers to pay a monthly fee to print a specified number of pages per month.

Graphics Solutions.Graphics Solutions deliver large format printers (Designjet, Large Format Production and Scitex Industrial),
specialty printing,
digital press solutions (Indigo and Inkjet Webpress), supplies and services to print service providers and design and rendering customers. The
solutions cover a wide range of printing applications such as technical design, photos, sign and display, direct mail, marketing collateral, labels and packaging, and publishing.

Software and Web Services.Software and Web Services delivers a suite of offerings, including document storage, entertainment services,
web-connected
printing, and PC back-up and related services.

Marketing Optimization.Marketing Optimization focuses on delivering solutions and software that help businesses engage audiences,
reach new customer
segments and markets and deliver compelling content across channels. The group provides solutions for augmented reality, contact center analytics, customer communications management and digital
experience management.

Enterprise Group

EG provides a broad portfolio of enterprise technology solutions to address customer needs in building the foundation for the next
generation of applications, web services and user experiences—which are only as rich, impactful and world-changing as the infrastructure platforms that they sit on. EG technology addresses
a wide range of customer challenges, including supporting new types of applications, new approaches to IT operations, and new demands and uses for insight, and managing new threats and risks. EG
technology also allows customers to capitalize on a wide range of trends and









opportunities,
from servicing new segments and buying behaviors to inventing new consumption models and creating new revenue streams. EG technology delivers customer outcomes through its innovative,
industry leading portfolio across servers, storage, networking, management software, converged infrastructure solutions, and technology services. In today's rapidly changing technology landscape,
customers face twin challenges when it comes to their infrastructure foundation: they must optimize their "traditional IT" to support existing applications, and they must simultaneously invest in
"cloud-first, mobile-first" infrastructure that will support the next generation of applications, web services and user experiences. The EG portfolio delivers products and services across servers,
storage and networking to reduce cost and continue high performance operations for traditional IT loads. For tomorrow's cloud-first, mobile first workloads, the EG portfolio provides products and
services across
converged solutions engineered for the world's most important workloads in cloud, mobility, infrastructure-as-a-service, and big data; HP OneView as the industry's only unified display
software-defined infrastructure management solution; HP Helion cloud portfolio delivering a broad offering of hybrid cloud solutions, cloud services and cloud software; and technology services to
advise customers on the right path to transforming their enterprises for tomorrow's digital era.

Industry Standard Servers.ISS offers a range of products from entry-level servers through premium ProLiant servers, which run
primarily Windows,
Linux and virtualization platforms from software providers such as Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") and VMware, Inc. ("VMware"), and open source software from other major vendors while
leveraging x86 processors from Intel and AMD. The business spans a range of server product lines, including microservers, towers, traditional rack, density-optimized rack and blades, solutions for
large, distributed computing companies who buy and deploy nodes at a massive scale. ISS also offers HP Moonshot servers operating on ARM, AMD and Intel Atom-based processors which offer reduced cost,
space, energy and complexity compared to traditional servers.

Business Critical Systems.Business Critical Systems delivers our mission-critical systems through a portfolio of HP Integrity servers
based on the
Intel Itanium processor that run the HP-UX and OpenVMS operating systems, as well as HP Integrity NonStop solutions and mission-critical x86 ProLiant servers.

Storage.Our storage offerings include platforms for enterprise and SMB environments. Our flagship product is the 3PAR StoreServ Storage
Platform,
which is designed for virtualization, cloud and IT-as-a-service. Traditional Storage solutions include tape, storage networking and legacy external disk products such as EVA and XP. Converged Storage
solutions include 3PAR StoreServ, StoreOnce and StoreVirtual products. These offerings enable customers to optimize their existing storage systems, build new virtualization solutions and facilitate
their transition to cloud computing.

Networking.Our networking offerings include switches, routers, wireless local area network ("WLAN") and network management products
that deliver
open, scalable, secure, agile and consistent solutions that span the data center, campus and branch environments and deliver software-defined networking and unified communications capabilities. Our
unified wired and wireless networking offerings include WLAN access points, controllers and switches. Our networking solutions are based on our FlexNetwork architecture, which is designed to enable
simplified server virtualization, unified communications and business application delivery for the enterprise. Software-defined networking provides an end-to-end solution to automate the network from
data center to campus and branch.

Technology Services.Technology Services provides Support and Consulting services. Support services offerings span various levels of
customer support
needs and include: HP Foundation Care, our portfolio of reactive hardware and software support services; HP Proactive Care, which combines remote support technology for real time monitoring with rapid
access to our technical experts; HP Datacenter Care, comprehensive, flexible end-to-end support that enables customers to build, operate or consume IT in private or hybrid cloud environments; and
Lifecycle Event services, which are event









based
services, offering our technology expertise and advice for each phase of the technology life cycle. These services are available in the form of service contracts, pre-packaged offerings (HP Care
Pack services) or on a customized basis. Consulting services are focused on cloud, mobility and big data and provide IT organizations with advice, design, implementation, migration and optimization of
EG's platforms: servers, storage, networking and converged infrastructure.

Enterprise Services

ES provides technology consulting, outsourcing and support services across infrastructure, applications and business process domains in
traditional and Strategic Enterprise Services offerings which includes analytics and data management, security and cloud services. ES leverages our investments in our consulting and support
professionals, infrastructure technology, applications, standardized methodologies and global supply and delivery capabilities. ES also creates opportunities for us to market additional hardware and
software by offering solutions that leverage our other products and services in order to meet our clients' needs.

Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing.The Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing group delivers comprehensive services that streamline
and help
optimize our clients' technology infrastructure to efficiently enhance performance, reduce costs, mitigate risk and enable business optimization. These services encompass the management of data
centers, IT security, cloud computing, workplace technology, networks, unified communications and enterprise service management. We also offer a set of managed services that provide a cross-section of
our broader infrastructure services for smaller, discrete engagements.

Application and Business Services.The Application and Business Services portfolio helps our clients develop, revitalize and manage
their
applications and information assets. Our complete application lifecycle approach encompasses application development, testing, modernization, system integration, maintenance and management for both
packaged and custom-built applications and cloud offerings. Our Application and Business Services portfolio also includes intellectual property-based industry solutions, along with technologies and
related services, all of which help our clients better manage their critical industry processes for customer relationship management, finance and administration, human resources, payroll and document
processing.

Software

Software portfolio provides big data analytics and applications, enterprise security, application testing and delivery management and
IT Operations Management solutions for businesses and other enterprises of all sizes. Our Software offerings include licenses, support, professional services and software-as-a-service ("SaaS"). Our
global business capabilities within Software are described below.

Big Data.Big Data group provides a full suite of software designed to help organizations capture, store, explore, analyze, protect and
share
information and insights within and outside their organizations to improve business outcomes, while also enabling them to manage risks and meet legal obligations. Our Big Data suite includes HP
Vertica, the leading analytics database technology for machine, structured and semi-structured data; HP IDOL, a unique analytics tool for human information; as well as solutions for archiving, data
protection, eDiscovery, information governance and enterprise content management.

Our
big data platform, Haven, brings these unique assets together for processing and understanding machine and sensor data, business data and unstructured human information. A growing
ecosystem of customers, partners and developers use this platform to build big data driven analytic applications. Our Software segment also leverages Haven's unique analytic assets to deliver
purpose-built solutions for a variety of markets, including application testing and delivery, big data analytics and applications, IT Operations Management, and enterprise security. These solutions
are designed for businesses and enterprises of all sizes, and are available via on-premise, as well as via SaaS and hybrid delivery models. Software's Haven big data platform and purpose-built
applications are augmented by our support and professional services offerings in order to provide an end-to-end solution to customers.







Application Delivery Management.The Application Delivery Management group provides software that enables organizations to deliver
high-performance
applications, accelerating the application delivery lifecycle and automating the testing processes to ensure the quality and scalability of desktop, web, mobile and cloud-based applications.

Enterprise Security.Enterprise Security software is designed to disrupt fraud, hackers and cyber criminals by testing and scanning
software and
websites for security vulnerabilities, improving network defenses and security, implementing security controls, safeguarding data at rest, in motion and in use (regardless of where software and data
reside), and providing security intelligence, analytics, and information management to identify threats and manage risk.

IT Operations Management.The IT Operations Management group provides the software required to automate routine IT tasks and to
pinpoint IT problems
as they occur, helping enterprises to reduce operational costs and improve the reliability of applications running in a traditional, cloud or hybrid environment.

HP Financial Services

HPFS provides flexible investment solutions for our customers, such as leasing, financing, IT consumption and utility programs and
asset management services that facilitate unique technology deployment models and the acquisition of complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services from HP and others. In order to
provide flexible services and capabilities that support the entire IT lifecycle, HPFS partners with our customers globally to help build investment strategies that enhance their business agility and
support their business transformation. HPFS offers a wide selection of investment solution capabilities for large enterprise customers and channel partners, along with an array of financial options to
SMBs and educational and governmental entities.

Corporate Investments

Corporate Investments includes HP Labs, certain enterprise-related business incubation projects and venture focused minority
investments, among others.

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

We manage our business and report our financial results based on the business segments described above. Our customers are organized by
consumer and commercial groups, and purchases of HP products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by HP or indirectly through a variety of partners,
including:

•retailers that sell our products to the public through their own physical or Internet stores;•resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer
groups;•distribution partners that supply our solutions to resellers;•original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products and services with their own products and services, and sell the
integrated solution;•independent software vendors that provide their clients with specialized software products and often assist us in selling our products
and services to clients purchasing their products;•systems integrators that provide expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions and often partner with us to extend their
expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and









•advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and typically
partner with us on client solutions that require our unique products and services.

The
mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market
conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts accordingly. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our coverage, in addition to identifying efficiencies and
productivity gains, in both our direct and indirect businesses. While each of our business segments manages the execution of its own go-to-market and distribution strategy, our business segments also
collaborate to ensure strategic and process alignment where appropriate. For example, we typically assign an account manager to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise
customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For other customers and for consumers, PPS typically manages direct online sales as well as
channel relationships with retailers, while our business segments collaborate to manage relationships with commercial resellers targeting SMBs where appropriate.

Manufacturing and Materials

We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers ("OMs") around the world to manufacture HP-designed products. The use of
OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing
processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs produce products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. In addition to our use of OMs, we currently manufacture a limited number of
finished products from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors.

We
utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and
logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer's particular hardware and software
customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by
taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers.

We
purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such alternate
sources of supply are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies,
certain customized parts and parts for products with short life cycles (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations in the event of a disruption). We are dependent upon Intel
and AMD as suppliers of x86 processors and Microsoft for various software products; however, we believe that disruptions with these suppliers would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore
would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See "Risk Factors—We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage
our suppliers effectively," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Like
other participants in the IT industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand
requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we may experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from
multiple sources. Frequently, we are able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on our gross margin but does not generally disrupt
production. We also may acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing









commitments
with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supplies. See "Risk Factors—We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we
fail to manage our suppliers effectively," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

International

Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis
for both consumer and enterprise customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset
geographic economic trends and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. In addition, we believe that future growth is dependent in part on our ability to develop products
and sales models that target developing countries. In this regard, we believe that our broad geographic presence gives us a solid base on which to build such future growth.

A
summary of our domestic and international net revenue and net property, plant and equipment is set forth in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8,
which is incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 64% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2015 came from outside the United States ("U.S.").

For
a discussion of risks attendant to HP's international operations, see "Risk Factors—Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or
other factors could harm our business and financial performance," in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk," in Item 7A and Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference.

Research and Development

Innovation is a key element of our culture. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and
solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires, and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique
contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences.

HP
Labs, together with the various research and development groups within our business segments, are responsible for our research and development efforts. HP Labs is part of our
Corporate Investments segment.

Expenditures
for research and development were $3.5 billion in fiscal 2015, $3.4 billion in fiscal 2014 and $3.1 billion in fiscal 2013. We anticipate that we will
continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our
competitive position.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see "Risk Factors—If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to
develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Patents

Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or
where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At October 31, 2015, our worldwide patent portfolio included over
33,000 patents, which represents a slight decrease over the number of patents in our portfolio at the end of fiscal 2014. As a result of the Separation, approximately 15,000 patents were transferred
to Hewlett Packard Enterprise beginning November 1, 2015.









Patents
generally have a term of twenty years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our
patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action
to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to HP as a
whole or to any of HP's business segments.

In
addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property ("IP") from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others
licenses, and other rights, under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to IP rights, see "Risk Factors—Our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual
property rights on which our businesses depend," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Backlog

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects due to our diverse products and services portfolio,
including the large volume of products delivered from finished goods or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not
material to an understanding of our overall business.

Seasonality

General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our
products and services experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are
often weaker in the summer months and consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market
anticipation of seasonal trends. See "Risk Factors—Our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable," in
Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Competition

We encounter strong competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance,
price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security,
availability of application software and internet infrastructure offerings.

The
markets for each of our business segments are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly
growing firms. Most product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively
on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products under
their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust
prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive.

We
have a broad technology portfolio spanning personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing-related products and services, enterprise IT infrastructure products and
solutions,









multi-vendor
customer services and IT management software and solutions. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our business segments.

The
competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below:

Personal Systems.The markets in which Personal Systems operates are highly competitive and are characterized by price competition. The
decline in
the PC market and the ongoing shift among customers to mobility products has further intensified competition in the PC market. Our primary competitors are Lenovo Group Limited ("Lenovo"),
Dell Inc. ("Dell"), Acer Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Apple Inc., Toshiba Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. ("Samsung"). In particular regions, we
also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white box" manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our innovation and research
and development capabilities, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support offerings and the accessibility of our
products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales.

Printing.The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive. Printing's key customer segments each face
competitive
market pressures in pricing and the introduction of new products. Our primary competitors include Canon U.S.A., Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation Ltd., Seiko
Epson Corporation, The Ricoh Company Ltd., Samsung and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer refill and remanufactured alternatives for HP original inkjet and
toner supplies, which are often available for lower prices but generally offer lower print quality and reliability. Other competitors also have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for
HP's laser and inkjet products, particularly outside of the U.S. where IP protection is inadequate or ineffective. Our competitive advantages include our comprehensive solutions for the home, office
and publishing environments, our innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand, and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and
commercial channels to direct sales.

Enterprise Group.EG operates in the highly competitive enterprise technology infrastructure market that is characterized by rapid and
ongoing
technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors include technology vendors such as International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), Dell, EMC Corporation ("EMC"), Cisco
Systems, Inc. ("Cisco"), Lenovo, Oracle Corporation ("Oracle"), Fujitsu Limited ("Fujitsu"), Inspur Co. Ltd., Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., NetApp, Inc.,
Hitachi Ltd., Juniper Networks, Inc., Arista Networks, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., VMware, Microsoft, Google Inc.,
Rackspace Inc., and Amazon.com, Inc. ("Amazon"). In certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white-box" manufacturers. Our
strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. Our
competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong IP portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner
ecosystem.

Enterprise Services.ES competes in the IT services, consulting and integration, infrastructure technology outsourcing, business
process outsourcing
and application services markets. Our primary competitors include IBM Global Services, Computer Sciences Corporation, systems integration firms such as Accenture plc and offshore companies such
as Fujitsu and India-based competitors Wipro Limited, Infosys Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. We also compete with other traditional hardware providers, such as Dell, which are
increasingly offering services to support their products, new players in emerging areas like cloud such as Amazon, and smaller local players. Many of our competitors offer a wide range of global
services, and some of our competitors enjoy significant brand recognition. ES teams with many companies to offer services, and those arrangements allow us to









extend
our reach and augment our capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our deep technology expertise, especially in complex multi-country, multi-vendor and/or multi-language environments,
our differentiated intellectual property, our strong track record of collaboration with clients and partners, and the combination of our expertise in infrastructure management with skilled global
resources on platforms from SAP AG ("SAP"), Oracle and Microsoft, among others.

Software.The markets in which our Software segment operates are characterized by rapidly changing customer requirements and
technologies. We design
and develop enterprise IT management software in competition with IBM, CA Technologies, Inc., VMware, BMC Software, Inc. and others. Our big data solutions, which include data analytics,
information governance and digital marketing offerings incorporating both structured and unstructured data, compete with products from companies like Adobe Systems Inc., IBM, EMC, Open Text
Corporation, Oracle and Symantec Corporation. We also deliver enterprise security/risk intelligence solutions that compete with products from EMC, IBM, Cisco and Intel. As customers are becoming
increasingly comfortable with newer delivery mechanisms such as SaaS, we are facing competition from smaller, less traditional competitors, particularly for customers with smaller IT organizations.
Our differentiation lies in the breadth and depth of our software, our collaboration with EG and ES to provide comprehensive IT solutions and services portfolio and the scope of our market coverage.

HP Financial Services.In our financing business, our competitors are captive financing companies, mainly IBM Global Financing, as well
as banks and
other financial institutions in our financing business. We believe our competitive advantage in this business over banks and other financial institutions is our ability to deliver flexible investment
solutions and expertise that help customers and other partners create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to these competitive factors, see "Risk Factors—We operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our
business and financial performance," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Environment

Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including
laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial
costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws.

Many
of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws regulating the manufacture
and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. Some of our products also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements
applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical
and materials composition of our products, their safe use, and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. We are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of
jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered
products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). In the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, our products could be restricted from entering certain
jurisdictions and we could face other sanctions, including fines.

Our
operations, and ultimately our products, are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties relating to
climate change.









As
these laws, regulations, treaties and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations
or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating
with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that HP technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with related laws, regulations and
treaties.

We
are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of
our business. We meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services.

A
liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when we consider it probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be
reasonably estimated. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future
environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material
capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to these environmental factors, see "Risk Factors—Our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and
regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, for
a discussion of our environmental contingencies see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is also incorporated herein by reference.

Executive Officers

The following are our current executive officers:

Rob Binns; age 47; Head of Global Treasury and Investor Relations

Mr. Binns has served as Head of Global Treasury and Investor Relations since November 2015. Mr. Binns joined
Hewlett-Packard Company in 2006 as Finance Director for HP Software in the Europe, Middle East and Africa regions following the acquisition of Mercury Interactive. Since then, Mr. Binns has
held a number of finance and business roles within HP Software, including Vice President of Worldwide Field Operations. Previously, Mr. Binns was Vice President of Investor Relations. Most
recently, Mr. Binns was the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for HP Software responsible for driving all finance activities.

Ron Coughlin; age 49; President, Personal Systems

Mr. Coughlin has served as President, Personal Systems since November 2015. Mr. Coughlin joined Hewlett-Packard Company
from PepsiCo in June 2007 as the senior vice president of the Imaging and Printing Group Worldwide Strategy and Marketing team. In 2010, Mr. Coughlin transitioned to lead the LaserJet and
Enterprise Solutions global business unit at Hewlett-Packard Company and later ran Consumer Personal Systems at Hewlett-Packard Company.

Jon Flaxman; age 58; Chief Operating Officer

Mr. Flaxman has served as Chief Operating Officer since November 2015. Previously, Mr. Flaxman served as Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer for Hewlett-Packard Company's Printing









and
Personal Systems Group. Prior to such role, he was Senior Vice President of Finance for Hewlett-Packard Company's Imaging and Printing Group for four years. From March 2007 to
November 2008, Mr. Flaxman was Chief Administrative Officer and Executive Vice President of Hewlett-Packard Company. Mr. Flaxman joined Hewlett-Packard Company in 1981.

Tracy S. Keogh; age 54; Chief Human Resources Officer

Ms. Keogh has served as Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2015. Previously, Ms. Keogh served as Executive Vice
President, Human Resources of Hewlett-Packard Company from April 2011 to November 2015. Prior to joining Hewlett-Packard Company, Ms. Keogh served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at
Hewitt Associates, a provider of human resources consulting services, from May 2007 until March 2011.

Catherine A. Lesjak; age 56; Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Lesjak has served as Chief Financial Officer since November 2015. Previously, Ms. Lesjak served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Hewlett-Packard Company from 2007 to November 2015. Prior to that, Ms. Lesjak served as Hewlett-Packard Company's interim Chief Executive Officer from
August 2010 until November 2010. She also serves as a director of SunPower Corporation.

Enrique Lores; age 50; President, Printing, Solutions and Services

Mr. Lores has served as President, Printing, Solutions and Services since November 2015. Throughout his 26-year tenure with
Hewlett-Packard Company, Mr. Lores held leadership positions across the organization, most recently leading the Separation Management Office for HP Inc. Previously, Mr. Lores was
the Senior Vice President and General Manager for Business Personal Systems. Before his Business Personal Systems role, Mr. Lores was Senior Vice President of Customer Support and Services.

Marie Myers; age 47; Global Controller and Head of Finance Services

Ms. Myers has served as Global Controller and Head of Finance Services since November 2015. Prior to that from October 2014 to
October 2015, Ms. Myers was Finance Lead for HP Inc. in the Separation, and held key leadership roles at Hewlett-Packard Company, including: Vice President for PPS HQ and Strategy
Finance from May 2012 to October 2015 and Vice President of Finance for PSG Americas from March 2010 to May 2012.

Kim Rivera; age 47; Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel

Ms. Rivera has served as Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel since November 2015. Prior to joining us, at DaVita Health Care
Partners she served as the Chief Legal Officer from July 2011 to October 2015, as Corporate Secretary from January 2010 to December 2013 and as Vice President and General Counsel from January 2010 to
July 2011. From February 2006 to November 2009, she served as Vice President and Associate General Counsel at The Clorox Company. Prior to that, Ms. Rivera served as Vice President Law and
Chief Litigation Counsel to Rockwell Automation as well as General Counsel for its Automation Controls and Information Group.

Dion J. Weisler; age 48; President and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Weisler has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since November 2015. Previously, he served as Executive Vice
President of the Printing and Personal Systems Group of Hewlett-Packard Company from June 2013 to November 2015 and as Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Printing and Personal Systems, Asia
Pacific and Japan from January 2012 to June 2013. Prior to joining









Hewlett-Packard
Company, he was Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Product and Mobile Internet Digital Home Groups at Lenovo Group Ltd., a technology company, from January 2008
to December 2011.

Employees

We had approximately 287,000 employees worldwide as of October 31, 2015.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://www.hp.com/investor/home, as soon as
reasonably practicable after HP electronically files such reports with, or furnishes those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. HP's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors'
committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Finance and Investment Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, Technology Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Social
Responsibility Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Standards of Business Conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents
from:

HP Inc.Attention: Investor Relations1501 Page Mill Road,Palo Alto, CA 94304http://www.hp.com/investor/informationrequest

Additional Information

Microsoft® and Windows® are U.S.-registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Intel®,
Itanium® , Intel®AtomTM, and Intel® Itanium® are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries. AMD is a trademark of
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ARM® is a registered trademark of ARM Limited. UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.







