ITEM 1. Business.

We are a leading global provider of products, technologies, software, solutions and services to individual consumers, small- and
medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. Our offerings span the
following:

•personal computing and other access devices;•imaging- and printing-related products and services;•enterprise information technology ("IT") infrastructure, including enterprise server and storage technology, networking
products and solutions, technology support and maintenance;•multi-vendor customer services, including technology consulting, outsourcing and support services across infrastructure,
applications and business process domains; and









•IT management software, application testing and delivery software, information management solutions, big data analytics,
security intelligence and risk management solutions.

HP
was incorporated in 1947 under the laws of the state of California as the successor to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard. Effective in May 1998, we
changed our state of incorporation from California to Delaware.

October 2014 Announcement of HP Separation Transaction

On October 6, 2014, we announced plans to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies: one comprising our enterprise
technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses, which will conduct business as Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and one that will comprise our printing and personal systems
businesses, which will conduct business as HP Inc. The separation is subject to certain conditions, including, among others, obtaining final approval from HP's Board of Directors, receipt of a
favorable opinion and/or rulings with respect to the tax-free nature of the transaction for federal income tax purposes and the effectiveness of a Form 10 filing with the SEC. The separation is
expected to be completed by the end of fiscal 2015. Under the separation plan, HP shareholders will own shares of both Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. The following chart provides an
overview of the planned separation and segment revenues of the respective businesses based on HP's fiscal 2014 results, excluding Corporate Investments and intercompany eliminations.



HP Products and Services; Segment Information

We offer one of the IT industry's broadest portfolios of products and services that bring together infrastructure, software, and
services through innovation to enable our customers to create value and solve business problems. As consumers and enterprises shift the way technology is created, delivered, consumed and paid for,
they are demanding a foundation that will support much greater agility, lower cost, facilitate quicker time-to-market, and provide a higher degree of accessibility by end-users to that technology. We
design our solutions to provide that foundation, particularly in the areas of security, cloud, mobility and big data, by leveraging the breadth of our offerings and the strengths and capabilities of
our individual business units.

Our
operations are organized into seven business segments: Personal Systems; Printing; the Enterprise Group ("EG"); Enterprise Services ("ES"); Software; HP Financial Services ("HPFS");
and Corporate Investments. In each of the past three fiscal years, notebook personal computers ("PCs"), printing supplies, infrastructure technology outsourcing services, desktop PCs and industry
standard servers each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue.

The
Personal Systems segment and the Printing segment are structured beneath a broader Printing and Personal Systems Group ("PPS"). While PPS is not a reportable segment, we may provide
financial









data
aggregating the Personal Systems and Printing segments to provide a supplementary view of its business.

A
summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments along with a description of our fiscal 2014 organizational realignments can be found in Note 2
to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. A discussion of factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A, which
is incorporated herein by reference.

Printing and Personal Systems Group

The mission of PPS is to leverage the respective strengths of the Personal Systems segment and the Printing segment by creating a
unified business that is customer-focused and poised to capitalize on rapidly shifting industry trends. Each of the business segments within PPS is described in detail below.

Personal Systems

Personal Systems provides commercial PCs, consumer PCs, workstations, thin client PCs, tablets, retail point-of-sale ("POS") systems,
calculators and other related accessories, software, support and services for the commercial and consumer markets. We group commercial notebooks, commercial desktops, commercial tablets, workstations
and thin clients into commercial clients and consumer notebooks, consumer desktops and consumer tablets into consumer clients when describing performance in these markets. Both commercial and consumer
PCs and tablets are based predominately on the Microsoft Windows operating system and use processors from Intel Corporation ("Intel") and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD"). Personal Systems
also maintains a multi-operating system, multi-architecture strategy using the Google Chrome and Android operating systems for notebooks and tablets, respectively.

Commercial PCs.Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers including enterprise and SMB customers, and for connectivity,
reliability and
manageability in networked environments. Commercial PCs include the HP ProBook and HP EliteBook lines of notebooks and hybrids (detachable tablets), the HP Pro and HP Elite lines of business desktops
and all-in-ones, retail POS systems, HP Thin Clients, HP ElitePad and HP Pro Tablet PCs. Commercial PCs also include workstations that are designed and optimized for high-performance and demanding
application environments including Z desktop workstations, Z all-in-ones and Z mobile workstations.

Consumer PCs.Consumer PCs include the HP Spectre, HP ENVY, HP Pavilion, HP Chromebook, HP
Split and HP Slate series of multi-media consumer notebooks, consumer tablets, hybrids and desktops, including the TouchSmart line of touch-enabled notebooks and all-in-one desktops.

Printing

Printing provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, media, software and services, as well as scanning devices.
Printing is also focused on imaging solutions in the commercial markets. These solutions range from managed print services to areas such as industrial applications, outdoor signage and the graphic
arts business. HP groups LaserJet, large format printers and commercial inkjet printers into Commercial Hardware and consumer and SMB inkjet printers into Consumer Hardware when describing performance
in these markets.

LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions.LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions delivers LaserJet and enterprise products, services and solutions
to the SMB and
enterprise segments including LaserJet printers and supplies (toner), Officejet Pro X inkjet enterprise products and supplies, multi-function devices, scanners, web-connected hardware, managed
services, and enterprise software solutions such as









Web
Jetadmin. Managed Print Services provides printing equipment, supplies, support, workflow optimization and security features for SMB and enterprise customers around the world, utilizing
proprietary HP tools and fleet management solutions, as well as third-party software.

Inkjet and Printing Solutions.Inkjet and Printing Solutions deliver consumer and SMB inkjet solutions (hardware, supplies, media, and
web-connected
hardware and services) and include single-function and all-in-one inkjet printers. Ongoing initiatives and programs, such as Ink in the Office and Ink Advantage, and newer initiatives, such as Instant
Ink, are intended to provide innovative printing solutions to consumers and SMBs. Our Ink in the Office initiative is focused on providing high value inkjet printing solutions to SMBs through our
Officejet Premium and Officejet Pro inkjet portfolios. Our Ink Advantage program aims to provide savings on the overall cost of printing in emerging markets. Instant Ink is an ink replacement service
that allows customers to pay a monthly fee to print a specified number of pages per month.

Graphics Solutions.Graphics Solutions deliver large format printers (Designjet, Large Format Production and Scitex Industrial),
specialty printing,
digital press solutions (Indigo and Inkjet Webpress), supplies and services to print service providers and design and rendering customers. The solutions cover a wide range of printing applications
such as technical design, photos, sign and display, direct mail, marketing collateral, labels and packaging, and publishing.

Software and Web Services.Software and Web Services delivers a suite of offerings, including photo-storage and printing offerings
(such as
Snapfish), document storage, entertainment services, web-connected printing, and PC back-up and related services.

Enterprise Group

EG provides a broad portfolio of enterprise technology infrastructure solutions for a variety of operating environments that address a
wide range of customer challenges, including the need to increase agility and accelerate innovation in order to drive revenue, manage risk and lower costs. HP Helion, our enterprise technology
infrastructure portfolio of servers, storage, networking and technology services combined with HP's cloud services and software, allows customers to adopt a holistic approach to building a technology
infrastructure that supports their current business and consumer demands and next generation applications and web services. HP's Converged Systems portfolio (servers, storage and networking)
simplifies IT through quick deployment, intuitive management and system-level support. Optimized for key workloads such as virtualization, cloud and big data, these complete, integrated solutions
enable organizations of all sizes to efficiently utilize IT staffing resources and deploy applications faster.

Industry Standard Servers.Industry Standard Servers offers a range of products from entry-level servers through premium ProLiant
servers, which run
primarily Windows, Linux and virtualization platforms from software providers such as Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") and VMware, Inc. ("VMware"), and open source software from other major
vendors while leveraging x86 processors from Intel and AMD. The business spans a range of server product lines, including microservers, towers, traditional rack, density-optimized rack and blades,
solutions for large, distributed computing companies who buy and deploy nodes at a massive scale. Industry Standard Servers also offers HP Moonshot servers operating on ARM, AMD and Intel Atom-based
processors which offer reduced cost, space, energy and complexity compared to traditional servers.

Business Critical Systems.Business Critical Systems delivers our mission-critical systems through a portfolio of HP Integrity servers
based on the
Intel Itanium processor that run the HP-UX and OpenVMS operating systems, as well as HP Integrity NonStop solutions and mission-critical x86 ProLiant servers.









Storage.Our storage offerings include platforms for enterprise and SMB environments. Our flagship product is the 3PAR StoreServ
Storage Platform,
which is designed for virtualization, cloud and IT-as-a-service. Traditional Storage solutions include tape, storage networking and legacy external disk products such as EVA and XP. Converged Storage
solutions include 3PAR StoreServ, StoreOnce and StoreVirtual products. These offerings enable customers to optimize their existing storage systems, build new virtualization solutions and facilitate
their transition to cloud computing.

Networking.Our networking offerings include switches, routers, wireless local area network ("WLAN") and network management products
that deliver
open, scalable, secure, agile and consistent solutions that span the data center, campus and branch environments and deliver software-defined networking and unified communications capabilities. Our
unified wired and wireless networking offerings include both WLAN access points, controllers and switches. Our networking solutions are based on our FlexNetwork architecture, which is designed to
enable simplified server virtualization, unified communications and multi-media application delivery for the enterprise. Software-defined networking provides an end-to-end solution to automate the
network from data center to campus and branch.

Technology Services.Technology Services provides support services and technology consulting, focused on cloud, mobility and big data
and provides IT
organizations with advice, design, implementation, migration and optimization of EG's platforms: servers, storage, networking and converged infrastructure. Support services offerings span various
levels of customer support needs and include: HP Foundation Care, our portfolio of reactive hardware and software support services; HP Proactive Care, which combines remote support technology for
real-time monitoring with rapid access to our technical experts; HP Datacenter Care, a comprehensive and flexible capacity end-to-end support for HP and multi-vendor systems that enables customers to
build, operate or consume IT in traditional, cloud or hybrid cloud environments; and Lifecycle Event services, which are event-based services offering our technology expertise and consulting for each
phase of the technology life cycle. These services are available in the form of service contracts, pre-packaged offerings (HP Care Pack services) or on a customized basis.

Enterprise Services

ES provides technology consulting, outsourcing and support services across infrastructure, applications and business process domains.
ES delivers to our clients by leveraging investments in consulting and support professionals, infrastructure technology, applications, standardized methodologies and global supply and delivery. ES
also creates opportunities to sell additional hardware and software by offering solutions that encompass both products and services.

Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing.Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing delivers comprehensive services that streamline and
optimize our
clients' technology infrastructure to efficiently enhance performance, reduce costs, mitigate risk and enable business change. These services encompass the management of data centers, IT security,
cloud computing, workplace technology, networks, unified communications and enterprise service management. We also offer a set of managed services that provide a cross-section of our broader
infrastructure services for smaller, discrete engagements.

Application and Business Services.Application and Business Services helps our clients develop, revitalize and manage their
applications and
information assets. This full application life cycle approach encompasses application development, testing, modernization, system integration, maintenance and management for both packaged and
custom-built applications and cloud offerings. The Application and Business Services portfolio also includes intellectual property-based industry solutions, along with technologies and related
services all of which help clients better manage their critical industry processes for customer relationship management, finance and administration, human resources, payroll and document processing.









Software

Software provides IT management, application testing and delivery, information management, big data analytics, security intelligence
and risk management solutions for businesses and enterprises of all sizes. Our software offerings include licenses, support, professional services and software-as-a-service ("SaaS"). Described below
are our global business capabilities within Software.

Application Delivery Managementwhich is part of HP's IT management offerings, provides software that enables organizations to deliver
high performance applications by automating and testing the processes required to ensure the quality and scalability of desktop, web, mobile and cloud-based applications.

Big Dataprovides a full suite of software designed to help organizations store, explore, govern, protect and serve information and
insights that fundamentally improve the outcomes of businesses and the environment, while managing risk and meeting legal obligations. The group's suite includes HP Vertica, the leading analytics
platform for machine, structured and semi-structured data, HP IDOL, a unique analytics platform for human information from Autonomy, as well as market leading solutions for archiving, data protection,
eDiscovery, information governance and Enterprise Content Management.

Enterprise Securitysoftware is designed to disrupt fraud, hackers and cyber criminals by scanning software and websites for security
vulnerabilities, improving network defenses and providing real-time warning of threats as they emerge.

IT Operations Managementwhich is part of HP's IT management offerings, provides software required to automate routine IT tasks and to
pinpoint IT problems when they occur, helping enterprises to reduce operational costs and improve the reliability of applications running in a traditional, cloud or hybrid environment.

Marketing Optimizationfocuses on delivering solutions that help businesses engage audiences, reach new customer segments and markets and
deliver compelling content across channels. The group provides solutions for augmented reality, contact center analytics, customer communications management and digital experience management.

Software's
big data platform, HAVEn, provides unique assets for processing and understanding machine and sensor data, business data and unstructured human information. A growing
ecosystem of customers, partners and developers use this platform to build big data driven analytic applications. Software also leverages HAVEn's unique analytic assets to deliver market-leading,
purpose-built solutions for a variety of markets, including application testing and delivery, big data analytics and
applications, IT operations management, marketing optimization and enterprise security. These solutions are designed for businesses and enterprises of all sizes, and are available via on-premises,
SaaS and hybrid delivery models. Software's HAVEn big data platform and purpose-built applications are augmented by support and professional services in order to provide an end-to-end solution to
customers.

HP Financial Services

HPFS provides flexible investment solutions, such as leasing, financing, utility programs and asset management services, for customers
to enable the creation of unique technology deployment models and acquisition of complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services from HP and others. Providing flexible services and
capabilities that support the entire IT lifecycle, HPFS partners with customers globally to help build investment strategies that enhance their business agility and support their business
transformation. HPFS offers a wide selection of investment solution capabilities for large enterprise customers and channel partners, along with an array of financial options to SMBs, educational and
governmental entities.









Corporate Investments

Corporate Investments includes HP Labs and certain cloud-related business incubation projects among others.

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

We manage our business and report our financial results based on the business segments described above. Our customers are organized by
consumer and commercial groups, and purchases of HP products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by HP or indirectly through a variety of partners,
including:

•retailers that sell our products to the public through their own physical or Internet stores;•resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted
customer groups;•distribution partners that supply our solutions to resellers;•original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products and services with their own products and services,
and sell the integrated solution;•independent software vendors that provide their clients with specialized software products and often assist us in selling
our products and services to clients purchasing their products;•systems integrators that provide expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions and often partner with us to
extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and•advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and
typically partner with us on client solutions that require our unique products and services.

The
mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market
conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts accordingly. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our coverage, in addition to identifying efficiencies and
productivity gains, in both our direct and indirect businesses. While each of our business segments manages the execution of its own
go-to-market and distribution strategy, our business segments also collaborate to ensure strategic and process alignment where appropriate. For example, we typically assign an account manager,
generally from EG or ES, to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For
other customers and for consumers, PPS typically manages direct online sales as well as channel relationships with retailers, while our business segments collaborate to manage relationships with
commercial resellers targeting SMBs where appropriate.

Manufacturing and Materials

We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers ("OMs") around the world to manufacture HP-designed products. The use of
OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing
processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs produce products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. In addition to our use of OMs, we currently manufacture a limited number of finished
products from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors.







We utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to
maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer's particular
hardware and software customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory
holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers.

We
purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such alternate
sources of supply are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies, certain customized parts and parts for products with short life cycles
(although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations in the event of a disruption). We are dependent upon Intel and AMD as suppliers of x86 processors and Microsoft for various
software products; however, we believe that disruptions with these suppliers would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our
competitors. See "Risk Factors—We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly," in Item 1A, which is incorporated
herein by reference.

Like
other participants in the IT industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand
requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we may experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from
multiple sources. Frequently, we are able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on our gross margin but does not generally disrupt
production. We also may acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of
supply. See "Risk Factors—We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly," in Item 1A, which is incorporated
herein by reference.

International

Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis
for both consumer and enterprise customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset
geographic economic trends and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. In addition, we believe that future growth is dependent in part on our ability to develop products
and sales models that target developing countries. In this regard, we believe that our broad geographic presence gives us a solid base on which to build such future growth.

A
summary of our domestic and international net revenue and net property, plant and equipment is set forth in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8,
which is incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 65% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2014 came from outside the United States ("U.S.").

For
a discussion of risks attendant to HP's international operations, see "Risk Factors—Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or
other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition," in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk," in Item 7A and
Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference.









Research and Development

Innovation is a key element of our culture. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and
solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires, and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique
contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences.

HP
Labs, together with the various research and development groups within our business segments, are responsible for our research and development efforts. HP Labs is part of our
Corporate Investments segment.

Expenditures
for research and development were $3.4 billion in fiscal 2014, $3.1 billion in fiscal 2013 and $3.4 billion in fiscal 2012. We anticipate that we will
continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our
competitive position.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see "Risk Factors—If we cannot successfully execute on our strategy and continue to develop,
manufacture and market products, services and solutions that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer," in Item 1A, which is incorporated
herein by reference.

Patents

Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or
where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At October 31, 2014, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 34,000 patents, which represents a decrease over
the number of patents in our portfolio at the end of fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. This decrease is attributable, in part, to the sale of a portfolio of mobile computing intellectual property ("IP") in
January 2014.

Patents
generally have a term of twenty years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our
patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive
differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and
development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to HP as a whole or to any of HP's business segments.

In
addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license IP from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses, and other rights,
under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to IP rights, see "Risk Factors—Our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the IP
rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their IP rights," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Backlog

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects due to our diverse products and services portfolio,
including the large volume of products delivered from finished goods or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not
material to an understanding of our overall business.









Seasonality

General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our
products and services experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are
often weaker in the summer months and consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market
anticipation of seasonal trends. See
"Risk Factors—Our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by
reference.

Competition

We encounter strong competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance,
price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security,
availability of application software and internet infrastructure offerings.

The
markets for each of our business segments are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly
growing firms. Most product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively
on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products under
their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust
prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive.

We
have a broad technology portfolio spanning personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing-related products and services, enterprise IT infrastructure products and
solutions, multi-vendor customer services and IT management software and solutions. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our business segments.

The
competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below:

Personal Systems.The markets in which Personal Systems operates are highly competitive and are characterized by price competition and
inventory
obsolescence. The decline in the PC market and the ongoing shift among customers to mobility products has further intensified competition in the PC market. Our primary competitors are Lenovo Group
Limited ("Lenovo"), Dell Inc. ("Dell"), Acer Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Apple Inc., Toshiba Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. ("Samsung"). In
particular regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white box" manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our
innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and
support offerings and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales.

Printing.The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive. Printing's key customer segments each face
competitive
market pressures in pricing and the introduction of new products. Our primary competitors include Canon U.S.A., Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation Ltd., Seiko Epson
Corporation, The Ricoh Company Ltd., Samsung and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer refill and remanufactured alternatives for HP original inkjet and toner
supplies, which are often available for lower prices but generally offer lower print quality and reliability. Other competitors also have









developed
and marketed new compatible cartridges for HP's laser and inkjet products, particularly outside of the U.S. where IP protection is inadequate or ineffective. Our competitive advantages
include our comprehensive solutions for the home, office and publishing environments, our innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand, and the accessibility of our products through
a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales.

Enterprise Group.EG operates in the highly competitive enterprise technology infrastructure market that is characterized by rapid and
ongoing
technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors include technology vendors such as International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), Dell, EMC Corporation ("EMC"), Cisco
Systems, Inc. ("Cisco"), Lenovo, Oracle Corporation ("Oracle"), Fujitsu Limited ("Fujitsu"), Inspur, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., NetApp, Inc., Hitachi Ltd., Juniper
Networks, Inc., Arista Networks, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., VMware, Microsoft, Google Inc., Rackspace Inc., and
Amazon.com, Inc. ("Amazon"). In certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white-box" manufacturers. Our strategy is to deliver
superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. Our competitive advantages
include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong IP portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem.

Enterprise Services.ES competes in the IT services, consulting and integration, infrastructure technology outsourcing, business process
outsourcing
and application service markets. Our primary competitors include IBM Global Services, Computer Sciences Corporation, systems integration firms such as
Accenture plc. and offshore companies such as Fujitsu and India-based competitors Wipro Limited, Infosys Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. We also compete with other traditional
hardware providers, such as Dell, which are increasingly offering services to support their products, new players in emerging areas like cloud such as Amazon, and smaller local players. Many of our
competitors offer a wide range of global services, and some of our competitors enjoy significant brand recognition. ES teams with many companies to offer services, and those arrangements allow us to
extend our reach and augment our capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our deep technology expertise, especially in complex multi-country, multi-vendor and/or multi-language environments,
differentiated IP, our strong track record of collaboration with clients and partners, and the combination of our expertise in infrastructure management with skilled global resources on platforms from
SAP AG ("SAP"), Oracle and Microsoft, among others.

Software.The markets in which Software operates are fueled by rapidly changing customer requirements and technologies. We design and
develop
enterprise IT management software in competition with IBM, CA Technologies, Inc., VMware, BMC Software, Inc. and others. Our big data solutions, which include data analytics, information
governance and digital marketing offerings incorporating both structured and unstructured data, compete with products from companies like Adobe Systems Inc., IBM, EMC, Open Text Corporation,
Oracle and Symantec Corporation. We also deliver enterprise security/risk intelligence solutions that compete with products from EMC, IBM, Cisco and Intel. As customers are becoming increasingly
comfortable with newer delivery mechanisms such as SaaS, we are facing competition from smaller, less traditional competitors, particularly for customers with smaller IT organizations. Our
differentiation lies in the breadth and depth of our software and services portfolio and the scope of our market coverage.

HP Financial Services.In our financing solution business, our competitors are captive financing companies, mainly IBM Global Financing,
 as well as
banks and other financial institutions. We believe our competitive advantage in this business over banks and other financial institutions is our ability to deliver flexible investment solutions and
expertise that help customers and partners create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs.









For
a discussion of risks attendant to these competitive factors, see "Risk Factors—Competitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects," in
Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Environment

Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including
laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial
costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws.

Many
of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws regulating the manufacture
and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. Some of our products also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements
applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical
and materials composition of our products, their safe use, and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. We are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of
jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered
products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). In the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, our products could be restricted from entering certain
jurisdictions and we could face other sanctions, including fines.

Our
operations and ultimately our products are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties relating to
climate change. As these laws, regulations, treaties and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market
access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we
are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that HP technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with related laws,
regulations and treaties.

We
are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of
our business. We meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services.

A
liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when we consider it probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be
reasonably estimated. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future
environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial
condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to these environmental factors, see "Risk Factors—Unforeseen environmental costs could adversely affect our business and results of
operations," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, for a discussion of our environmental contingencies see









Note 15
to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is also incorporated herein by reference.

Executive Officers

The following are our current executive officers:

Martin Fink; age 50; Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer

Mr. Fink has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and Director of HP Labs since November 2012. Prior to
that, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Business Critical Systems and Converged Application Systems from April 2005 to October 2012. During his almost 30 year career
at HP, Mr. Fink has worked in a wide range of roles across HP. He also serves as a director of Hortonworks, Inc.

Henry Gomez; age 51; Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer

Mr. Gomez has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing and Communications Officer since August 2013. Previously,
he served as Chief Communications Officer and Executive Vice President from January 2012 to July 2013. Prior to that, he ran HSG Communications, a consulting business that he founded in September
2008. He also served on the leadership team of Ms. Whitman's gubernatorial campaign from February 2009 to November 2010. For most of the previous decade, he worked at eBay Inc. in a
variety of roles including Senior Vice President for Corporate Communications and President of Skype. From September 2011 to September 2013 he served as a director of BJ's Restaurants, Inc.

John M. Hinshaw; age 44; Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations

Mr. Hinshaw has served as Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations since November 2011. Previously,
Mr. Hinshaw served as Vice President and General Manager of Information Solutions at The Boeing Company, an aerospace company, from January 2011 to October 2011 and as Global Chief Information
Officer for Boeing from June 2007 to December 2010. He also serves as a director of Bank of New York Mellon.

Abdo George Kadifa; age 55; Executive Vice President, Strategic Relationships

Mr. Kadifa has served as Executive Vice President, Strategic Relationships since May 2014. Previously, Mr. Kadifa served
as Executive Vice President, Software from May 2012 to May 2014. Prior to that, he served as a director of Silver Lake, a private equity firm, from June 2007 to May 2012.

Tracy S. Keogh; age 53; Executive Vice President, Human Resources

Ms. Keogh has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources since April 2011. Previously, Ms. Keogh served as
Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Hewitt Associates, a provider of human resources consulting services, from May 2007 until March 2011.

Catherine A. Lesjak; age 55; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Lesjak has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2007. Ms. Lesjak served as
interim Chief Executive Officer from August 2010 until November 2010. She also serves as a director of SunPower Corporation.









Todd R. Morgenfeld; age 42; Treasurer and Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Corporate Analytics

Mr. Morgenfeld has served as Treasurer and Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Corporate Analytics since November
2013. Previously, Mr. Morgenfeld served as Senior Vice President, HP Mobility, supporting our strategy of providing integrated solutions for the rapidly changing information technology
landscape, from June 2013 to October 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Morgenfeld served in several roles at Silver Lake, a private equity firm, from 2004 until May 2013, most recently serving as a
director.

Michael G. Nefkens; age 45; Executive Vice President, Enterprise Services

Mr. Nefkens has served as Executive Vice President, Enterprise Services since December 2012. Previously, he served in that role
in an acting capacity since August 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Nefkens served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Enterprise Services in the EMEA region from November 2009 to August
2012, after having served in client-facing roles for some of Enterprise Services' largest clients since joining the business in 2001. He also serves as a director of Riverbed Technology, Inc.

Jeff T. Ricci; age 53; Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer

Mr. Ricci has served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer since April 2014. Previously,
Mr. Ricci served as Controller and Principal Accounting Officer on an interim basis from November 2013 to April 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Ricci served as Vice President of Finance for our
Technology and Operations organization from May 2012 to November 2013. Mr. Ricci served as Vice President of Finance for Global Accounts and HP Financial Services from March 2011 to May 2012
and Vice President of Finance for HP Software from March 2009 to March 2011. Prior to joining HP, Mr. Ricci served as Senior Vice President of Finance for BEA Systems, Inc., an enterprise
software company, from 2000 until June 2008.

John F. Schultz; age 50; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Mr. Schultz has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since April 2012. Previously, he served as
Deputy General Counsel for Litigation, Investigations and Global Functions from September 2008 to April 2012. From March 2005 to September 2008, Mr. Schultz was a partner in the litigation
practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, where, among other clients, he supported HP as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters.

William L. Veghte; age 47; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Group

Mr. Veghte has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Enterprise Group since August 2013. Previously, he
served as Chief Operating Officer from May 2012 to August 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Veghte served as Executive Vice President of HP Software from May 2010 to May 2012. Prior to joining HP,
Mr. Veghte served as Senior Vice President of the Windows business group at Microsoft Corporation, a software company, from February 2008 until January 2010.

Dion J. Weisler; age 47; Executive Vice President, Printing and Personal Systems Group

Mr. Weisler has served as Executive Vice President of the Printing and Personal Systems Group since June 2013. Previously, he
served as Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Printing and Personal Systems, Asia Pacific and Japan from January 2012 to June 2013. Prior to joining HP, he was Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer of the Product and Mobile Internet Digital Home Groups at Lenovo Group Ltd., a technology company, from January 2008 to December 2011.









Margaret C. Whitman; age 58; Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Ms. Whitman has served as Chairman since July 2014, President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2011 and as a member
of our Board of Directors since January 2011. From March 2011 to September 2011, Ms. Whitman served as a part-time strategic advisor to Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a private equity
firm. Previously, Ms. Whitman served as President and Chief Executive Officer of eBay Inc., from 1998 to March 2008. Prior to joining eBay, Ms. Whitman held executive-level
positions at Hasbro Inc., FTD, Inc., The Stride Rite Corporation, The Walt Disney Company, and Bain & Company. Ms. Whitman also serves as a director of The Procter &
Gamble Company and is a former director of Zipcar, Inc.

Robert Youngjohns; age 63; Executive Vice President and General Manager, HP Software

Mr. Youngjohns has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of HP Software since May 2014. Previously,
Mr. Youngjohns served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Autonomy /Information Management business unit, within HP Software from September 2012 to May 2014. Prior to joining
HP, he was President of Microsoft North America from September 2007 to September 2012 and was President and Chief Executive Officer of Callidus Software from August 2005 to September 2007. Prior to
that, he spent 10 years at Sun Microsystems, where he had a variety of leadership positions in sales and general management both regionally and globally.

Employees

We had approximately 302,000 employees worldwide as of October 31, 2014.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://www.hp.com/investor/home, as soon as
reasonably practicable after HP electronically files such reports with, or furnishes those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. HP's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors'
committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Finance and Investment Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, Technology Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Social
Responsibility Committee) and code of ethics
entitled "Standards of Business Conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from:

Hewlett-Packard
CompanyAttention: Investor Relations3000 Hanover StreetPalo Alto, CA 94304http://www.hp.com/investor/informationrequest

Additional Information

Microsoft® and Windows® are U.S.-registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Intel®,
Itanium® , Intel®AtomTM, and Intel® Itanium® are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries. AMD is a trademark of
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ARM® is a registered trademark of ARM Limited. UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.







