ITEM 1. Business.

HP is a leading global provider of products, technologies, software, solutions and services to individual consumers, small- and
medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. Our offerings span:

•multi-vendor customer services, including infrastructure technology and business process outsourcing, technology support
and maintenance, application development and support services and consulting and integration services;•enterprise information technology infrastructure, including enterprise storage and server technology, networking products
and solutions, information management software and software that optimizes business technology investments;•personal computing and other access devices; and•imaging and printing-related products and services.

HP
was incorporated in 1947 under the laws of the State of California as the successor to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard. Effective in
May 1998, we changed our state of incorporation from California to Delaware.









HP Products and Services; Segment Information

Our operations are organized into seven business segments: Services, Enterprise Storage and Servers ("ESS"), HP Software, the Personal
Systems Group ("PSG"), the Imaging and Printing Group ("IPG"), HP Financial Services ("HPFS"), and Corporate Investments. Services, ESS and HP Software are reported collectively as a broader HP
Enterprise Business. While the HP Enterprise Business is not an operating segment, we sometimes provide financial data aggregating the segments within it in order to provide a supplementary view of
our business. In each of the past three fiscal years, notebooks, desktops and printing supplies each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. In fiscal 2009 and 2010,
infrastructure technology outsourcing also accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue.

A
summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments and business units is found in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. A discussion of factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by
reference.

HP Enterprise Business

The HP Enterprise Business provides servers, storage, software and information technology ("IT") services that enable enterprise and
midmarket business customers to better manage their current IT environments and transform IT into a business enabler. HP Enterprise
Business products, software and services help accelerate growth, minimize risk and reduce costs to optimize the business value of customers' IT investments. Companies around the globe leverage HP's
infrastructure solutions to deploy next generation data centers and address business challenges ranging from compliance to business continuity. The HP Enterprise Business's modular IT systems and
services are primarily standards-based and feature differentiated technologies in areas including power and cooling, unified management, security, virtualization and automation. Each of the three
financial reporting segments within the HP Enterprise Business are described in detail below.

Services

Services provides consulting, outsourcing and technology services across infrastructure, applications and business process domains.
Services delivers to its clients by leveraging investments in consulting and support professionals, infrastructure technology, applications, standardized methodologies, and global supply and delivery.
Our services businesses also create opportunities for us to sell additional hardware units by offering solutions that encompass both products and services. Services is divided into four main business
units: infrastructure technology outsourcing, technology services, applications services and business process outsourcing.

Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing.Infrastructure technology outsourcing delivers comprehensive services that streamline and
optimize our
clients' infrastructure to efficiently enhance performance, reduce costs, mitigate risk and enable business change. These services encompass the data center and the workplace (desktop); network and
communications; and security, compliance and business continuity. We also offer a set of managed services, providing a cross-section of our broader infrastructure services for smaller discrete
engagements.

Technology Services.HP provides consulting and support services, as well as warranty support across HP's product lines. HP specializes
in keeping
technology running with mission critical services, converged infrastructure services, networking services, data center transformation services and infrastructure services for storage, server and
unified communication environments. HP's technology services offerings are available in the form of service contracts, pre-packaged offerings (HP Care Pack services) or on an individual
basis.









Application Services.Applications services help clients revitalize and manage their applications assets through flexible,
project-based, consulting
services and longer-term outsourcing contracts. These full life cycle services encompass application development, testing, modernization, system integration, maintenance and management.
Applications projects open doors to new infrastructure technology outsourcing and business process outsourcing opportunities and represent attractive cross-selling opportunities to current HP clients.

Business Process Outsourcing.Business process outsourcing is powered by a platform of underlying infrastructure technology,
applications and
standardized methodologies and is supplemented by IT experience and in-depth, industry-specific knowledge. These services encompass both industry-specific and cross-industry solutions. Our
cross-industry solutions include a broad array of enterprise shared services, customer relationship management services, financial process management services and administrative services.

Enterprise Storage and Servers

The server market continues to shift towards standards-based architectures as proprietary hardware and operating systems are replaced
by industry standard server platforms that typically offer compelling price and performance advantages by leveraging standards-based operating systems and microprocessor designs. At the same time,
critical business functions continue to demand scalability and reliability. By providing a broad portfolio of storage and server solutions, ESS aims to optimize the combined product solutions required
by different customers and provide solutions for a wide range of operating environments, spanning both the enterprise and the SMB markets. ESS provides storage and server products in a number of
categories.

Industry Standard Servers.Industry standard servers include primarily entry-level and mid-range ProLiant servers, which run primarily
Windows®, Linux and Novell operating systems and leverage Intel Corporation ("Intel") and Advanced Micro Devices ("AMD") processors. The business spans a range of product lines that
include pedestal-tower servers, density-optimized rack servers and HP's BladeSystem family of server blades. In fiscal 2010, HP's industry standard server business continued to lead the industry in
terms of units shipped and revenue. HP also has a leadership position in server blades, the fastest growing segment of the market.

Business Critical Systems.Business Critical Systems include HP Integrity servers based on the Intel® Itanium®-based
processor that run HP-UX, Windows and OpenVMS operating systems, as well as fault-tolerant HP Integrity NonStop solutions. Business Critical Systems also include HP's scale-up
x86 ProLiant servers with more than four processors. In addition, HP continues to support the HP9000 servers and HP AlphaServers with compelling offers available to upgrade these legacy systems to
current HP Integrity systems. During 2010, we introduced new Integrity blade servers and the Superdome 2 server solution based on the BladeSystem architecture.

Storage.HP's StorageWorks offerings include entry-level, mid-range and high-end arrays, storage area networks, network
attached storage, storage management software and virtualization technologies, as well as StoreOnce data deduplication solutions, tape drives, tape libraries and optical archival storage.

HP Software

HP Software is a leading provider of enterprise and service-provider software and services. Our portfolio consists of:

Enterprise IT management software.Enterprise IT management solutions, including support and professional services, allow customers to
manage IT
infrastructure, operations, applications, IT services, and business processes. These solutions also include tools to automate data center operations and IT











processes.
We market them as the HP business technology optimization suite, and we deliver them in the form of traditional software licenses and, in some cases, via a
software-as-a-service distribution model.

Information management and business intelligence solutions.Our information management and business intelligence solutions include
information data
strategy, enterprise data warehousing, data integration, data protection, archiving, compliance, e-discovery and records management products. These solutions enable businesses to extract
more value from their structured and unstructured information.

Communications and media solutions.Our communications and media industry solutions address the creation, delivery and management of
consumer and
enterprise communications services, with offerings in service delivery infrastructure and applications, real-time business support systems, next-generation operations support
systems and digital media. These solutions enable operators, media companies, and network equipment providers to drive incremental revenue, enable new business models and reduce infrastructure costs.

Personal Systems Group

PSG is the leading provider of personal computers ("PCs") in the world based on unit volume shipped and annual revenue. PSG provides
commercial PCs, consumer PCs, workstations, handheld computing devices, calculators and other related accessories, software and services for the commercial and consumer markets. We group commercial
desktops, commercial notebooks and workstations into commercial clients and consumer desktop and consumer notebooks into consumer clients when describing our performance in these markets. Like the
broader PC market, PSG continues to experience a shift toward mobile products such as notebooks. Both commercial and consumer PCs are based predominately on the Windows operating system and use Intel
and AMD processors.

Commercial PCs.Commercial PCs are optimized for commercial uses, including enterprise and small-and medium- sized business ("SMB")
customers, and
for connectivity and manageability in networked environments. Commercial PCs include HP Compaq, HP Pro and HP Elite lines of business desktops and notebooks, as well as the All in One TouchSmart and
Omni PCs, HP Mini-Note PCs, HP Blade PCs, Retail POS systems and HP TwinClients.

Consumer PCs.Consumer PCs include the HP and Compaq series of multi-media consumer desktops, notebooks and mini notebooks, including
the TouchSmart
line of touch-enabled all-in-one desktops and notebooks.

Workstations.Workstations are individual computing products designed for users demanding enhanced performance, such as computer
animation,
engineering design and other programs requiring
high-resolution graphics. PSG provides workstations that run on both Windows® and Linux-based operating systems.

Handheld Computing.PSG provides a series of HP iPAQ Pocket PC handheld computing devices that run on Windows Mobile® software.
These
products range from basic PDAs to advanced "smartphone" devices with voice and data capability.

Imaging and Printing Group

IPG provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, printing supplies, printing media and scanning devices. IPG is also focused on
imaging solutions in the commercial markets. These solutions range from managed print services solutions to addressing new growth opportunities in commercial printing and capturing
high-value pages in areas such as industrial applications, outdoor signage, and the graphic arts business.









Inkjet and Web Solutions.Inkjet and web solutions include HP's consumer and SMB inkjet solutions (hardware, supplies, and media) and HP's
retail and web businesses. These solutions include single function and all-in-one inkjet printers targeted toward consumers and SMBs as well as retail publishing solutions,
Snapfish, and Logoworks.

LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions.LaserJet and enterprise solutions include LaserJet printers and supplies, multi-function printers
("MFDs"), scanners, and enterprise software solutions such as Exstream Software and Web Jetadmin.

Managed Enterprise Solutions.Managed enterprise solutions include managed print services products and solutions delivered to enterprise
customers partnering with third-party software providers to offer workflow solutions in the enterprise environment.

Graphics Solutions.Graphics solutions include large format printing (Designjet and Scitex), large format supplies, WebPress supplies,
Indigo printing, specialty printing systems and inkjet high-speed production solutions.

Printer Supplies.Printer supplies include LaserJet toner and inkjet printer cartridges, graphic solutions ink products and other
printing-related media.

HP Financial Services

HPFS supports and enhances HP's global product and service solutions, providing a broad range of value-added financial life cycle
management services. HPFS enables our worldwide customers to acquire complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services. The group offers leasing, financing, utility programs and asset
recovery services, as well as financial asset management services for large global and enterprise customers. HPFS also provides an array of specialized financial services to SMBs and educational and
governmental entities. HPFS offers innovative, customized and flexible alternatives to balance unique customer cash flow, technology obsolescence and capacity needs.

Corporate Investments

Corporate Investments includes Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, also known as HP Labs, network infrastructure products, mobile devices
associated with the Palm acquisition, and certain business incubation projects. Revenue in this segment is attributable to the sale of certain network infrastructure products, including Ethernet
switch products that enhance computing and enterprise solutions under the ProCurve, 3Com and TippingPoint brands. The segment also includes certain video collaboration products sold under the brand
"Halo," and Palm smartphones, which are targeted at the consumer segment and include the Pixi and Pre models running on the WebOS operating system. Corporate Investments also derives revenue from
licensing specific HP technology to third parties.

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

We manage our business and report our financial results based on the principal business segments described above. Our customers are
organized by consumer and
commercial customer groups, and distribution is organized by direct and channel. Within the channel, we have various types of partners that we utilize for various customer groups. The partners
include:

•retailers that sell our products to the public through their own physical or Internet stores;•resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted
customer groups;•distribution partners that supply our solutions to smaller resellers with which we do not have direct relationships;









•independent distributors that sell our products into geographies or customer segments in which we have little or no
presence;•original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products with their own hardware or software and sell the
integrated products;•independent software vendors ("ISVs") that provide their clients with specialized software products, and often assist us
in selling our products and services to clients purchasing their products;•systems integrators that provide various levels and kinds of expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions
and often partner with our services business to extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and•advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and
that typically partner with our services business on client solutions that require our unique products and services.

The
mix of HP's business by channel or direct sales differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions
necessitate sales, marketing and distribution to be tailored accordingly. HP is focused on driving the depth and breadth of its coverage in addition to efficiencies and productivity gains in both the
direct and indirect business.

The
HP Enterprise Business manages most of our enterprise and public sector customer relationships and also has primary responsibility for simplifying sales processes across our segments
to improve speed and effectiveness of customer delivery. In this capacity, the HP Enterprise Business manages our direct sales for value products including UNIX®, enterprise storage and
software and pre-sales technical consultants, as well as our direct distribution activities for commercial products and go-to-market activities with systems
integrators and ISVs. The HP Enterprise Business also drives HP horizontal and vertical solutions through our own services arm and through the partners previously listed above. The HP Enterprise
Business drives HP's vertical sales and marketing approach in the communication, media and entertainment, financial services, manufacturing and distribution and public sector industries.

PSG
manages SMB customer relationships and commercial reseller channels, due largely to the significant volume of commercial PCs that HP sells through these channels. In addition to
commercial channel relationships, the Volume Direct organization, which is charged with the management of direct sales for volume products, is hosted within PSG. In addition, PSG manages direct online
sales through the Consumer Exchange and the Small Business Exchange.

IPG
manages HP's overall consumer-related sales and marketing activities, including our annual consumer product launch for the back-to-school and holiday seasons.
IPG also manages consumer channel relationships with third-party retail locations for imaging and printing products, as well as other consumer products, including consumer PCs, which provides for a
bundled sale opportunity between PCs and IPG products.

Manufacturing and Materials

We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers ("OMs") around the world to manufacture HP-designed products.
The use of OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain and
manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs manufacture products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. In addition to our use of OMs, we currently manufacture a limited
number of finished products from components and sub-assemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors.









We
utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We employ building products to order capabilities to
maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Configuring products to order permits configuration of units to the particular hardware and
software customization requirements of customers. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory
holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing immediately prior to the sale or distribution of products to our customers.

We
purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources
are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies and parts for products with short life cycles (although some of these sources have operations in
multiple locations in the event of a disruption). We are dependent upon Intel as a supplier of processors and Microsoft for various software products. However, we believe that disruptions with these
suppliers would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. For processors, we also have a relationship
with AMD, and we have continued to see solid acceptance of AMD processors in the market during fiscal 2010.

Like
other participants in the high technology industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our
requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we experience significant price volatility and supply constraints for certain components that are not available from
multiple sources. Frequently, we are able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on gross margin but does not disrupt production. We also
acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. See
"Risk Factors—We
depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

International

Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis
for both consumer and enterprise customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, allows us to drive economies of scale, provides
revenue streams to offset geographic economic trends and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. In addition, we believe that future growth is dependent in part on our
ability to develop products and sales models that target developing countries. In this regard, we believe that our broad geographic presence gives us a solid base upon which to build such future
growth.

A
summary of our domestic and international net revenue and net property, plant and equipment is set forth in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8,
which is incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 65% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2010 came from outside the United States. The substantial majority of our net revenue originating
outside the United States was from customers other than foreign governments.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to HP's foreign operations, see "Risk Factors—Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other
factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition," in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk" in Item 7A and Note 10
to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference.









Research and Development

We remain committed to innovation as a key element of HP's culture. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing
products, services and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also
are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and
maximize our customers' experiences.

HP
Labs, together with the various research and development groups within the five principal business segments, are responsible for our research and development efforts. HP Labs is part
of our Corporate Investments segment.

Expenditures
for research and development were $3.0 billion in fiscal 2010, $2.8 billion in fiscal 2009 and $3.5 billion in fiscal 2008. We anticipate that we will
continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to provide a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our
competitive position.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see "Risk Factors—If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and
services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Patents

Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements likely to be incorporated into our products
and services or where proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At October 31, 2010, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 37,000 patents, which represents an increase
over the number of patents in our patent portfolio at the end of both fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008.

Patents
generally have a term of twenty years from the time they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms on the individual patents vary. We
believe that our patents and applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties, and
maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to us as a whole or any of our principal business segments.

In
addition to developing our patents, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses under
patents owned by us when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "Risk Factors—Our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or
enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein
by reference.

Backlog

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects due to the diversity of our products and services
portfolio, including the large volume of products delivered from shelf or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not
material to an understanding of our overall business.









Seasonality

General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our
products experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales often are weaker
in the summer months and consumer sales often are stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of
seasonal trends. See "Risk Factors—Our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable," in Item 1A, which is
incorporated herein by reference.

Competition

We encounter aggressive competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete primarily on the basis of technology,
performance, price, quality, reliability, brand,
reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security and availability of application software
and our Internet infrastructure offerings.

The
markets for each of our business segments are characterized by vigorous competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and
rapidly growing firms. Product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete
effectively on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products
under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will continue to be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to
continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive.

On
a revenue basis we are the largest company offering our range of general purpose computers and personal information, imaging and printing products for industrial, scientific, business
and consumer applications, and IT services. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our principal business segments.

The
competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below:

Enterprise Storage and Servers.The areas in which ESS operates are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid and ongoing
technological
innovation and price reductions. Our competitors range from broad solution providers such as International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") to more focused competitors such as EMC Corporation and
NetApp, Inc. in storage and Dell, Inc. in industry standard servers. We believe that our important competitive advantages in this segment include the six technology components of our
converged infrastructure initiatives: IT systems, power and cooling, security, management, virtualization and automation. We believe that our competitive advantages also include our global reach and
our significant intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, which will contribute to further enhancements of our product and service offerings and our ability to
cross-sell our portfolio and leverage scale advantages in everything from brand to procurement leverage.







Services.

HP Software.The areas in which HP Software operates are fueled by rapidly changing customer requirements and technologies. We market
enterprise IT
management software in competition with IBM, CA, Inc. ("CAI"), BMC Software, Inc. and others. Our information management and business intelligence solutions compete with products from companies
like Symantec Corporation, IBM, EMC, CAI, and Teradata Corporation. We also deliver communications and media solutions that compete with products from IBM and various other competitors. As new
delivery mechanisms such as software-as-a-service come on the scene, we are also confronting less traditional competitors. Our differentiation lies in the breadth
and depth of our software and services portfolio and the scope of our market coverage.

Personal Systems Group.The areas in which PSG operates are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid price reductions and
inventory
depreciation. Our primary competitors for the branded personal computers are Dell, Acer Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Apple Inc., Lenovo Group Limited and Toshiba Corporation. In
particular regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white box" manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our
innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support offerings
and the availability of our broad-based distribution of products from retail and commercial channels to direct sales.

Imaging and Printing Group.The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive, especially with respect to
pricing and
the introduction of new products and features. IPG's key competitors include Canon U.S.A., Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation, Seiko Epson Corporation, Samsung
Electronics Co., Ltd. and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer refill and remanufactured alternatives for our supplies which, although generally
offering lower print quality and reliability, may be offered at lower prices and put pressure on our supplies sales and margins. Other companies also have developed and marketed new compatible
cartridges for HP's laser and inkjet products, particularly in jurisdictions outside of the United States where adequate intellectual property protection may not exist. In recent years, we and our
competitors have regularly lowered prices on printer hardware both to reach new customers and in response to the competitive environment. Important areas for future growth include printer-based
multi-function devices in the office space, digital presses in our imaging and graphics space and driving color printing expansion in the office. We believe we will continue to provide important new
contributions in the home, the office and publishing environments by providing comprehensive solutions.









HP Financial Services.In our financing business, our competitors are captive financing companies, mainly IBM Global Financing, as well
as banks and
financial institutions. We believe our competitive advantage in this business over banks and financial institutions is our ability to finance products, services and total solutions.

For
a discussion of risks attendant to these competitive factors, see "Risk Factors—The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects," in
Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Environment

Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including
laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial
costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws.

Many
of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws regulating the manufacture
and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. Some of our products also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements
applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical
and materials composition of our products, their safe use, and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. We also are subject to legislation in an increasing number of
jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered
products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). In the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, they could be restricted from entering
certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, including fines.

Our
operations and ultimately our products are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations and international treaties relating to
climate change. As these laws, regulations and treaties and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market
access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we
are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that HP technology can be used address climate change and to facilitate compliance with these related laws,
regulations and treaties.

We
are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of
our business. We meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services.

The
liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when HP considers it probable and can reasonably estimate the costs. Environmental costs and accruals
are presently not material to our operations or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a
material adverse effect on HP's operations or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.









Executive Officers:

Léo Apotheker; age 57; President and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Apotheker has served as President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Board of Directors since November 2010.
Previously, Mr. Apotheker served as Chief Executive Officer of SAP AG, a software company, from June 2009 until February 2010 after having served as co-Chief Executive
Officer of SAP from April 2008 to May 2009. Prior to that, Mr. Apotheker served as worldwide Chairman of Customer Solutions and Operations for SAP from 2002 until April 2008.

Peter J. Bocian; age 56; Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer

Mr. Bocian has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since December 2008. Previously,
Mr. Bocian served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer of Starbucks Corporation, a roaster and retailer of specialty coffee, from October 2007
until November 2008 after having served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer designate of Starbucks since May 2007. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Bocian served in various
positions at NCR Corporation since 1983, most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from September 2004 until May 2007.

R. Todd Bradley; age 52; Executive Vice President, Personal Systems Group

Mr. Bradley has served as Executive Vice President of HP's Personal Systems Group since June 2005.

Michael J. Holston; age 48; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Mr. Holston has served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel since February 2007 and as Secretary since March 2007.
Prior to that, he was a partner in the litigation practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, where, among other clients, he supported HP as external counsel on a variety of litigation and
regulatory matters for more than ten years.

Vyomesh I. Joshi; age 56; Executive Vice President, Imaging and Printing Group

Mr. Joshi has served as Executive Vice President of HP's Imaging and Printing Group since 2002. Mr. Joshi also is a
director of Yahoo! Inc.

Catherine A. Lesjak; age 51; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Lesjak has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2007. Ms. Lesjak served as
HP's interim Chief Executive Officer from August 2010 until November 2010. Previously, she served as Senior Vice President from 2003 until December 2006 and as Treasurer from 2003 until March 2007.

Ann M. Livermore; age 52; Executive Vice President, HP Enterprise Business

Ms. Livermore has served as Executive Vice President of the HP Enterprise Business since May 2004. Ms. Livermore also is
a director of United Parcel Service, Inc.

John N. McMullen; age 52; Senior Vice President and Treasurer

Mr. McMullen has served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer since March 2007. Previously, he served as Vice President of
Finance for HP's Imaging and Printing Group from May 2002 until 2007.









Randall D. Mott; age 54; Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer

Mr. Mott has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer since July 2005.

James T. Murrin; age 50; Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer

Mr. Murrin has served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer since March 2007. Previously, he
served as Vice President of Finance for the former Technology Solutions Group since 2004.

Marcela Perez de Alonso; age 56; Executive Vice President, Human Resources

Ms. Perez de Alonso has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources since January 2004. In December 2010, we announced
that Ms. Perez de Alonso will retire from HP following the hiring of her successor.

Shane V. Robison; age 57; Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy and Technology Officer

Mr. Robison has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy and Technology Officer since May 2002.

Employees

We had approximately 324,600 employees worldwide as of October 31, 2010.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at
http://www.hp.com/investor/home, as soon as reasonably practicable after HP electronically files such reports with, or furnishes those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. HP's
Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee) and code
of ethics entitled "Standards of Business Conduct" also are available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from:

Hewlett-Packard
CompanyAttention: Investor Relations3000 Hanover StreetPalo Alto, CA 94304(866) GET-HPQ1 or (866) 438-4771http://www.hp.com/investor/informationrequest

Additional Information

Microsoft®, Windows® and Windows Mobile® are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the
United States and/or other jurisdictions. Intel®, Itanium® and Intel Itanium® are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and/or other jurisdictions.
UNIX is a registered trademark of The Open Group.

