Item 1.Business

Overview

Symantec Corporation protects
the world’s information and is a global leader in security, backup and availability solutions. Our market leading products and services protect people and information in any environment – from the smallest mobile device, to the enterprise
data center, to cloud-based systems. Founded in April 1982, Symantec operates one of the largest global threat-intelligence networks, and provides leading security, backup and availability solutions. The company has more than 20,000 employees in
more than 50 countries. Our Internet home page is www.symantec.com. Other than the information expressly set forth in this annual report, the information contained or referred to on our website is not part of this annual report.

Strategy

The recent transformation of
business and consumer technologies has driven pervasive mobility and an explosion of data resulting in the need for a new approach to protecting devices, applications, data and users. Further, the emergence of the Internet of Things, where new
devices and everyday objects are becoming networked and connected to the Internet for the first time, highlights the need for comprehensive information security and management solutions to protect valuable data. We believe that the market for
security and management solutions will benefit from these trends. As a platform-independent software company without bias to any individual operating system or hardware environment, Symantec helps customers manage more technologies with greater
efficiency and on a wide range of virtual and mobile platforms.

In January 2013, we announced our strategy to transition from being
device-centric or protecting endpoints and the data center, to having a broader focus of protecting and managing digital information. We track a vast number of threat indicators across the Internet and continuously collect new telemetry from
hundreds of millions of mobile devices, endpoints, and servers across the globe. This massive amount of security data, combined with our years of experience analyzing such data allows us to provide advanced intelligence and protection for all of our
customers.

During fiscal year 2014, we implemented changes in three areas: simplifying our organizational structure; redesigning our
Go-To-Market (“GTM”) strategy, and changing our product offerings.

Simplifying our Organizational Structure

We aligned our organization by functional areas, rather than by market segments in order to reduce complexity, remove redundancies, increase
the speed of decision making, and improve accountability and execution. We reduced the number of management layers from our previous structure and increased the average span of control for managers.

Redesigning our Go-To-Market Strategy

We split our direct field sales team into security and information management specialists focused on new business only and expanded their
territories to be more effective for our enterprise customers. We also built a renewals group in order to extend the customer relationship and make it easier to renew and do business with us. We redesigned our global channel strategy focused on
building partner competency, rewarding performance, and customer satisfaction.







Changing our Product Offerings

With a portfolio of leading products, we focused our development efforts on making our point solutions better, designing new integrated
solutions, and expanding our offerings by partnering with network security vendors to offer solutions that provide multi-tier protection.

Business
Highlights

During fiscal 2014, we took the following actions in support of our business:



•We released new solutions. Storage Foundation includes a disruptive new capability that abstracts in-server memory, allowing the sharing of flash storage across servers without the need for expensive storage hardware.
We offer a vendor-agnostic solution providing these benefits so customers can run any storage configuration while managing performance and redundancy entirely through software. NetBackup is designed for enterprise level scale, which can accommodate
hundreds of thousands of virtual machines and petabytes of data while giving customers faster recovery capabilities. As IT organizations move to software-defined data centers, they can now simplify and automate the protection of massive and complex
physical, virtual, and cloud environments which are the building blocks of a modern data center. Mobile App Center is an important enhancement to our integrated mobile workforce productivity solution and includes our Sealed program which delivers
enterprise-class security and control for both internally-developed and third- party apps on both iOS and Android operating systems. Our new Disarm technology uses a technique to protect companies from targeted attacks and is included in our
messaging offering. Norton solutions include new advanced repair capabilities, compatibility with the new features of Windows 8.1, and protect against new and evolving threats.



•We entered into key partnerships. We are working with Cisco to integrate technology into their Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) architecture and extend into the infrastructure automation space. We continue to
work with several customers to integrate next-generation firewalls with Symantec Endpoint Protection using our Managed Security Service. This initiative will seek to provide a new set of enhanced advanced threat detection capabilities that will
enable our customers to automatically prioritize and provide comprehensive contextual intelligence for incidents based on correlation between network-based advanced threat detection, endpoint security, and Symantec’s Global Intelligence
Network.



•We enhanced our eBusiness platform into a digital experience that enables existing and potential customers to discover, purchase, and receive product help online with real-time customer care. This improves our ability
to reach and acquire a new set of customers by expanding our payment options, expanding our eBusiness platform on a global basis, and advancing our search capabilities.



•We attracted new technology executives, who bring valuable skills in holistic information protection product design, integrated IT implementation, cloud infrastructure, eCommerce, global operations, and customer
experience.



•We implemented a capital allocation strategy pursuant to which we expect to return over time approximately 50% of free cash flow to stockholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases, while still
enabling our company to invest in its future. As part of this program we initiated a quarterly cash dividend, targeting a yield of approximately 2.5% based on our closing stock price on May 1, 2013. On May 2, 2013, our board of directors
approved a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share of common stock, the first dividend in Symantec’s history.



•Our board of directors approved an additional $1.0 billion stock repurchase program. This program does not have an expiration date. As of March 28, 2014, we repurchased 21 million shares of our common stock
for an aggregate amount of $500 million and $658 million remained authorized for future repurchases.







Operating Segments and Products

Our current operating segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services distinguished by customer needs. In the
first quarter of fiscal 2014, we modified our segment reporting structure to more readily match the new operating structure. The three operating segments are: User Productivity & Protection, Information Security, and Information
Management.

User Productivity & Protection

Symantec’s User Productivity & Protection segment focuses on making it simple for customers to be productive and protected at
home and at work. These products include our Norton solutions, endpoint security and management, encryption, and mobile offerings.

Our
Norton products help customers protect against increasingly complex threats and address the need for identity protection, while also managing the rapid increase in mobile and digital data, such as personal financial records, photos, music, and
videos. Our endpoint security and management offerings support the evolving endpoint, providing advanced threat protection while helping reduce cost and complexity. Our mobile solutions help organizations secure corporate data while gaining
visibility into and control of all mobile platforms and enforcing security policies.

Information Security

Symantec’s Information Security segment protects organizations so they can securely conduct business while leveraging new platforms and
data. These products include Secure Socket Layer (“SSL”) Certificates, authentication, mail and web security, data center security, data loss prevention, and information security services offerings.

These products and services help our customers ensure their confidential information is secure wherever it resides in the network path, from
the user’s device to the data’s resting place. In doing so, these products protect customer data from sophisticated threats such as advanced protection threats, malicious spam and phishing attacks, malware, drive-by website
infections, hackers, and cyber criminals. In addition, these products help to prevent the loss of confidential data by insiders, and help customers achieve compliance with laws and regulations. These solutions are delivered through various
methods, such as software, appliance, SaaS, and managed services.

Information Management

Symantec’s Information Management segment focuses on backup and recovery, archiving and eDiscovery, storage and high availability
solutions, helping to ensure that our customers’ IT infrastructure and mission-critical applications are protected, managed and available.

Our products enable customers to reduce cost and complexity as we improve the way information is managed through the ever-evolving cloud and
virtualized environments. Our products are designed to ensure successful backup, recovery, availability, eDiscovery and archiving of information, applications, and systems for organizations ranging from small business to large enterprise.

Financial Information by Segment and Geographic Region

For information regarding our revenue by segment, revenue by geographical area, and property and equipment by geographical area, see Note 10
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. For information regarding the amount and percentage of our revenue contributed by each of our segments and our financial information, including information about geographic
areas in which we operate, see Item 7,







Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsand Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. For
information regarding risks associated with our international operations, see Item 1A,Risk Factors.

Sales and Go-To-Market Strategy

In fiscal year 2014, we made changes to our GTM strategy, reorganizing our direct sales force into specialist areas of security and
information management focused on selling new business. Concurrently, we created a dedicated renewals team that is focused on extending customer relationships and renewing our contracts. We also streamlined our indirect sales strategy to have fewer,
more focused partners with specialized partner programs to enhance sales. We believe these changes provide customers with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience, while also enabling us to expand our business.

Our GTM network includes a direct sales force, broad eCommerce capabilities, and indirect sales resources that support our global partner
ecosystem. We also maintain important relationships with a number of Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”), Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”), and retail and online stores by which we market and sell our products.

We also made changes to our GTM marketing structure. We created a new Brand, Digital and Advertising team, focused on three GTM areas so that
we can effectively market our different products and services distinguished by customer needs. Our three GTM focus areas are as follows: Consumer and Small Business, Commercial, and Enterprise.

Our Brand, Digital and Advertising team develops marketing activation plans to increase awareness, engagement, consideration, purchase,
retention, and advocacy for our brands. Our Brand efforts include digital marketing, social media, paid advertising (i.e. search, print, digital), search engine optimization, brand partnerships, CRM, video and other content production, and other
forms of demand generation and retention marketing. We also invest in cooperative marketing campaigns with distributors, resellers, retailers, OEMs, and industry partners.

Consumer and Small Business

We sell our consumer products and services to individuals, households and small businesses globally. We bring these products to market through
our eCommerce platform, distributors, direct marketers, Internet-based resellers, system builders, ISPs, wireless carriers, and retailers worldwide. We also have partnerships with OEMs globally to distribute our Internet security suites and our
online backup offerings.

Commercial

We sell and market our products and related services to small, medium and large enterprise customers through field sales and inside sales
leveraging indirect sales partners around the world who are specifically trained and certified to sell our solutions. These partners include national solution providers, regional solution providers, national account resellers,
global/federal system integrators and managed service providers. Our products are also available on our eCommerce platform, as well as through authorized distributors and OEMs who incorporate our technologies into their products, bundle our products
with their offerings, or serve as authorized resellers of our products.

Enterprise

We sell and market our products and related services to the largest of enterprise organizations, including government and public sector
customers, through our field sales force. This field sales team is responsible for approximately 2,000 named accounts around the world, leveraging our global partner ecosystem primarily targeting senior executives and IT department personnel
responsible for managing a company’s highest-order IT initiatives.







Research and Development

Symantec embraces a global research and development (“R&D”) strategy to drive organic innovation. Engineers and researchers
throughout the Company pursue advanced projects to translate R&D into customer solutions by creating new technologies and integrating our unique set of technology assets. Symantec focuses on short, medium, and long-term applied research,
develops new products in emerging areas, participates in government-funded research projects, drives industry standards, and partners with universities to conduct research supporting Symantec’s strategy.

Symantec’s Security Technology and Response organization is a global team of security engineers, threat analysts, and researchers that
provides the underlying functionality, content, and support for many of our consumer, small business and enterprise security products. Our security experts monitor malicious code reports collected through the Global Intelligence Network to provide
insight into emerging attacks, malicious code activity, phishing, spam, and other threats. The team uses this vast amount of data and insights to develop new technologies and approaches, such as Symantec’s reputation-based security technology,
to protect customer information.

Research and development expenses, exclusive of in-process research and development associated with
acquisitions, were $1,038 million, $1,012 million, and $969 million in fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively, representing approximately 16% of revenue in fiscal 2014 and 15% and 14% of revenue in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. We
believe that technical leadership is essential to our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to R&D.

Support

Symantec has support facilities throughout the world, staffed by technical product experts knowledgeable in the operating environments in
which our products are deployed. Our technical support experts assist customers with issue resolution and threat detection.

We provide
consumers with various levels of support offerings. Consumers that subscribe to LiveUpdate receive automatic downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug fixes, and patches for most of our consumer products. Our standard consumer
support program provides self-help online services and phone, chat, and email support to consumers worldwide. Our Norton One membership features elite-level support, which includes an under two-minute wait time for phone calls, an instant call back
feature, and virus protection assurance.

We provide customers various levels of enterprise support offerings. Our enterprise security
support program offers annual maintenance support contracts, including content, upgrades, and technical support. Our standard technical support includes: self-service options delivered by telephone or electronically during the contracted-for hours,
immediate patches for severe problems, periodic software updates, and access to our technical knowledge base and frequently asked questions.

Customers

In fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, there were no customers that accounted for more than 10% of our total net revenue.

Acquisitions

Our strategy will be
complemented by business combinations that fit strategically and meet specific profitability hurdles. Our acquisitions are designed to enhance the features and functionality of our existing products and extend our product leadership in core markets.
We consider time-to-market, synergies with existing products, and potential market share gains when evaluating the economics of acquisitions of technologies, product lines, or companies. We may acquire or dispose of other technologies, products, and
companies in the future.







We did not make any material acquisitions during fiscal 2014.

Competition

Our markets are
consolidating, highly competitive, and subject to rapid changes in technology. The competitive landscape has changed significantly over the past few years, with new competition arising. Much of the market growth has come from startups whose focus is
on solving a specific customer issue or delivering a specific niche-oriented product and from larger integration providers that increasingly are looking to put various types of protection, whether it is backup, high availability or security, into
their platforms. We are focused on delivering comprehensive customer solutions, integrating across our broad product portfolio and partnering with other technology providers to differentiate ourselves from the competition. We believe that the
principal competitive factors necessary to be successful in our industry include product quality and effectiveness, time-to-market, price, reputation, financial stability, breadth of product offerings, customer support, brand recognition, and
effective sales and marketing efforts.

In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors, we face indirect or potential
competition from retailers, application providers, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs who may provide various solutions and functions in their current and future products. We also compete for access to retail
distribution channels and for spending at the retail level and in corporate accounts. In addition, we compete with other software companies, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs to acquire technologies,
products, or companies and to publish software developed by third parties. We also compete with other software companies in our effort to place our products on the computer equipment sold to consumers and enterprises by OEMs.

The competitive environments for our security and management products are described below.

Security

Most of
the channels in which our security products are offered are highly competitive. Some of our consumer competitors are intensely focused on customer acquisition, which has led competitors to offer their technology for free, engage in aggressive
marketing, or enter into competitive partnerships. Our primary security competitors are McAfee, Inc., owned by Intel Corporation, Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”), and Trend Micro Inc. There are also several freeware providers and
regional security companies that we compete against. For our consumer backup offerings, our primary competitors are Carbonite, Inc. and Mozy, Inc., owned by EMC Corporation (“EMC”). In the authentication services market, our primary
competitors are Comodo Group, Inc., RSA, the security division of EMC, Entrust, Inc., and GoDaddy.com, Inc. In the Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) security market, our primary competitors are Google Inc.’s Postini Services and
Microsoft. Our primary competitors in the managed services business are SecureWorks, Inc., owned by Dell, Inc., and Verizon Communications, Inc.

Information Management

The markets for storage management, backup, archiving, and eDiscovery are intensely competitive. Our primary competitors are CommVault
Systems, Inc., EMC, Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM, Oracle, and Veeam Software.

Intellectual Property

Protective Measures

We regard some of the features of our internal operations, software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on copyright, patent, trademark
and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other measures to protect our proprietary information. Our intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that enables us to gain recognition for our
products, services, and technology and enhance our competitive position.







As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with
our employees, distributors, and corporate partners and we enter into license agreements with respect to our software, documentation, and other proprietary information. These license agreements are generally non-transferable and have either a
perpetual or subscription based time limited term. We also educate our employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to protect our facilities, equipment, and networks.

Trademarks, Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses

Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to Symantec and the
Symantec logo, we have used, registered, or applied to register other specific trademarks and service marks to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign countries and
jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to maintain our
trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use.

We have more than 2,200 patents, in
addition to foreign patents and pending U.S. and foreign patent applications, which relate to various aspects of our products and technology. The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the country of issuance and for the U.S. is
typically 17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or 20 years from the date of filing of the patent application resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products.

Our products are protected under U.S. and international copyright laws and laws related to the protection of intellectual property and
proprietary information. We take measures to label such products with the appropriate proprietary rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide sufficient protection, and our
intellectual property rights may be challenged. In addition, we license some intellectual property from third parties for use in our products, and generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed intellectual property rights. While we
believe that our ability to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is important to our success, we also believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent, trademark, license, or other
intellectual property right.

Seasonality

As is typical for many large software companies, our business is seasonal. Software license and maintenance orders are generally higher in our
third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our first and second fiscal quarters. A decline in license and maintenance orders is typical in the first quarter of our fiscal year as compared to license and maintenance orders in the fourth quarter of
the prior fiscal year. In addition, we generally receive a higher volume of software license and maintenance orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders concentrated in the latter part of that month. We believe that this seasonality primarily
reflects customer spending patterns and budget cycles, as well as the impact of compensation incentive plans for our sales personnel. Revenue generally reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a lesser extent than orders because revenue is not
recognized until an order is shipped or services are performed and other revenue recognition criteria are met, and because a significant portion of our in-period revenue comes from our deferred revenue balance.

Employees

As of March 28, 2014, we
employed more than 20,800 people worldwide, approximately 44% of whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 6,600 employees work in sales and marketing, 7,000 in research and development, 5,400 in support and services, and 1,800 in
management, manufacturing, and administration.







Available Information

Our Internet address iswww.symantec.com.We make available free of charge our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on our investor relations
website located at www.symantec.com/invest. The information contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
other information regarding our filings athttp://www.sec.gov

