Item 1.Business

Overview

Symantec is a global provider of security, storage, and systems management solutions that help
organizations and consumers secure and manage their information-driven world. Our software and services protect against advanced threats enabling confidence wherever information is used or stored.

Founded in 1982, Symantec has operations in over 50 countries and our principal executive offices are located at 350
Ellis Street, Mountain View, California, 94043. Our telephone number at that location is (650) 527-8000. Our Internet home page iswww.symantec.com.Other than the information expressly set forth in this annual report, the information
contained or referred to on our website is not part of this annual report.

Strategy

Symantec is committed to protecting people and information, independent of device, platform or location. We deliver
solutions that allow customers to access information via a variety of devices when they need it and make it available only to those who should have access to it. Our objective is to continue growing our core businesses, which are further described
below, while driving growth from our emerging businesses and delivering innovative new solutions to stay at the forefront of long-term trend opportunities. Our strategy for success includes delivering solutions that meet the needs of customers from
consumers to the largest enterprises, and across all geographies. We leverage our technology across multiple delivery models, including cloud, or Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), fully-integrated appliances, managed services, and
traditional on-premise software to strengthen and differentiate our core businesses as well as drive growth in our emerging opportunities.

Symantec’s core businesses operate in three primary markets: security, backup and recovery, and storage management.



•Security.Protecting important information has become increasingly difficult as the sophistication and determination of attackers continues
to grow. We develop and deliver essential protection for consumer and enterprise customers so that they can protect information wherever it resides, whether in servers, computers, mobile devices, or in the cloud. We will continue to focus on leading
innovation and research as we seek to keep us ahead of the rapidly changing threat environment in order to keep our customers’ information safe.



•Back-up and Recovery.Effective backup, recovery, and eDiscovery continue to be high priorities as organizations seek to better manage
information growth and maximize operational efficiency in both physical and virtual environments. For enterprise customers we have simplified the purchase and deployment process by combining our leading backup, recovery, and deduplication
technologies in either integrated backup appliances or on-premise software solutions, effective in both virtual and physical environments. Consumers are also creating unprecedented amounts of digital information that they want to protect. We offer
consumers cloud-based backup.



•Storage Management.Enterprises are increasingly under pressure to reduce costs by optimizing storage utilization and accelerating cloud and
virtualization adoption. In the datacenter, we provide hardware agnostic storage management and high-availability solutions to manage a heterogeneous storage infrastructure and run mission critical applications with confidence in both physical and
virtual environments.

We are also strategically investing in emerging businesses which grow
faster than our core businesses. These include: data loss prevention, managed security services, user authentication, backup appliances, eDiscovery, cloud-based backup, consumer services, and business critical services. Businesses are increasingly







adopting cloud, virtualization, and mobile technologies to reduce the cost of their IT infrastructures and enhance access to their information. Our broad portfolio of capabilities positions us to
also capitalize on our key growth initiatives in cloud, virtualization and mobile technologies.



•Cloud-based computing services:We have a broad portfolio of cloud-delivered solutions, from SaaS security to online backup and archiving.
For customers adopting public and private cloud-based solutions, we offer a protection platform that ensures information remains secure.



•Virtualization capabilities:Our leading backup, security, and storage management solutions can be deployed in both physical and virtual
environments. Through a single management console, customers can secure, manage, and backup their virtual environments from the datacenter to the endpoint.



•Mobility solutions:Our enterprise mobility solutions extend corporate security policies to personally owned devices, allowing employees to
bring their own device to work without compromising information security. Our consumer solutions deliver unique services for smart phones and tablets, combining anti-theft features with powerful anti-malware to protect users’ important data
from loss, theft, viruses, and other threats.

Business Developments and Highlights

During fiscal 2012, we took the following actions in support of our business strategy:



•We released new solutions for mobile management to extend native controls to activate, secure, and manage Apple iOS devices. We shipped data loss
prevention (“DLP”) for Tablets to extend DLP software to new mobile endpoints. We delivered nine new mobile solutions for consumers to protect information against top of mind concerns such as anti-theft, identity protection, and safe web
searching for mobile devices.



•We released new solutions for the cloud such as O3 Cloud Identity and Access Control which leverages an enterprise’s existing identity
infrastructure to enable single sign-on across multiple web applications. We delivered a variety of SaaS offerings including cloud-based solutions for endpoint protection, backup, and archiving.



•We released new solutions for Small and Medium Businesses (“SMB”) including backup software featuring a simplified user interface designed
for the growing business and enterprise-class threat detection technologies with simple-to-use features and performance improvements.



•We released new solutions for the enterprise. NetBackup delivers backup, recovery, and deduplication software providing faster backup speeds,
Snapshot management, and simplified search and recovery functionality. We shipped a backup appliance that protects virtual and physical systems and is fully integrated with deduplication technology. Backup Exec is deployable in virtualized
environments. Endpoint protection secures against today’s sophisticated threats for both physical and virtual environments. We delivered storage management software allowing customers to use their existing infrastructure to build and manage
resilient private clouds that span multiple virtualization technologies, operating systems, and storage platforms. We jointly developed with VMware Application High Availability enabling organizations to virtualize their business critical
applications with service levels at or above traditional physical environments. Data Insight is software to track ownership and usage of unstructured data in large enterprise environments.



•We released new solutions for the consumer that allows customers to purchase and manage security for multiple devices and platforms all from a
single cloud-based console with the help of dedicated support advisors. We shipped comprehensive protection across multiple devices and platforms such as Android, Windows, and Macintosh. We delivered new versions of our Norton 360, Norton Internet
Security, and Norton AntiVirus, the industry’s leading security for Windows and Mac’s along with a new version of Norton Online Backup and a portfolio of mobile protection applications.







•We acquired the following companies: Clearwell Systems Inc. (“Clearwell”), a recognized leader in the eDiscovery market, to provide
customers with a comprehensive information management solution by bringing together eDiscovery, archiving and backup products. We extended our cloud portfolio with the acquisition of LiveOffice LLC (“LiveOffice”), a SaaS-based archiving
provider, to extend our information management solution to the cloud or as a hybrid solution. We also acquired a mobile device company that provides customers with a management foundation to enroll and manage necessary device settings across a broad
range of platforms.



•We sold our share of the Huawei Symantec joint venture to Huawei for $530 million. We exited the joint venture with a return on investment. We grew
our appliance business and increased our market penetration in China.



•We repurchased 51 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate amount of $893 million.

Operating Segments and Products

Our operating segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services, distinguished by customer needs. We have five operating segments: Consumer, Security and Compliance, Storage
and Server Management, Services, and Other.

Consumer

Our Consumer segment helps customers deal with increasingly complex threats, the proliferation of smart mobile devices,
the need for identity protection, and the rapid increase in digital consumer data, such as photos, music, and videos. For individual users and home offices, we offer premium, full-featured security suites and personalized membership offerings for
multiple platforms and devices, including PC’s, Macs, and Android-based phones and tablets, as well as related services such as online backup, family safety, and PC tune-up.

We continue to acquire customers through a diversified channel strategy. We retain and leverage our large customer base
through auto-renewal subscriptions, seek to up-sell customers from point products to multi-product suites, and cross-sell additional products and services. We also provide a variety of free tools and services that offer consumers added value and
provide an opportunity to develop ongoing communication.

Our award-winning Norton 2012 products include our
innovative reputation-based security, a technology that provides real-time threat detection. During fiscal 2012, we introduced multiple new mobile solutions, including Norton One, a premium membership service that allows consumers to buy and manage
their security software across a wide range of platforms and devices through a cloud-based management console and provides a personalized experience with premium support. Our primary consumer products include: Norton 360, Norton Internet Security,
Norton AntiVirus, Norton Online Backup, Norton Mobile Security, Norton Live Services, and our newly released Norton One and Norton 360 Everywhere.

Security and Compliance

Our Security and Compliance
solutions help organizations protect their information and systems. Our solutions not only provide the strongest protections but help organizations standardize, automate, and reduce the costs of day-to-day security activities. We offer security
solutions that integrate multiple layers of protection and simplify management. Our primary solutions in this segment address the following areas:

Threat and Risk Management

Our threat and risk management
solutions allow customers to develop and enforce IT policies, automate IT risk management processes, and demonstrate compliance with industry standards and regulations. Organizations are provided the visibility and security intelligence needed to
identify when they are under attack so that they can respond rapidly. In addition, our Managed Security Services extend our security expertise through a combination of fully managed onsite activities, on-call assistance and remote monitoring.
Products include: Security Incident Management (SIM), Managed Security Services and Control Compliance Suite.







Infrastructure Protection

We provide solutions that allow customers to secure their endpoints, messaging, and Web environments in addition to
defending critical servers, either physically or virtually. Our solutions include market leading technologies which leverage our global intelligence network making them some of the most effective and fastest performing solutions for identifying and
stopping the latest attacks. In addition, we keep systems safe by protecting their connections. Our enterprise authentication services enable organizations to protect assets by ensuring the true identity of a device, system, or application and using
Secure Socket Layer (“SSL”) to encrypt data in transit. Products include: Endpoint Protection for enterprise and small business, Protection Suites, Mail and Web Security, and Trust Services.

Information and Identity Protection

We help businesses proactively protect their information by taking a content-aware approach. This includes enabling businesses to identify the owners of specific information, locating sensitive data and
identifying those with access to it, and encrypting and preventing sensitive material from leaving an organization. In addition, we offer two-factor authentication and cloud-based single sign-on to better protect the identities of an
organization’s employees. Products include: Data Loss Prevention, Data Insight, Encryption, O3, Validation and Identity Protection, and Managed Public Key Infrastructure (“PKI”).

Mobility and Systems Management

Our mobile solutions help organizations embrace the “Bring Your Own Device” trend by allowing users to select their devices of choice while securing corporate data, gaining visibility and
control of all mobile platforms, and enforcing security policies. Systems management capabilities help IT organizations provide faster and more predictable service to their businesses. Our integrated solutions ensure that organizations are able to
easily support new technology changes, quickly adapt to changing processes and business needs, and provide the necessary insight to make more intelligent, data-driven decisions. Products include: Mobile Management, Device and Application Management,
and IT Management Suite.

Cloud-Delivered Security Services

Our SaaS offerings provide customers the flexibility to manage their business requirements using hosted services across a
wide range of our security and backup solutions. Services include: the Symantec.cloud portfolio and SSL Certificates.

Storage and Server Management

Our Storage and Server Management segment consists of information management and storage management solutions. We enable organizations to secure and manage the information-driven world by leveraging our
backup and recovery, archiving, eDiscovery, storage management, and high availability solutions. Our offerings enable companies to standardize on a single layer of infrastructure software, work on all major distributed operating systems, and support
storage devices, databases, and applications in both physical and virtual environments.

Intelligent Information Management

Our Intelligent Information Management business, which includes software, appliances and SaaS based
offerings, is driven by the rapid growth of information, data duplication, and virtual environments. We help SMB and enterprise organizations protect their information. With our solutions, customers can back up and deduplicate data closer to
information sources to reduce storage consumption. Our archive, eDiscovery, and intelligent information governance solutions allow organizations to bridge the gap between their business, legal, and IT groups, and reduce their risks and costs.
Products include: NetBackup, Backup Exec, Enterprise Vault, Enterprise Vault.cloud, and eDiscovery.







Storage Management and High Availability

Our Storage Management and High Availability business is driven by our customers’ need to maintain high service
levels and reduce overall storage costs through improved utilization of existing systems, virtualization, and cloud infrastructure offerings. Our products help customers simplify their datacenters by standardizing storage management across their
environment for more efficient and effective use of their existing storage investments. With our solutions, customers can build scalable, high-performance file-based storage systems onsite or in private or hybrid clouds utilizing commodity hardware.
They also enable enterprises to manage large storage environments and ensure the availability of critical applications across physical and virtual environments. Products include: Storage Foundation, Cluster Server, Operations Manager, ApplicationHA,
Data Insight, and VirtualStore.

Services

We deliver business critical, consulting and education services. Symantec Services help customers address information
security, availability, storage, and compliance challenges at the endpoint and in complex, multi-vendor datacenter environments.

Other

The Other segment includes sunset products
and unallocated general and administrative costs and is not considered an active business component of the Company.

Financial Information by Segment and Geographic Region

For information regarding our revenue by segment, revenue by geographical area, and property and equipment by geographical
area, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. For information regarding the amount and percentage of our revenue contributed by each of our segments and our financial information, including
information about geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7,Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsand Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this
annual report. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, see Item 1A, Risk Factors.

Sales and
Go-To-Market Strategy

Our go-to-market network includes a direct sales force, broad eCommerce
capabilities, and channel sales resources that support our ecosystem of partners worldwide. We also maintain important relationships with a number of Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”), Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”),
and retail and online stores by which we market and sell our products.

Consumer

We sell our consumer products and services to individuals and home offices globally through a network of distribution
partners and eCommerce channels. Our products are available to customers through our eCommerce platform, distributors, direct marketers, Internet-based resellers, system builders, ISPs, wireless carriers, and in retail locations worldwide. We have
partnerships with OEMs globally to distribute our Internet security suites and our online backup offerings.

Consumer sales through our electronic distribution channels, which include our eCommerce portal, OEMs, electronic
upgrades, and renewals, represented 86 percent of consumer revenue in fiscal 2012 while 14 percent of consumer sales came primarily from the retail channel.







Small and Medium Business

We sell and market our products and related services to small business customers through a partner channel consisting of
SMB Specialized Partners around the world, who are specifically trained and certified to sell our solutions. This group includes value-added resellers, large account resellers, and managed service providers across all levels of the Symantec partner
program. Our products, tailored specifically for the needs of small businesses with up to 250 employees, are also available on our eCommerce platform, as well as through authorized distributors and OEMs who incorporate our technologies into their
products, bundle our products with their offerings, or serve as authorized resellers of our products.

Enterprise

We sell and market our products and related services to enterprise customers through our direct sales
force of more than 4,500 sales employees and through a variety of indirect sales channels, which include value-added resellers, managed service providers, large account resellers, and system integrators. We also sell our products to businesses
around the world through authorized distributors and OEMs who incorporate our technologies into their products, bundle our products with their offerings, or serve as authorized resellers of our products. Our sales efforts are primarily targeted to
senior executives and IT department personnel responsible for managing a company’s IT initiatives.

Marketing and
Advertising

Our marketing expenditures relate primarily to advertising and promotion, including demand
generation and product recognition. Our advertising and promotion efforts include, among other things, electronic and print advertising, trade shows, collateral production, and all forms of direct marketing. We also invest in cooperative marketing
campaigns with distributors, resellers, retailers, OEMs, and industry partners.

We invest in various
retention marketing and customer loyalty programs to help drive renewals and encourage customer advocacy and referrals. We also provide focused vertical marketing programs in targeted industries and countries.

We typically offer two types of rebate programs within most countries: volume incentive rebates to channel partners and
promotional rebates to distributors and end users. Distributors and resellers earn volume incentive rebates primarily based upon the amount of product sales to end users. We also offer rebates to end users who purchase products through various
resale channels. Both volume incentive rebates and end-user rebates are accrued as an offset to revenue.

Research and Development

Symantec embraces a global research and development (“R&D”) strategy to drive organic
innovation. Engineers and researchers throughout the Company pursue advanced projects to translate R&D into customer solutions by creating new technologies and integrating our unique set of technology assets. Symantec focuses on short, medium,
and long-term applied research, develops new products in emerging areas, participates in government-funded research projects, drives industry standards, and partners with universities to conduct research supporting Symantec’s strategy.

Symantec’s Security Technology and Response organization is a global team of security engineers, threat
analysts, and researchers that provides the underlying functionality, content, and support for all enterprise, SMB, and consumer security products. Our security experts monitor malicious code reports collected through the Global Intelligence Network
to provide insight into emerging attacks, malicious code activity, phishing, spam, and other threats. The team uses this vast intelligence to develop new technologies and approaches, such as Symantec’s reputation-based security technology, to
protect customer information.







Research and development expenses, exclusive of in-process research and
development associated with acquisitions, were $969 million, $862 million and $857 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing approximately 14% of revenue in the respective periods. We believe that technical
leadership is essential to our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to research and development.

Support

Symantec has centralized support facilities throughout the world, staffed by technical product experts
knowledgeable in the operating environments in which our products are deployed. Our technical support experts assist customers with issue resolution and threat detection.

We provide consumers with various levels of support offerings. Consumers that subscribe to LiveUpdate receive automatic
downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug fixes, and patches for most of our consumer products. Our standard consumer support program provides self-help online services and phone, chat, and email support to consumers worldwide. Our
Norton One membership features elite-level support, which includes an under two-minute wait time for phone calls, an instant call back feature, and virus protection assurance.

We provide customers various levels of enterprise support offerings. Our enterprise security support program offers
annual maintenance support contracts, including content, upgrades, and technical support. Our standard technical support includes: self-service options delivered by telephone or electronically during the contracted-for hours, immediate patches for
severe problems, periodic software updates, and access to our technical knowledge base and frequently asked questions.

Customers

In fiscal 2012, there were no significant customers that accounted for more than 10% of our total net
revenue. In fiscal 2011 and 2010, one distributor, Ingram Micro accounted for 10% of our total net revenue in both periods. Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with its
subsidiaries, each of which cover different countries or regions. Each of these agreements is separately negotiated and is independent of any other contract (such as a master distribution agreement), and these agreements are not based on the same
form of contract.

Acquisitions

Our acquisitions are designed to enhance the features and functionality of our existing products and extend our product leadership in core markets. We consider time to market, synergies with existing
products, and potential market share gains when evaluating the economics of acquisitions of technologies, product lines, or companies. We may acquire or dispose of other technologies, products and companies in the future.

Among the acquisitions we completed during fiscal 2012 are:



Company NameCompany DescriptionDate AcquiredClearwellA nonpublic provider of eDiscovery solutions.June 24, 2011LiveOfficeA nonpublic provider of message hosting and integrated message and social media management applications.January 13, 2012

For further discussion of our acquisitions, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in this annual report.







Competition

Our markets are consolidating, highly competitive, and subject to rapid changes in technology. We are focused on integration across our broad product portfolio and are including next-generation technology
capabilities into our solution set to differentiate ourselves from the competition. We believe that the principal competitive factors necessary to be successful in our industry include product quality and effectiveness, time to market, price,
reputation, financial stability, breadth of product offerings, customer support, brand recognition, and effective sales and marketing efforts.

In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors, we face indirect or potential competition from retailers, application providers, operating system providers, network equipment
manufacturers, and other OEMs who may provide various solutions and functions in their current and future products. We also compete for access to retail distribution channels and for spending at the retail level and in corporate accounts. In
addition, we compete with other software companies, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers and other OEMs to acquire technologies, products, or companies and to publish software developed by third parties. We also compete with
other software companies in our effort to place our products on the computer equipment sold to consumers and enterprises by OEMs.

The competitive environments for each segment are described below.

Consumer

Some of the channels in which our consumer products are offered are highly competitive. Our competitors are intensely focused on customer acquisition, which has led competitors to offer their technology
for free, engage in aggressive marketing, or enter into competitive partnerships. Our primary competitors in the Consumer segment are McAfee, Inc., owned by Intel Corporation (“McAfee”) and Trend Micro Inc. (“Trend Micro”). There
are also several security companies and freeware providers that we compete against primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions. For our consumer backup offerings, our primary competitors are Carbonite, Inc. and Mozy, Inc., owned by EMC Corporation
(“EMC”).

Security and Compliance

In the security and management markets, we compete against many companies that offer competing products to our solutions.
Our primary competitors in the security and management market are McAfee, Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”), and Trend Micro. There are also several smaller regional security companies that we compete against primarily in the EMEA and
APJ regions. In the authentication services market, our primary competitors are Comodo Group, Inc., RSA, the security division of EMC, Entrust, Inc., and GoDaddy.com, Inc. In the SaaS security market, our primary competitors are Google Inc.’s
Postini Services and Microsoft. Our primary competitors in the managed services business are SecureWorks, Inc., owned by Dell, Inc. and Verizon Communications, Inc.

Storage and Server Management

The markets for
storage management, backup, archiving, and eDiscovery are intensely competitive. Our primary competitors are CommVault Systems, Inc., EMC, Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM, and Oracle.

Intellectual Property

Protective Measures

We regard some of the features of our internal operations, software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on
copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other measures to protect our proprietary information. Our intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that enables us to gain
recognition for our products, services, and technology and enhance our competitive position.







As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into
non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors, and corporate partners and we enter into license agreements with respect to our software, documentation, and other proprietary information. These license agreements are generally
non-transferable and have a perpetual term. We also educate our employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to protect our facilities, equipment, and networks.

Trademarks, Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses

Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition
to Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered, or applied to register other specific trademarks and service marks to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign
countries and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to
maintain our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use.

We have more than 1,500 patents, in addition to foreign patents and pending U.S. and foreign patent applications, which
relate to various aspects of our products and technology. The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically 17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or 20 years from
the date of filing of the patent application resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products.

Our products are protected under U.S. and international copyright laws and laws related to the protection of intellectual property and proprietary information. We take measures to label such products
with the appropriate proprietary rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide sufficient protection, and our intellectual property rights may be challenged. In addition, we
license some intellectual property from third parties for use in our products, and generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed intellectual property rights. While we believe that our ability to maintain and protect our
intellectual property rights is important to our success, we also believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent, trademark, license, or other intellectual property right.

Seasonality

As is typical for many large software companies, our business is seasonal. Software license and maintenance orders are generally higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our first and
second fiscal quarters. A decline in license and maintenance orders is typical in the first quarter of our fiscal year as compared to license and maintenance orders in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. In addition, we generally receive a
higher volume of software license and maintenance orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders concentrated in the latter part of that month. We believe that this seasonality primarily reflects customer spending patterns and budget cycles, as
well as the impact of compensation incentive plans for our sales personnel. Revenue generally reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a lesser extent than orders because revenue is not recognized until an order is shipped or services are performed
and other revenue recognition criteria are met, and because a significant portion of our in-period revenue comes from our deferred revenue balance.

Employees

As of March 30, 2012, we employed more than
20,500 people worldwide, approximately 45 percent of whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 7,100 employees work in sales and marketing; 6,800 in research and development; 5,100 in support and services; and 1,500 in management,
manufacturing, and administration.







Available Information

Our Internet address iswww.symantec.com.We make available free of charge our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on our
investor relations website located at www.symantec.com/invest. The information contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding our filings athttp://www.sec.gov.



