Item 1.Business

Overview

Symantec is a global leader in security, backup and availability solutions. Our innovative products and services protect
people and information in any digital environment – from the smallest mobile device, to the enterprise data center, to cloud-based systems. Our software and services protect against advanced threats independent of the device and environment in
which information is used or stored.

Founded in 1982, Symantec has operations in more than 50 countries and
our principal executive offices are located at 350 Ellis Street, Mountain View, California, 94043. Our telephone number at that location is (650) 527-8000. Our Internet home page iswww.symantec.com.Other than the information expressly
set forth in this annual report, the information contained or referred to on our website is not part of this annual report.

Strategy

The Company is in the midst of a transformation. New types of solutions and new market opportunities are
emerging as customers look to us to innovate across a digital landscape that has expanded enormously for both consumers and businesses. As we think about our markets today, it is very clear that the industry needs a new model for protection. We are
transitioning from being device-centric, which meant protecting endpoints and the data center, to having the broader focus of protecting and managing digital information. Individuals, businesses, and other organizations use new ways to access their
digital information, creating new opportunities for us to develop products and services which address mobile devices, web services, web platforms, and the emerging software defined data center and network. Our strategy is to establish leadership in
this evolving information-centric world by identifying and delivering security and information management solutions that solve large unmet or underserved customer needs, while building competitive advantage and creating sustainable financial
performance.

To successfully implement our strategy we are focusing on three areas: developing innovative
products and services, changing our Go-To-Market (“GTM”) strategy, and simplifying our organizational structure.

Developing Innovative Products and Services

With data exploding at exponential rates and the sophistication of attacks evolving rapidly, it is increasingly important
to secure and manage valuable data. We see significant opportunity in security and information management, where we have market leading technologies. We are focused on providing comprehensive solutions for mobile and traditional endpoints, the cloud
and increasingly virtualized datacenters. We expect to further expand our offerings by partnering with network vendors to offer solutions in the network space.

With a portfolio of leading products, we intend to focus our development efforts on making our point solutions better while developing new integrated solutions that are aimed at solving important customer
problems. The three areas of focus include:



•User Productivity and Protection: Our goal is to make it simple for customers to be productive and protected at home and at work.



•Information Security: Our goal is to keep businesses safe and compliant regardless of the size, location, or complexity of their
infrastructure.



•Information Management:Our goal is to manage business applications and information availability at any given time.

Changing Our Go-To-Market Strategy

A significant portion of our revenue from enterprise products is derived from sales to end users by our direct sales
force. We believe that sales of our innovative and differentiated products are enhanced by knowledgeable







salespeople who can convey the strong value of our technology; as such we are reorganizing our direct sales force into functional areas of security and information management. The focus of these
specialized teams will be to generate new sales opportunities. We expect that by dividing our direct sales force into specialized teams we will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our sales process.

Concurrently, we are creating a dedicated renewals team that will be focused on extending the customer relationship and
renewing contracts. We are also streamlining our indirect sales channels to effectively reach customers. We intend to have fewer, more focused partners. Additionally, we intend to reorient our partner programs to enhance reseller sales. We believe
these changes will ensure that we provide our end customers with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experiences while expanding our business.

Simplifying the Organization

Aligning our
organization by functional areas, rather than by market segments, will create an opportunity to reduce complexity, remove redundancies, increase the speed of decision making and improve accountability and execution. By the fall of 2013, we expect to
reduce the number of management layers from our existing structure. We also intend to increase the average span of control for managers.

Capital Allocation Strategy

Our enhanced capital allocation strategy is expected to return over time approximately 50% of free cash flow to stockholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases, while still enabling
our company to invest in its future. Our strategy will emphasize organic growth through internal innovation and will be complemented by acquisitions that fit strategically and meet specific internal profitability hurdles.

Our capital allocation program includes the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend, targeting a yield of approximately
2.5% based on our closing stock price on May 1, 2013. On May 2, 2013, our board of directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share of common stock, the first dividend in Symantec’s history, to be paid on June 27, 2013
to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 19, 2013. Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our board of directors.

Our board of directors also approved a new $1.0 billion stock repurchase program. This program does not have an
expiration date. Including our previously approved stock repurchase program, $1.2 billion remained authorized for future repurchases as of March 29, 2013.

The initiation of quarterly dividends coupled with the increased stock repurchase program underscores our commitment to consistently return capital to stockholders, and shows confidence in our long-term
business outlook and our ability to generate a significant amount of cash on a consistent basis.

Business Developments and Highlights

During fiscal 2013, we took the following actions in support of our business strategy:



•Our board of directors appointed a new President and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) to improve performance and increase long-term value
for our stockholders. We also created an Office of the CEO comprised of our CEO, Chief Financial Officer, President Products & Services and Chief Operating Officer, to help make collaborative operational and functional decisions. We
developed a plan to reorganize our company around functional areas rather than business units.



•We released new solutions and entered into key partnerships in the enterprise business. We announced updates to our backup appliances to include our
latest backup software that delivers backup, recovery, and deduplication software providing faster backup speeds, snapshot management, and simplified search and recovery functionality. NetBackup is one of the first third-party backup solutions fully
certified by SAP to support High Performance Analytic Appliance or HANA. Our innovative backup







capabilities are helping customers protect new Big Data solutions that drive deeper business intelligence and help make rapid, data-driven decisions. In this information-driven world, customers
see cloud computing as a new option for flexible, cost-effective computing. Our partnership with Microsoft leverages cloud computing as a Disaster Recovery (DR) target to address business continuity needs for organizations that cannot afford their
own secondary site. Our partnership with Violin Memory, a provider of scalable flash memory arrays, enables us to integrate our storage and data management solutions to improve the performance, energy, efficiency and reliability of solid-state disk
and flash-based storage.



•We released the security industry’s first membership offering for consumers. Norton One allows consumers to purchase and manage security for
multiple devices and platforms from a single cloud-based console with the help of dedicated support advisors. We shipped comprehensive protection across multiple devices and platforms such as Android, Windows, and Mac.



•We completed the purchase of the remaining outstanding shares of common stock and stock rights of publicly traded VeriSign Japan K.K. to better
leverage our brand, sales and marketing resources, deliver products faster to customers, and better enable rapid responses to changes in the competitive landscape.



•We repurchased 49 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate amount of $826 million.

Operating Segments and Products

Our current operating segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services, distinguished by customer needs. The five operating segments in fiscal 2013 were: Consumer, Security
and Compliance, Storage and Server Management, Services, and Other. We expect to modify our segment reporting structure starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 to align with our three new areas of focus.

Consumer

Our consumer products help customers deal with increasingly complex threats, the proliferation of mobile devices, the need for identity protection, and the rapid increase in digital data, such as personal
financial records, photos, music, and videos. For individuals and home businesses, we offer premium, full-featured security suites and personalized membership offerings for multiple platforms and devices, including PCs, Macs, Android-based and iOS
devices, as well as related services such as online backup, family safety, PC tune-up and personal technical support. Our primary consumer products include: Norton 360, Norton 360 Multi-Device, Norton Internet Security, Norton AntiVirus, Norton One,
Norton Online Backup, Norton Mobile Security, and Norton Live Services.

We continue to acquire customers
through a diversified channel strategy. We retain and leverage our large customer base through auto-renewal subscriptions, seek to up-sell customers from point products to multi-product suites, and cross-sell additional products and services. We
also provide a variety of free tools and trial products that offer consumers added value and provide up-sell opportunities.

Security and Compliance

Our Security and Compliance products help organizations protect their information and systems. Our solutions not only provide the strongest protections but also help organizations standardize, automate,
and reduce the costs of day-to-day security activities. We offer security solutions that integrate multiple layers of protection and simplify management. Our primary solutions in this segment address the following areas:

Endpoint Security and Management

Our endpoint security and management offerings help customers secure their environment by addressing the changes in the threat landscape, the evolution of the endpoint to include more mobile devices, and
the pressure to reduce cost and complexity.







Our solutions encrypt and prevent sensitive information from leaving an
organization. We offer two-factor authentication and cloud-based single-sign-on functionality to better protect the identities of an organization’s employees.

Symantec mobile enterprise solutions help organizations embrace the “Bring Your Own Device” trend by allowing
users to select devices of their choice while securing corporate data, gaining visibility into and control of all mobile platforms, and enforcing security policies. Our market-leading security solutions allow customers to secure all their endpoints
and thwart today’s sophisticated cyber-attacks. Products include: Encryption, Validation and Identity Protection, Managed Public Key Infrastructure (“PKI”), Mobile Management, App Center, Mobile Security for Android, Endpoint
Protection for enterprise and small business and Protection Suites.

Symantec systems management capabilities
help IT organizations provide faster and more predictable service to their businesses. Our integrated solutions enable organizations to easily support new technology changes, quickly adapt to changing processes and business needs, and provide the
necessary insight to make more intelligent, data-driven decisions. Products include: Device and Application Management, and IT Management Suite.

Information Security

Our information security businesses
help to keep organizations safe and compliant with industry and government regulations, regardless of the complexity of their infrastructure. Our market-leading solutions allow customers to secure their messaging and web environments, via either
on-premise or hosted solutions. Symantec’s data center security products defend critical servers, either physical or virtual.

Symantec authentication services enable organizations to protect assets by ensuring the true identity of devices, systems, or applications connecting to them and using Secure Socket Layer
(“SSL”) technology to encrypt data in transit. Products include: Critical System Protection, and Trust Services. Our market-leading Data Loss Prevention solution helps businesses proactively protect their information by taking a
content-aware approach. This includes enabling businesses to identify the owners of specific information, locate sensitive data and identify those with access to it. Symantec threat and risk management solutions allow customers to develop and
enforce IT policies, automate IT risk management processes, and demonstrate compliance with industry standards and regulations. Organizations are provided the visibility and security intelligence needed to identify when they are under attack so that
they can respond rapidly. Information about the latest threat and attack trends from our Global Intelligence Network is continuously delivered to many of our solutions and provides customers with real-time information on credible threats to their
critical business assets. Our Managed Security Services extend our security expertise through a combination of remote monitoring, on-call assistance, and management. Products include: Security Incident Manager (SIM), Managed Security Services, and
Control Compliance Suite.

Storage and Server Management

Our storage and server management solutions enable organizations to ensure business continuity and manage the
information-driven world by leveraging our backup and recovery, archiving, eDiscovery, storage management, and high availability solutions. Our offerings help organizations standardize on a single layer of infrastructure software, work on all major
distributed operating systems, and support storage devices, databases, and applications in both physical and virtual environments. Our primary solutions in this segment address the following areas:

Backup & Recovery

Our Backup and Recovery business, which includes software, appliances and cloud based offerings, helps small and medium-sized businesses (“SMB”) and enterprise organizations address the rapid
growth of







information, data duplication, and virtual environments. With our solutions, customers can backup and deduplicate data closer to information sources to reduce storage consumption. Products
include: NetBackup on-premise and appliance, Backup Exec, and Backup Exec.cloud.

Information Intelligence

Our archiving, eDiscovery and intelligent information governance solutions allow organizations to bridge the gap between
their business, legal, and IT groups, and to reduce their risks and costs. Products include: Enterprise Vault, Enterprise Vault.cloud, and eDiscovery.

Storage Management

Our Storage Management and High
Availability businesses address our customers’ need to maintain high service levels and reduce overall storage costs through improved utilization of existing systems, virtualization, and cloud infrastructure offerings. Our products help
customers simplify their datacenters by standardizing storage management across their environment for more efficient and effective use of their existing storage infrastructure. With our solutions, customers can build scalable, high-performance
file-based storage systems onsite, or in private or hybrid clouds, utilizing commodity hardware. They also enable enterprises to manage large storage environments and ensure the availability of critical applications across physical and virtual
environments. Products include: Storage Foundation, Cluster Server, Operations Manager, ApplicationHA, Data Insight, and VirtualStore.

Services

We deliver consulting, education and
dedicated support services. Symantec Services help customers address information security, availability, storage and compliance challenges at the endpoint and in complex, multi-vendor datacenter environments.

Other

Our Other segment includes sunset products and products nearing the end of their life cycle, as well as unallocated costs that are not charged to the other operating segments. This segment is not
considered an active business component of the Company.

Financial Information by Segment and Geographic Region

For information regarding our revenue by segment, revenue by geographical area, and property
and equipment by geographical area, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. For information regarding the amount and percentage of our revenue contributed by each of our segments and our financial
information, including information about geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7,Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsand Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in this annual report. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, see Item 1A,Risk Factors.

Sales and Go-To-Market Strategy

We plan to make changes to
our GTM strategy. Key changes include reorganizing our direct sales force into focus areas of security and information management. The goal of these specialized teams will be to generate new sales opportunities. We expect dividing our direct sales
force into specialized teams will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our sales process. Concurrently, we are creating a dedicated renewals team that will be focused on extending customer relationships and renewing our contracts. We also
plan to streamline our indirect sales partners to effectively reach customers. We intend to have fewer, more focused partners with specialized partner programs to enhance sales. We believe these changes will ensure that we provide our end customers
with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience while expanding our business.







Our GTM network includes a direct sales force, broad eCommerce capabilities,
and indirect sales resources that support our ecosystem of partners worldwide. We also maintain important relationships with a number of Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”), Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”), and retail
and online stores by which we market and sell our products.

Consumer

We sell our consumer products and services to individuals and home businesses globally. Our products are available to
customers through our eCommerce platform, distributors, direct marketers, Internet-based resellers, system builders, ISPs, wireless carriers, and in retail locations worldwide. We have partnerships with OEMs globally to distribute our Internet
security suites and our online backup offerings.

Small and Medium-sized Businesses

We sell and market our products and services to SMB customers through indirect sales partners around the world, who are
specifically trained and certified to sell our solutions. This group includes value-added resellers, large account resellers, and managed service providers. Our products are also available on our eCommerce platform, as well as through authorized
distributors and OEMs which incorporate our technologies into their products, bundle our products with their offerings, or serve as authorized resellers of our products.

Enterprise

We sell and market our products and
related services to enterprise customers through our direct sales force of more than 4,700 sales employees, as of March 29, 2013, and through a variety of indirect sales channels, which include value-added resellers, managed service providers,
large account resellers, and system integrators. We also sell our products to businesses around the world through authorized distributors and OEMs who incorporate our technologies into their products, bundle our products with their offerings, or
serve as authorized resellers of our products. Our sales efforts are primarily targeted to senior executives and IT department personnel responsible for managing a company’s IT initiatives.

Marketing and Advertising

Our marketing expenditures relate primarily to advertising and promotion, including demand generation and product recognition. Our advertising and promotion efforts include, among other things, electronic
and print advertising, trade shows, collateral production, and all forms of direct marketing. We also invest in cooperative marketing campaigns with distributors, resellers, retailers, OEMs, and industry partners.

We invest in various retention-focused marketing and customer loyalty programs to help drive renewals and encourage
customer advocacy and referrals. We also provide vertical industry-focused marketing programs in targeted industries and countries.

We typically offer two types of rebate programs within most countries: volume incentive rebates to channel partners and promotional rebates to distributors and end users. Distributors and resellers earn
volume incentive rebates primarily based upon the amount of product sales to end users. We also offer rebates to end users who purchase products through various resale channels. Both volume incentive rebates and end-user rebates are accrued as an
offset to revenue or deferred revenue.

Research and Development

Symantec embraces a global research and development (“R&D”) strategy to drive organic innovation. Engineers
and researchers throughout the Company pursue advanced projects to translate R&D into customer solutions by creating new technologies and integrating our unique set of technology assets. Symantec focuses on







short, medium, and long-term applied research, develops new products in emerging areas, participates in government-funded research projects, drives industry standards, and partners with
universities to conduct research supporting Symantec’s strategy.

Symantec’s Security Technology and
Response organization is a global team of security engineers, threat analysts, and researchers that provides the underlying functionality, content, and support for many of our enterprise, SMB, and consumer security products. Our security experts
monitor malicious code reports collected through the Global Intelligence Network to provide insight into emerging attacks, malicious code activity, phishing, spam, and other threats. The team uses this vast intelligence to develop new technologies
and approaches, such as Symantec’s reputation-based security technology, to protect customer information.

Research and development expenses, exclusive of in-process research and development associated with acquisitions, were
$1,012 million, $969 million, and $862 million in fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, representing approximately 15% of revenue in fiscal 2013 and 14% of revenue in fiscal 2012 and 2011. We believe that technical leadership is
essential to our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to R&D.

Support

Symantec has support facilities throughout the world, staffed by technical product experts knowledgeable in the operating
environments in which our products are deployed. Our technical support experts assist customers with issue resolution and threat detection.

We provide consumers with various levels of support offerings. Consumers that subscribe to LiveUpdate receive automatic downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug fixes, and patches for
most of our consumer products. Our standard consumer support program provides self-help online services and phone, chat, and email support to consumers worldwide. Our Norton One membership features elite-level support, which includes an under
two-minute wait time for phone calls, an instant call back feature, and virus protection assurance.

We
provide customers various levels of enterprise support offerings. Our enterprise security support program offers annual maintenance support contracts, including content, upgrades, and technical support. Our standard technical support includes:
self-service options delivered by telephone or electronically during the contracted-for hours, immediate patches for severe problems, periodic software updates, and access to our technical knowledge base and frequently asked questions.

Customers

In fiscal 2013 and 2012, there were no significant customers that accounted for more than 10% of our total net revenue. In
fiscal 2011, one distributor, Ingram Micro, accounted for 10% of our total net revenue. Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consisted of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with its subsidiaries, each of which cover
different countries or regions. Each of these agreements was separately negotiated and was independent of any other contract (such as a master distribution agreement), and these agreements were not based on the same form of contract.

Acquisitions

Our strategy will be complemented by business combinations that fit strategically and meet specific profitability hurdles. Our acquisitions are designed to enhance the features and functionality of our
existing products and extend our product leadership in core markets. We consider time-to-market, synergies with existing products, and potential market share gains when evaluating the economics of acquisitions of technologies, product lines, or
companies. We may acquire or dispose of other technologies, products, and companies in the future.







We did not make any material acquisitions during fiscal 2013. For further
discussion of our acquisitions, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report.

Competition

Our markets are consolidating, highly competitive, and subject to rapid changes in technology. The
competitive landscape has changed significantly over the past few years, with new competition arising; much of the market growth has come from startups whose focus is on solving a specific customer issue or delivering a specific niche-oriented
product and from larger integration providers that increasingly are looking to put various types of protection, whether it is backup, high availability or security, into their platforms. We are focused on delivering comprehensive customer solutions,
integrating across our broad product portfolio and partnering with other technology providers to differentiate ourselves from the competition. We believe that the principal competitive factors necessary to be successful in our industry include
product quality and effectiveness, time-to-market, price, reputation, financial stability, breadth of product offerings, customer support, brand recognition, and effective sales and marketing efforts.

In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors, we face indirect or potential competition from retailers,
application providers, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs who may provide various solutions and functions in their current and future products. We also compete for access to retail distribution channels and
for spending at the retail level and in corporate accounts. In addition, we compete with other software companies, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs to acquire technologies, products, or companies and to
publish software developed by third parties. We also compete with other software companies in our effort to place our products on the computer equipment sold to consumers and enterprises by OEMs.

The competitive environments for each segment are described below.

Consumer

Most of the channels in which our consumer products are offered are highly competitive. Our competitors are intensely focused on customer acquisition, which has led competitors to offer their technology
for free, engage in aggressive marketing, or enter into competitive partnerships. Our primary competitors in the Consumer segment are McAfee, Inc., owned by Intel Corporation (“McAfee”), and Trend Micro Inc. (“Trend Micro”).
There are also several freeware providers and regional security companies that we compete against. For our consumer backup offerings, our primary competitors are Carbonite, Inc. and Mozy, Inc., owned by EMC Corporation (“EMC”).

Security and Compliance

In the security and management markets, we compete against many companies that offer competing products to our solutions. Our primary competitors in the security and management market are McAfee,
Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”), and Trend Micro. There are also several smaller regional security companies with which we compete. In the authentication services market, our primary competitors are Comodo Group, Inc., RSA, the
security division of EMC, Entrust, Inc., and GoDaddy.com, Inc. In the Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) security market, our primary competitors are Google Inc.’s Postini Services and Microsoft. Our primary competitors in the managed
services business are SecureWorks, Inc., owned by Dell, Inc., and Verizon Communications, Inc.

Storage and Server
Management

The markets for storage management, backup, archiving, and eDiscovery are intensely
competitive. Our primary competitors are CommVault Systems, Inc., EMC, Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM, Oracle, and Veeam Software.







Intellectual Property

Protective Measures

We regard some of the features
of our internal operations, software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other measures to protect our proprietary information.
Our intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that enables us to gain recognition for our products, services, and technology and enhance our competitive position.

As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees,
distributors, and corporate partners and we enter into license agreements with respect to our software, documentation, and other proprietary information. These license agreements are generally non-transferable and have a perpetual term. We also
educate our employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to protect our facilities, equipment, and networks.

Trademarks, Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses

Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition
to Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered, or applied to register other specific trademarks and service marks to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign
countries and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to
maintain our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use.

We have more than 1,900 patents, in addition to foreign patents and pending U.S. and foreign patent applications, which
relate to various aspects of our products and technology. The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically 17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or 20 years from
the date of filing of the patent application resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products.

Our products are protected under U.S. and international copyright laws and laws related to the protection of intellectual property and proprietary information. We take measures to label such products
with the appropriate proprietary rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide sufficient protection, and our intellectual property rights may be challenged. In addition, we
license some intellectual property from third parties for use in our products, and generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed intellectual property rights. While we believe that our ability to maintain and protect our
intellectual property rights is important to our success, we also believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent, trademark, license, or other intellectual property right.

Seasonality

As is typical for many large software companies, our business is seasonal. Software license and maintenance orders are generally higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our first and
second fiscal quarters. A decline in license and maintenance orders is typical in the first quarter of our fiscal year as compared to license and maintenance orders in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. In addition, we generally receive a
higher volume of software license and maintenance orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders concentrated in the latter part of that month. We believe that this seasonality primarily reflects customer spending patterns and budget cycles, as
well as the impact of compensation incentive plans for our sales personnel. Revenue generally reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a lesser extent than orders because revenue is not recognized until an order is shipped or services are performed
and other revenue recognition criteria are met, and because a significant portion of our in-period revenue comes from our deferred revenue balance.







Employees

As of March 29, 2013, we employed more than 21,500 people worldwide, approximately 44 % of whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 7,400 employees work in sales and marketing, 7,200
in research and development, 5,400 in support and services, and 1,500 in management, manufacturing, and administration.

Available
Information

Our Internet address iswww.symantec.com.We make available free of charge our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) on our investor relations website located at www.symantec.com/invest. The information contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted. The SEC maintains a website that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our filings athttp://www.sec.gov.



