Item 1.Business

Overview

Symantec Corporation is a global leader in security, backup and availability solutions. Our market leading products and services protect people and information in any environment – from the mobile device in your pocket, to the enterprise data center, to cloud-based systems. Founded in April 1982, Symantec operates one of the largest global threat-intelligence networks. The company has more than 19,000 employees in more than 50 countries.Our Internet home page is www.symantec.com.

Strategy

In our security business, we operate a global civilian cyber intelligence threat network and track a vast number of threats across the Internet from hundreds of millions of mobile devices, endpoints, and servers across the globe. We believe one of our competitive advantages is our database of threat indicators which allows us to reduce the number of false positives and provide faster and better protection for customers through our products. We are leveraging our capabilities in threat protection and data loss prevention and extending them into our core security offerings. We are also pioneering new solutions in growing markets like cloud, advanced threat protection, information protection and cyber security services.

Our security strategy is to leverage our unique assets to provide best-in-class consumer and enterprise security products; deliver a unified security analytics platform that provides big data analytics, utilizes our vast telemetry, provides visibility into real-time global threats, and powers Symantec and third-party security analytics applications; and offer cyber security services that provide a full-suite of services from monitoring to incident response to threat intelligence supported by over 500 cyber security experts and nine global threat centers.

In our information management business, with a global installed customer base, we have a comprehensive portfolio that spans backup and recovery, storage management and archiving. Our information availability offerings help customers keep their data and systems available where they need them, when they need them, and irrespective of their location. Our information insight solutions help customers know what data they have and leverage that knowledge to help manage such data better and inform strategic decisions.

Our information management product strategy is to expand our best-in-class foundational portfolio across backup, storage management, business continuity, archiving and eDiscovery through software, integrated appliances and the cloud; deliver next-generation availability solutions through a coordinated orchestration architecture focused on managing and moving mission-critical data in a hybrid cloud world; and enable next-generation insight solutions that provide visibility, action, and automated control across an organization’s information landscape through an intelligent information fabric that integrates our portfolio and third-party ecosystems.

In fiscal 2015, we focused on five priorities: running our businesses with a portfolio approach by managing certain businesses for operating margin; prioritizing investments for growth; further reducing costs and improving efficiencies; attracting top talent to our executive team; and continuing to return significant cash to shareholders. We are optimizing some of our businesses by methodically evaluating every product line to balance our profitability targets against our objectives. In order to prioritize investments for growth, we are realigning our research and development budgets to apply the best resources to the most promising market opportunities. To further reduce costs and improve efficiencies, we are consolidating our global footprint, data centers and product support capabilities as well as streamlining the way we run our businesses with initiatives to increase research and development efficiencies and sales productivity. We are focused on continuing to attract talented business and technology leaders to the company. We remain committed to returning significant cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share buybacks.

The Planned Separation of Information Management from the Security Business

On October 9, 2014, we announced plans to separate our business into two independent publicly-traded companies: one focused on security and one focused on information management. The transaction is intended to take the form of a tax-free distribution to Symantec shareholders of all of the capital stock of our information management business. We expect to complete the legal separation on January 2, 2016, subject to market, regulatory and certain other conditions. John Gannon has been appointed as General Manager of the information management business, and Don Rath has been appointed as acting Chief Financial Officer. After the transaction, Michael Brown and Thomas Seifert will continue to lead Symantec as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively. For additional separation cost information, seeNote 6of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report.









Business Highlights

During fiscal 2015, we took the following actions in support of our business:

•We announced plans to separate our business into two independent publicly-traded companies: one focused on security and one focused on information management.

•We released new products and services.

◦In Information Management, we launched our NetBackup 5330 appliance, which delivers twice the performance and capacity of our prior models, making the management of information simpler and less expensive; and we released Backup Exec 2014, which delivers powerful, flexible, and easy-to-use backup and recovery to protect a customer’s physical, virtual, or hybrid environment for a mixture of applications and operating systems.

◦In Consumer Security, we simplified our product portfolio by streamlining our core products into a single Norton Security offering.

◦In Enterprise Security, we launched our managed advanced threat protection service, which helps customers triangulate threat indicators from our endpoint protection and third-party security products to provide more comprehensive threat detection. We also introduced our managed incident response service, which provides emergency on-demand service to help customers recover from a breach. In addition, we introduced our managed adversary and threat intelligence service, which offers customers a deeper understanding of specific threat actors and attacks.

•We hired five new executives, who bring valuable skills in analytics, backup and recovery software, sales, security, strategy, and human resources.

•We remained committed to a capital allocation strategy pursuant to which we expect to return over time approximately 50% of free cash flow to stockholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases, while still enabling our company to invest in its future. As part of this program we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.15 per share of common stock in fiscal 2015, paying out a total of$413 millionto shareholders.

•Our Board of Directors approved an additional$1.0 billionstock repurchase program in February 2015. This program does not have an expiration date. During fiscal 2015, we repurchased21 millionshares of our common stock for an aggregate amount of$500 million, and$1.2 billionremains authorized for future repurchases.

Operating Segments and Products

Our operating segments are significant strategic business units that offer different products and services distinguished by customer needs. In the second quarter of fiscal 2015, we modified our segment reporting structure to match our new operating structure. The three reporting segments, which are the same as our operating segments, are:Consumer Security, Enterprise Security, and Information Management.

Consumer Security

Our Consumer Security segment focuses on making it simple for customers to be productive and protected at home and at work. Our Norton-branded services provide multi-layer security and identity protection on major desktop and mobile operating systems, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families, and small businesses.

Our Norton products help customers protect against increasingly complex threats and address the need for identity protection, while also managing the rapid increase in mobile and digital data, such as personal financial records, photos, music, and videos.

Enterprise Security

Our Enterprise Security segment protects organizations so they can securely conduct business while leveraging new platforms and data. These products include Secure Socket Layer (“SSL”) Certificates, authentication, mail and web security, data center security, data loss prevention, information security services, endpoint security and management, encryption, and mobile security offerings.

These products and services help our customers secure their confidential information wherever it resides in the network path, from the user’s device to the data’s resting place. In doing so, these products protect customer data from sophisticated threats such as advanced protection threats, malicious spam and phishing attacks, malware, drive-by website infections, hackers, and cyber criminals. In addition, these products help to prevent the loss of confidential data by insiders, and help customers achieve compliance with laws and regulations. Our enterprise endpoint security and management offerings support the evolving endpoint, providing advanced threat protection while helping reduce cost and complexity. These solutions are delivered through various methods, such as software, appliance, SaaS, and managed services.









Information Management

Our Information Management segment focuses on backup and recovery, archiving and eDiscovery, storage and high availability solutions, helping to ensure that our customers’ IT infrastructure and mission-critical applications are protected, managed and available.

Our products enable customers to reduce cost and complexity as we improve the way information is managed through the ever-evolving cloud and virtualized environments. Our products are designed to ensure successful backup, recovery, availability, eDiscovery and archiving of information, applications, and systems for organizations ranging from small businesses to large enterprises.

Financial Information by Segment and Geographic Region

For information regarding our revenue by segment, revenue by geographical area, and property and equipment by geographical area, seeNote 9of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. For information regarding the amount and percentage of our revenue contributed by each of our segments and our financial information, including information about geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations andNote 9of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, see Item 1A, Risk Factors.

Sales and Go-To-Market Strategy

Our go-to-market ("GTM") network includes direct sales forces and broad eCommerce capabilities, as well as indirect sales resources that support our global partner ecosystem. We also maintain important relationships with a number of Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”), Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”), and retail and online stores by which we market and sell our products.

Our dedicated renewals team remains focused on extending customer relationships and renewing our contracts. We also continued to streamline our indirect sales strategy to have fewer, more focused partners with specialized partner programs to enhance sales. We believe these changes provide customers with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience, while also enabling us to expand our business.

Consumer and Small Business

We sell our consumer products and services to individuals, households and small businesses globally. We bring these products to market through our eCommerce platform, distributors, direct marketers, Internet-based resellers, system builders, ISPs, wireless carriers, and retailers worldwide. We also have a limited number of partnerships with OEMs globally to distribute our Internet security and online backup offerings.

Commercial

We sell and market our products and related services to small, medium and large enterprise customers through field sales and inside sales leveraging indirect sales partners around the world who are specifically trained and certified to sell our solutions. These partners include national solution providers, regional solution providers, national account resellers, global/federal system integrators and managed service providers. Our products are also available on our eCommerce platform, as well as through authorized distributors and OEMs who incorporate our technologies into their products, bundle our products with their offerings, or serve as authorized resellers of our products.

Enterprise

We sell and market our products and related services to large enterprises, including government and public sector customers, through our field sales force. This field sales team is responsible for approximately 2,000 named accounts around the world, leveraging our global partner ecosystem primarily targeting senior executives and IT department personnel responsible for managing a company’s highest-order IT initiatives.

Research and Development

Symantec embraces a global research and development (“R&D”) strategy to drive organic innovation. Engineers and researchers throughout the Company pursue advanced projects to translate R&D into customer solutions by creating new technologies and integrating our unique set of technology assets. Symantec focuses on short, medium, and long-term applied research, develops new products in emerging areas, participates in government-funded research projects, drives industry standards, and partners with universities to conduct research supporting Symantec’s strategy.

Symantec’s Security Technology and Response organization consists of a global team of security engineers, threat analysts, and researchers and provides the underlying functionality, content, and support for many of our consumer, small business and enterprise security products. Our security experts monitor malicious code reports collected through the Global Intelligence Network, one of the largest in the world, to provide insight into emerging attacks, malicious code activity, phishing, spam, and other threats. The team uses this vast amount of data and insights to develop new technologies and approaches, such as









Symantec’s reputation-based security technology and our forthcoming unified security analytics platform, to protect customer information.

Research and development expenses were$1,144 million,$1,039 million, and$1,026 millionin fiscal 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, representing approximately18%of revenue in fiscal 2015 and16%and15%of revenue in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. The percentage fluctuates between periods as a result of a variety of factors, including changes in sales level and foreign currency exchange rates. We believe that technical leadership is essential to our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to R&D.

Support

Symantec has support facilities throughout the world, staffed by technical product experts knowledgeable in the operating environments in which our products are deployed. Our technical support experts assist customers with issue resolution and threat detection.

We provide consumers with various levels of support offerings. Consumers receive automatic downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug fixes, and patches for most of our consumer products. Our consumer support program provides self-help online services and phone, chat, and email support to consumers worldwide, and our Norton Security products come with a “Virus Protection Promise,” which in some markets provides free virus removal services to customers whose protected computers become infected.

We provide customers various levels of enterprise support offerings. Our enterprise security support program offers annual maintenance support contracts, including content, upgrades, and technical support. Our standard technical support includes: self-service options delivered by telephone or electronically during the contracted-for hours, immediate patches for severe problems, periodic software updates, and access to our technical knowledge base and frequently asked questions.

Customers

In fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, there were no customers that accounted for more than 10% of our total net revenue.

Acquisitions

Our strategy will be complemented by business combinations that fit strategically and meet specific profitability hurdles. Our acquisitions are designed to enhance the features and functionality of our existing products and extend our product leadership in core markets. We consider time-to-market, synergies with existing products, and potential market share gains when evaluating the economics of acquisitions of technologies, product lines, or companies. We may acquire or dispose of other technologies, products, and companies in the future.

We did not make any material acquisitions during fiscal 2015.

Competition

Our markets are consolidating, highly competitive, and subject to rapid changes in technology. The competitive landscape has changed significantly over the past few years, with new competition arising. Much of the market growth has come from startups whose focus is on solving a specific customer issue or delivering a specific niche-oriented product and from larger integration providers that increasingly are looking to put various types of protection, whether it is backup, high availability or security, into their platforms. We are focused on delivering comprehensive customer solutions, integrating across our broad product portfolio and partnering with other technology providers to differentiate ourselves from the competition. We believe that the principal competitive factors necessary to be successful in our industry include product quality and effectiveness, time-to-market, price, reputation, financial stability, breadth of product offerings, customer support, brand recognition, and effective sales and marketing efforts.

In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors, we face indirect or potential competition from retailers, application providers, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs who may provide various solutions and functions in their current and future products. We also compete for access to retail distribution channels and for spending at the retail level and in corporate accounts. In addition, we compete with other software companies, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs to acquire technologies, products, or companies and to publish software developed by third parties. We also compete with other software companies in our effort to place our products on the computer equipment sold to consumers and enterprises by OEMs.

The competitive environments for our security and information management products are described below.

Security

Most of the channels in which our security products are offered are highly competitive. Some of our consumer competitors are intensely focused on customer acquisition, which has led competitors to offer their technology for free, engage in aggressive marketing, or enter into competitive partnerships. Our primary security competitors are Intel Corporation, Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”), and Trend Micro Inc. There are also several freeware providers and regional security companies









that we compete against. For our consumer backup offerings, our primary competitors are Carbonite, Inc. and EMC Corporation (“EMC”). In the SSL market, our primary competitors are Comodo Group, Inc. and GoDaddy.com, Inc. In the Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) security market, our primary competitors are Google Inc. and Microsoft. Our primary competitors in the managed security services business are Dell Inc., IBM Corporation ("IBM"), and Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP").

Information Management

The markets for storage management, backup, archiving, and eDiscovery are intensely competitive. Our primary competitors are CommVault Systems, Inc., EMC, HP and IBM.

Intellectual Property

Protective Measures

We regard some of the features of our internal operations, software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other measures to protect our proprietary information. Our intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that enables us to gain recognition for our products, services, and technology and enhance our competitive position.

As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors, and corporate partners and we enter into license agreements with respect to our software, documentation, and other proprietary information. These license agreements are generally non-transferable and have either a perpetual or subscription based time limited term. We also educate our employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to protect our facilities, equipment, and networks.

Trademarks, Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses

Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered, or applied to register other specific trademarks and service marks to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign countries and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to maintain our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use.

We have more than 2,700 patents, in addition to foreign patents and pending U.S. and foreign patent applications, which relate to various aspects of our products and technology. The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically 17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or 20 years from the date of filing of the patent application resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products.

Our products are protected under U.S. and international copyright laws and laws related to the protection of intellectual property and proprietary information. We take measures to label such products with the appropriate proprietary rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide sufficient protection, and our intellectual property rights may be challenged. In addition, we license some intellectual property from third parties for use in our products, and generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed intellectual property rights. While we believe that our ability to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is important to our success, we also believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent, trademark, license, or other intellectual property right.

Seasonality

As is typical for many large technology companies, our business is seasonal. License and maintenance orders are generally higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our first and second fiscal quarters. A decline in license and maintenance orders is typical in the first quarter of our fiscal year as compared to license and maintenance orders in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. In addition, we generally receive a higher volume of license and maintenance orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders concentrated in the latter part of that month. We believe that this seasonality primarily reflects customer spending patterns and budget cycles, as well as the impact of compensation incentive plans for our sales personnel. Revenue generally reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a lesser extent than orders because revenue is not recognized until an order is shipped or services are performed and other revenue recognition criteria are met, and because a significant portion of our in-period revenue comes from our deferred revenue balance.

Employees

As of April 3, 2015, we employed more than 19,000 people worldwide, approximately 44% of whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 6,100 employees work in sales and marketing, 6,700 in research and development, 4,900 in support and services, and 1,900 in management, manufacturing, and administration.









Available Information

Our Internet address iswww.symantec.com.We make available free of charge our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on our investor relations website located atwww.symantec.com/invest. The information contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our filings athttp://www.sec.gov.In addition, you may read and copy any filing that we make with the SEC at the public reference room maintained by the SEC, located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference room.



