Item 1.Business



Overview



Symantec is a global provider of security, storage, and systems
    management solutions that help businesses and consumers secure
    and manage their information and identities. We conduct our
    business in three geographic regions: Americas, which is
    comprised of the United States, Canada, and Latin America;
    Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”); and Asia
    Pacific Japan (“APJ”).



Founded in 1982, Symantec has operations in more than 48
    countries and our principal executive offices are located at 350
    Ellis Street, Mountain View, California, 94043. Our telephone
    number at that location is(650) 527-8000.Our home page on the Internet iswww.symantec.com.Other
    than the information expressly set forth in this annual report,
    the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not
    part of this annual report.



Strategy



Symantec’s strategy is to enable our customers to secure
    and manage information and identities independent of device or
    platform. We help individuals, small and medium-sized businesses
    (“SMB”), and global organizations ensure that their
    information, technology infrastructures, and related processes
    are protected and managed easily. We deliver solutions that
    allow customers to access information when they need it and make
    it available to all of those who should have access to it. In
    addition to providing customers with traditional software
    solutions, we continue to expand our Software-as-a-Service
    (“SaaS”) and appliance based offerings, giving
    customers’ choice as to how our solutions are delivered and
    deployed.





We operate primarily in three diversified markets within the
    software sector: security, backup and storage management.



The security market includes mission-critical products that
    protect consumers and enterprises from threats to electronic
    information, endpoint devices, and computer networks. The threat
    environment is rapidly changing. Attackers have become highly
    sophisticated, primarily targeting information assets. Threats
    are increasingly focused on stealing confidential information
    and identities for financial gain. The Internet has become the
    primary conduit for attack activity, with hackers increasingly
    funneling threats through legitimate websites, placing a much
    larger percentage of the population at risk than in the past.
    Data losses are not realized solely from external attacks but
    are also administered by malicious, or even well-meaning,
    insiders. Proliferation of devices and information growth is
    driving the need for a more comprehensive security framework
    that protects information and authenticates users across
    multiple platforms and devices.





The backup software market includes products that manage,
    protect, deduplicate and recover information. Effective backup
    and recovery continue to be high priority matters as
    organizations seek to better manage information growth and
    maximize operational efficiency in both physical and virtual
    environments. Enterprises are continuing to transition from tape
    to disk-based backup. To deal with the unprecedented rate of
    information growth, organizations are increasingly adopting data
    deduplication technology, a data compression technique that
    eliminates redundancies in data storage. Consumers are also
    creating unprecedented amounts of digital information that they
    want to protect. They also want to access their personal files,
    videos and pictures at any time, from anywhere and on any device.



The storage management software market includes products that
    help organizations manage heterogeneous storage infrastructure
    and run mission critical applications with confidence. Factors
    driving demand in this market include the pressure on companies
    to lower costs by optimizing storage utilization and
    accelerating cloud and virtualization adoption while keeping
    critical applications continuously available. Our new storage
    management initiatives help customers provide high-performance,
    low-cost storage in a virtualized environment.



Business
    Developments and Highlights



During fiscal 2011, we took the following actions in support of
    our business:





•Our new consumer eCommerce platform completed its first year of
    operations and now serves customers in 230 countries, and
    supports 18 languages and 24 currencies. The benefits of an
    in-house eCommerce capability include building a closer
    relationship with our customers and enabling greater speed to
    take advantage of market trends. The ability to develop more
    targeted programs with our eCommerce platform is allowing us to
    achieve higher levels of customer renewals, better acquire new
    customers, and facilitate our up-selling and cross-selling
    efforts in our Consumer business.



•We launched several new products and initiatives to extend our
    security leadership beyond the PC. In the consumer business, we
    launched our Norton Everywhere initiative for mobile and
    embedded devices. In the enterprise business we now offer
    solutions to manage and protect mobile devices. These solutions
    help customers enforce data governance, secure corporate data
    and increase visibility across mobile platforms.



•We completed three acquisitions during fiscal 2011. We acquired
    the identity and authentication business of VeriSign, Inc.
    (“VeriSign”). We also acquired PGP Corporation
    (“PGP”) and GuardianEdge Technologies, Inc.
    (“GuardianEdge”), two privately-held industry leaders
    in encryption technologies. These authentication and encryption
    capabilities have strengthened our leadership position in
    security and have enhanced our ability to make data protection
    more intelligent and policy driven. We have made great strides
    in effectively integrating these acquired technologies and
    leveraging our distribution network to grow these businesses.



•We made important advances to help customers migrate to
    next-generation information management as they transition from
    tape to disk-based backup and manage the unprecedented growth of
    unstructured information. These advances include integrating
    deduplication and archiving into our backup solutions. In
    addition, we developed and enhanced products that support VMware
    and Microsoft Hyper-V virtualization technologies and allow
    customers to reduce management complexity and operational costs
    in their virtual environments. We also launched backup
    appliances with an easy to deploy,all-in-onehardware and software backup solution with integrated
    deduplication.



•In the storage management business, we launched Application High
    Availability (“AppHA”) and VirtualStore which were
    developed with the support of VMware. AppHA helps organizations
    virtualize their business critical applications and VirtualStore
    provides high-performance, low-cost storage for desktop and
    server virtualization deployments. In addition, we released our
    FileStore appliance, a clustered network attached storage
    (“NAS”) appliance that helps customers build out cloud
    storage, manage large volumes of data, and control storage costs.



•We expanded our cloud-based offerings with the release of
    Symantec Endpoint Protection.cloud, our internally developed
    hosted endpoint protection service. We will seek to extend our
    lead in this fast growth market by delivering additional SaaS
    services such as archiving, data loss prevention and governance
    offerings.







•We raised $1.1 billion from the issuance of senior
    unsecured notes. We also renewed our $1 billion revolving
    line of credit, extending its term for another four years.•We repurchased 57 million shares of our common stock for an
    aggregate amount of $870 million.



Operating
    Segments and Products



Our operating segments are strategic business units that offer
    different products and services, distinguished by customer
    needs. We have five operating segments: Consumer, Security and
    Compliance, Storage and Server Management, Services, and Other.



Consumer



Our Consumer segment helps consumers deal with increasingly
    complex threats, the proliferation of mobile devices, the need
    for identity protection, and the rapid increase of digital
    consumer data, such as photos, music, and video. For individual
    users and home offices, we offer premium, full-featured security
    suites as well as related services such as online backup, family
    safety, and PCtune-up.



We continue to acquire customers through a diversified channel
    strategy. We retain and leverage our large customer base through
    auto-renewal subscriptions, and seek to migrate customers from
    point products to multi-product suites, and cross-selling
    additional products or services. Under our Norton brand we also
    provide a variety of free tools and services that offer
    consumers added value and provide an opportunity to begin a
    relationship and ongoing communication with them.



Our award-winning Norton 2011 products include our innovative
    reputation-based security, a technology that provides real-time
    threat detection. Our online backup offering serves
    13 million customers and hosts more than 68 petabytes of
    consumers’ data. In fiscal year 2011, we introduced our
    Norton Everywhere initiative to take Norton beyond the PC by
    delivering protection across locations, devices and digital
    experiences. Our primary consumer products include: Norton 360,
    Norton Internet Security, Norton AntiVirus, Norton Online
    Backup, Norton Live Services and our newly released Norton
    Mobile Security.



Security
    and Compliance



Our Security and Compliance segment helps our enterprise
    customers standardize, automate, and reduce the costs ofday-to-daysecurity activities in order to secure and manage their
    information and identities. We offer security suite solutions
    that tie together multiple layers of protection and simplify
    management. Our primary solutions in this segment address the
    following areas:



Infrastructure
    Protection



We provide solutions that allow customers to secure their
    endpoints, messaging and Web environments in addition to
    defending critical servers and implementing the ability to back
    up and recover data. Organizations are also provided the
    visibility and security intelligence needed to identify when
    they’re under attack so that they can respond rapidly.
    Products include: Protection Suites, Endpoint Protection for
    enterprise and small business, and Mail Gateway.



Information
    Protection



We help businesses proactively protect their information by
    taking a content-aware approach. This includes enabling
    businesses to identify the owners of specific information,
    locate sensitive information and identify those with access to
    it, and encrypt sensitive information as it is entering or
    leaving an organization. Products include: Data Loss Prevention,
    Whole Disk Encryption and Endpoint Encryption.



Authentication
    Services



We provide the ability to authenticate identities, allowing
    businesses to ensure that only authorized personnel have access
    to information and systems. Authentication services also enable
    organizations to protect public facing





assets by ensuring the true identity of a device, system, or
    application and use Secure Socket Layers (“SSL”) to
    encrypt data in transit. Products include: VeriSign SSL,
    VeriSign Identity Protection (“VIP”), and VeriSign PKI
    Services.



Compliance



Our compliance and risk management solutions allow customers to
    develop and enforce IT policies, automate IT risk management
    processes and demonstrate compliance with industry standards and
    regulations. Our integrated and automated suite allows
    organizations to take a more proactive approach to IT risk and
    compliance management, enabling them to understand their key
    risks, enforce desired policies, efficiently identify gaps, and
    drive focused remediation activities to ensure the best outcomes
    for their organizations. Products include our Control Compliance
    Suite.



Systems
    Management



Our systems management capabilities help IT organizations
    provide faster and more predictable service to their businesses.
    Our integrated solutions ensure that organizations’
    management infrastructures can easily support new technology
    changes, can quickly adapt to changing processes and business
    needs, and can provide the necessary insight to make more
    intelligent, data-driven decisions. Products include: IT
    Management Suite, Mobile Management, and Endpoint Virtualization.



Software-as-a-
    Service



Our SaaS offerings provide customers the flexibility to manage
    their business requirements using hosted services.
    Symantec.cloud, our SaaS brand, enables customers to increase
    their messaging and web protection by blocking email, web and IM
    threats before they reach the network. Services include: Email
    Security.cloud, Web Security.cloud and Symantec Endpoint
    Protection.cloud.



Storage
    and Server Management



Our Storage and Server Management segment consists of
    information management and storage management solutions. Our
    offerings enable companies to standardize on a single layer of
    infrastructure software and work on all major distributed
    operating systems and support storage devices, databases, and
    applications in both physical and virtual environments.



Information
    Management



Our Information Management business, which includes backup and
    archiving, is driven by the rapid growth of information, data
    duplication, virtual environments, management inefficiencies,
    and legale-discoveryneeds. We help SMB and enterprise organizations protect
    themselves by bringing together archiving, deduplication,
    virtualization, and backup functionality into a fully integrated
    solution. With our solutions, customers can back up and
    deduplicate data closer to information sources to reduce storage
    consumption. In addition, our offerings archive and enable a
    compliant and litigation-ready information infrastructure.
    Products include: NetBackup, Backup Exec, and Enterprise Vault.



Storage
    Management and High Availability



Our Storage Management and High Availability business is driven
    by our customers’ need to reduce overall storage costs
    through improved utilization of existing systems,
    virtualization, and cloud infrastructure offerings. Our products
    help customers simplify their data centers by standardizing
    storage management across their environment for more efficient
    and effective use of their existing storage investments. With
    our solutions, customers can build scalable, high-performance
    file-based storage systems onsite or in private and public
    clouds. They also enable enterprises to manage large storage
    environments and ensure the availability of critical
    applications across physical and virtual environments. Products
    include: Storage Foundation, Cluster Server, AppHA,
    VirtualStore, and FileStore.





Services



Symantec Services help customers address information security,
    availability, storage, and compliance challenges at the endpoint
    and in complex, multi-vendor data center environments. We
    deliver managed, business critical and education services. These
    services complement our customers’ existing resources to
    secure and manage their information so they can maximize
    operational efficiency and reduce risk.



Managed,
    Business Critical and Education Services



Managed Services enable customers to place resource-intensive IT
    operations under the management of experienced Symantec
    specialists in order to optimize existing resources and focus on
    strategic IT projects. These services include: Managed Security
    Services, Managed Endpoint Protection Services and Managed
    Backup Services. Business Critical Services, our highest level
    of enterprise support services, connects our customers to
    Symantec’s technical community and best practices to help
    them realize immediate and ongoing value from their investments,
    and optimize their IT operations. Education Services delivers a
    full range of programs, including technical training,
    certification and custom learning services designed to help IT
    teams properly implement their Symantec solutions and optimize
    their use of the advanced functionality of our products.



Other



The Other segment includes sunset products and unallocated
    general administrative costs and is not considered an active
    business component of the company.



Financial
    Information by Segment and Geographic Region



For information regarding our revenue by segment, revenue by
    geographical area, and long-lived assets by geographical area,
    see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in this annual report. For information regarding the
    amount and percentage of our revenue contributed in each of our
    segments and our financial information, including information
    about geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7,Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results ofOperations and Note 10 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual
    report. For information regarding risks associated with our
    international operations, see Item 1A,Risk Factors.



Sales andGo-To-MarketStrategy



Ourgo-to-marketnetwork includes direct, inside, and channel sales resources
    that support our ecosystem of partners worldwide. We also
    maintain important relationships with a number of Original
    Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”), Internet Service
    Providers (“ISPs”), and retail and online stores by
    which we market and sell our products.



Consumer



We sell our consumer products and services to individuals and
    home offices globally through a network of distribution partners
    and eCommerce channels. Our products are available to customers
    through our eCommerce platform, distributors, direct marketers,
    Internet-based resellers, system builders, ISPs and more than
    30,000 retail locations worldwide. We have partnerships with 9
    of the top 10 PC OEMs globally to distribute our Internet
    security suites and with 6 of the top 10 PC OEMs globally to
    distribute our online backup offerings.



Consumer sales through our electronic distribution channel,
    which includes our Nortone-Store,OEMs, subscriptions, upgrades, and renewals, represented
    approximately 85 percent of consumer revenue in fiscal
    2011. The remaining 15 percent of consumer sales came from
    the retail channel.



Enterprise



We sell and market our products and related services to
    enterprise customers through our direct sales force of more than
    4,500 sales representatives and through a variety of indirect
    sales channels, which include value-added resellers, large
    account resellers, and system integrators. We also sell our
    products to businesses in more than





191 countries through authorized distributors and OEMs who
    incorporate our technologies into their products, bundle our
    products with their offerings, or serve as authorized resellers
    of our products. Symantec has nearly 300 distribution partners
    in its partner program worldwide. Our sales efforts are
    primarily targeted to senior executives and IT department
    personnel responsible for managing a company’s IT
    initiatives.



Marketing
    and Advertising



Based on the acquired VeriSign check mark, Symantec rebranded
    its logo, which unified the company brand, Norton and
    Symantec.cloud brands. The new logos are designed to identify
    our company to both consumers and businesses.



Our marketing expenditures relate primarily to advertising and
    promotion, which includes demand generation and product brand
    recognition. Our advertising and promotion efforts include,
    among other things, electronic and print advertising, trade
    shows, collateral production, and all forms of direct marketing.
    We also invest in cooperative marketing campaigns with
    distributors, resellers, retailers, OEMs, and industry partners.



We invest in various retention marketing and customer loyalty
    programs to help drive renewals and encourage customer advocacy
    and referrals. We also provide focused vertical marketing
    programs in targeted industries and countries.



We typically offer two types of rebate programs within most
    countries: volume incentive rebates to channel partners and
    promotional rebates to distributors and end users. Distributors
    and resellers earn volume incentive rebates primarily based upon
    the amount of product sales to end users. We also offer rebates
    to end users who purchase products through various resale
    channels. Both volume incentive rebates and end-user rebates are
    accrued as an offset to revenue.



Research
    and Development



Symantec embraces a global research and development
    (“R&D”) strategy to drive organic innovation.
    Engineers and researchers throughout the company pursue advanced
    projects to translate R&D into customer solutions by
    creating new technologies and integrating our unique set of
    technology assets. Symantec focuses on short, medium, and
    long-term applied research, develops new products in emerging
    areas, participates in government-funded research projects,
    drives industry standards and partners with universities to
    conduct research supporting Symantec’s strategy.



Symantec’s Security Technology and Response organization is
    a global team of security engineers, threat analysts, and
    researchers that provides the underlying functionality, content,
    and support for all enterprise, SMB and consumer security
    products. Our security experts monitor malicious code reports
    collected through the Global Intelligence Network to provide
    insight into emerging attacks, malicious code activity,
    phishing, spam, and other threats. The team uses this vast
    intelligence to develop new technologies and approaches, such as
    Symantec’s reputation-based security technology, to protect
    customer information.



Research and development expenses, exclusive of in-process
    research and development associated with acquisitions, were
    $862 million, $857 million and $870 million in
    fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing
    approximately 14%, 14% and 14% of revenue in the respective
    periods. We believe that technical leadership is essential to
    our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial
    resources to research and development.



Support



Symantec has centralized support facilities throughout the
    world, staffed by technical product experts knowledgeable in the
    operating environments in which our products are deployed. Our
    technical support experts assist customers with issue resolution
    and threat detection.



Our consumer product support program provides self-help online
    services, phone, chat, and email support to consumers worldwide.
    Customers that subscribe to LiveUpdate receive automatic
    downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug
    fixes, and patches for most of our consumer products.





We provide customers various levels of enterprise support
    offerings. Our enterprise security support program offers annual
    maintenance support contracts, including content, upgrades, and
    technical support. Our standard technical support includes:
    self-service options, delivered by telephone or electronically,
    during the contracted-for hours, immediate patches for severe
    problems; periodic software updates; and access to our technical
    knowledge base and frequently asked questions.



Customers



In fiscal 2011 and 2010 one distributor, Ingram Micro, accounted
    for 10% of our total net revenue in both periods. Our
    distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of several
    non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with its
    subsidiaries, each of which cover different countries or
    regions. Each of these agreements is separately negotiated and
    is independent of any other contract (such as a master
    distribution agreement), and these agreements are not based on
    the same form of contract. In fiscal 2009 one reseller, Digital
    River, accounted for 10% of our total net revenue. In fiscal
    2010, we launched an internally-developed eCommerce platform
    which has reduced our reliance on Digital River.



Acquisitions



Our acquisitions are designed to enhance the features and
    functionality of our existing products and extend our product
    leadership in core markets. We consider time to market,
    synergies with existing products, and potential market share
    gains when evaluating the economics of acquisitions of
    technologies, product lines, or companies. We may acquireand/ordispose of other technologies, products and companies in the
    future.



During fiscal 2011, we completed the following significant
    acquisitions:



Company NameCompany DescriptionDate AcquiredVeriSign, Inc. (identity and authentication business assets)Identity and authentication business assets purchaseAugust 9, 2010PGP CorporationA nonpublic provider of email and data encryption softwareJune 4, 2010GuardianEdge Technologies, Inc.A nonpublic provider of email and data encryption softwareJune 3, 2010





For further discussion of our acquisitions, see Note 3 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual
    report.



Competition



Our markets are consolidating, highly competitive, and subject
    to rapid changes in technology. We are focused on integration
    across the product portfolio and are including next-generation
    technology capabilities into our solution set to differentiate
    ourselves from the competition. We believe that the principal
    competitive factors necessary to be successful in our industry
    include time to market, price, reputation, financial stability,
    breadth of product offerings, customer support, brand
    recognition, and effective sales and marketing efforts.



In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors,
    we face indirect or potential competition from retailers,
    application providers, operating system providers, network
    equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs, who may provide various
    solutions and functions in their current and future products. We
    also compete for access to retail distribution channels and for
    spending at the retail level and in corporate accounts. In
    addition, we compete with other software companies, operating
    system providers, network equipment manufacturers and other OEMs
    to acquire technologies, products, or companies and to publish
    software developed by third parties. We also compete with other
    software companies in our effort to place our products on the
    computer equipment sold to consumers and enterprises by OEMs.



The competitive environments in which each segment operates are
    described below.





Consumer



Some of the channels in which our consumer products are offered
    are highly competitive. Our competitors are intensely focused on
    customer acquisition, which has led such competitors to offer
    their technology for free, engage in aggressive marketing, or
    enter into competitive partnerships. Our primary competitors in
    the Consumer segment are McAfee, Inc., (“MFE”) owned
    by Intel Corporation, and Trend Micro Inc. (“Trend
    Micro”). There are also several smaller regional security
    companies and freeware providers that we compete against
    primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions. For our consumer backup
    offerings, our primary competitors are Carbonite, Inc., and
    Mozy, Inc., owned by EMC Corporation (“EMC”).



Security
    and Compliance



In the security and management markets, we compete against many
    companies that offer competing products to our solutions. Our
    primary competitors in the security and management market are
    LANDesk Software, Inc., MFE, Microsoft Corporation
    (“Microsoft”), and Trend Micro. There are also several
    smaller regional security companies that we compete against
    primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions. In the authentication
    services market our primary competitors are RSA, the security
    division of EMC, Entrust, Inc., Comodo Group, Inc., and
    GoDaddy.com, Inc.



In the SaaS security market our primary competitors are Google
    Inc.’s Postini Services and Microsoft.



Storage
    and Server Management



The markets for storage management and backup are intensely
    competitive. Our primary competitors are CA, Inc., CommVault
    Systems, Inc., EMC, Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”),
    International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”),
    Microsoft and Sun Microsystems, Inc., owned by Oracle
    Corporation.



Services



We believe that the principal competitive factors for our
    Services segment include technical capability, customer
    responsiveness, and our ability to hire and retain talented and
    experienced services personnel. Our primary competitors in the
    managed services business are IBM, and SecureWorks, Inc., owned
    by Dell, Inc.



Intellectual
    Property



Protective
    Measures



We regard some of the features of our internal operations,
    software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on
    copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws,
    confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other
    measures to protect our proprietary information. Our
    intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that
    enables us to gain recognition for our products, services, and
    technology and enhance our competitive position.



As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter
    into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors,
    and corporate partners, and we enter into license agreements
    with respect to our software, documentation, and other
    proprietary information. These license agreements are generally
    non-transferable and have a perpetual term. We also educate our
    employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to
    protect our facilities, equipment, and networks.



Trademarks,
    Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses



Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered
    trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to
    Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered,and/orapplied to register other specific trademarks and service marks
    to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services
    from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign
    countries and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service
    mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The
    duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to
    country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to maintain
    our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for
    as long as the trademarks are in use.





We have more than 1,200 U.S. or foreign issued patents and
    pending patent applications, including patents and rights to
    patent applications acquired through strategic transactions,
    which relate to various aspects of our products and technology.
    The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the
    country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically
    17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or
    20 years from the date of filing of the patent application
    resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative
    to the expected lives of our products.



Our products are protected under U.S. and international
    copyright laws and laws related to the protection of
    intellectual property and proprietary information. We take
    measures to label such products with the appropriate proprietary
    rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the
    U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide
    sufficient protection, and our intellectual property rights may
    be challenged. In addition, we license some intellectual
    property from third parties for use in our products, and
    generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed
    intellectual property rights. While we believe that our ability
    to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is
    important to our success, we also believe that our business as a
    whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent,
    trademark, license, or other intellectual property right.



Seasonality



As is typical for many large software companies, our business is
    seasonal. Software license and maintenance orders are generally
    higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our
    first and second fiscal quarters. A significant decline in
    license and maintenance orders is typical in the first quarter
    of our fiscal year as compared to license and maintenance orders
    in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. In addition, we
    generally receive a higher volume of software license and
    maintenance orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders
    concentrated in the later part of that month. We believe that
    this seasonality primarily reflects customer spending patterns
    and budget cycles, as well as the impact of compensation
    incentive plans for our sales personnel. Revenue generally
    reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a lesser extent than
    orders because revenue is not recognized until an order is
    shipped or services are performed and other revenue recognition
    criteria are met, and because a significant portion of our
    in-period revenue is provided by the ratable recognition of our
    deferred revenue balance.



Employees



As of April 1, 2011, we employed more than
    18,600 people worldwide, approximately 46 percent of
    whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 6,700 employees
    work in sales and marketing; 6,200 in research and development;
    4,200 in support and services; and 1,500 in management,
    manufacturing, and administration.



Other
    Information



Our Internet address iswww.symantec.com.We make
    available free of charge on our website our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”). Other than the information
    expressly set forth in this annual report, the information
    contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this
    annual report.



The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may
    obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
    by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.The SEC also maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers, such as us, that file
    electronically with the SEC.



