Item 1.Business



Overview



Symantec is a global provider of security, storage, and systems
    management solutions that help businesses and consumers secure
    and manage their information. We conduct our business in three
    geographic regions: Americas, which is comprised of the United
    States, Canada, and Latin America; Europe, the Middle East and
    Africa (“EMEA”); and Asia Pacific Japan
    (“APJ”).



Ourgo-to-marketnetwork includes direct, inside, and channel sales resources
    that support our ecosystem of more than 40,000 partners
    worldwide. We also maintain various distribution and services
    relationships with original equipment manufacturers
    (“OEMs”), Internet service providers
    (“ISPs”), and retail and online stores. We provide
    customers with software and services that protect, manage, and
    control information risks related to security, backup and
    recovery, storage, compliance, and systems management.



Founded in 1982, Symantec has operations in more than 40
    countries and our principal executive offices are located at 350
    Ellis Street, Mountain View, California, 94043. Our telephone
    number at that location is(650) 527-8000.Our home page on the Internet iswww.symantec.com.Other
    than the information expressly set forth in this annual report,
    the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not
    part of this annual report.



Strategy



Symantec’s strategy is to provide software and services to
    secure and manage information regardless of device, platform, or
    where it resides. We help individuals, small businesses, and
    global organizations ensure that their information, technology
    infrastructures, and related processes are protected, managed
    easily, and controlled automatically. In addition to providing
    customers with traditional software solutions, we continue to
    expand our Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) based
    solutions and appliance based solutions, giving customers the
    choice for how they secure and manage information.



We operate primarily in three diversified markets within the
    software sector: security, storage, and systems management. We
    believe these markets are converging as customers increasingly
    require our help mitigating their risk profiles and managing
    their storage needs in order to secure and manage their most
    valuable asset — information. We have taken a
    proactive and policy-driven approach to protecting and managing
    information as the tools and processes from these formerly
    discrete domains become more integrated.



The security market includes mission-critical products that
    protect consumers and enterprises from threats to electronic
    information, endpoint devices, and computer networks. Over the
    past year, we have seen a continued rise in the volume of
    security threats. Threats are continuing to grow more targeted
    with a focus on stealing confidential information for financial
    gain. Attackers are expanding their tactics to include targeting
    users with social-engineering attacks, such as phishing websites
    that steal financial information, passwords, and other personal
    data. The Internet has become the primary conduit for attack
    activity with hackers increasingly funneling threats through
    legitimate websites, placing a much larger percentage of the
    population at risk than in the past. Data losses are not
    realized solely from external attacks but are increasingly
    administered by malicious or well-meaning insiders. Security
    continues to be a top priority for enterprises as information
    security is increasingly relevant to corporate competitiveness,
    regulatory compliance, cloud computing, and the proliferation of
    mobile devices.



The storage software market includes products that manage,
    archive, backup, and recover business-critical data. Key drivers
    of demand in this market include the growth of information that
    organizations must manage, the need for data to be protected and
    accessible at all times, the transition from tape to disk-based
    backup, and the adoption of data deduplication technology. Other
    factors driving demand in this market include the pressure on
    companies to lower storage and server management costs without
    compromising performance and the need for a growing number of
    critical applications to be continuously available.





The systems management market includes products that control the
    IT environment by streamlining efforts associated with
    deploying, managing, patching, and remediating enterprise client
    and server assets. The drivers for demand in this market include
    customers’ desire to automate management and security
    remediation tasks, to ensure business productivity, and to
    reduce costs and complexity.



Business
    Developments and Highlights



During fiscal 2010, we took the following actions in support of
    our business:





•We strengthened our leadership in security. We introduced our
    new reputation-based malware detection security technology in
    our 2010 Consumer products. This technology leverages data from
    our extensive Global Intelligence Network to derive safety
    ratings for files on the Internet, and allows us to establish
    the reputation of a program based on a number of different
    factors (including its origin, age, and prevalence). We also
    launched security products and suites designed specifically for
    the small and medium sized business (“SMB”) and
    enterprise markets. These products are easy to use and install,
    and provide easy to use enterprise-level protection that
    optimizes performance and offers simplified management
    capabilities and pre-configured settings.



•We focused on the migration to next-generation information
    management. We integrated our backup, archiving and
    deduplication technologies and expanded our multi-platform
    support for physical and virtual environments. We released
    updated backup products that include expanded deduplication
    capabilities (at the client, media server, and via third party
    appliances), which products will allow customers to reduce the
    amount of data they store and the volume of data they transmit
    on their networks. We enhanced our products’ support for
    VMware and Microsoft Hyper-V virtualization technologies in
    order to allow customers to reduce management complexity and
    operational costs in their virtual environments. We introduced
    our new Data Insight technology to help customers identify their
    most critical information and give users access to data based on
    information intelligence and ownership.



•We expanded our cloud based offerings. We extended the partner
    distribution network associated with our Symantec Hosted
    Services business, primarily in SaaS messaging and web security.
    We launched a new hosted medical image archiving and sharing
    solution for healthcare providers that is designed to help them
    lower image storage costs and provide secure, web-based image
    sharing. In addition, we developed a scalable file server
    solution that combines our file system and clustering
    technologies, and integrates our security and backup software in
    order to deliver an optimized infrastructure for public or
    private storage clouds. We also expanded distribution of our
    consumer online backup solution through various channel partners.



•We completed two acquisitions during fiscal 2010. We expanded
    our SaaS security leadership by acquiring SoftScan, a
    privately-held SaaS security company in the Nordic region. We
    also acquired privately-held Gideon Technologies, Inc., a
    company with a leading Security Content Automation Protocol
    (“SCAP”) validated configuration and vulnerability
    assessment solution to enhance our ability to serve the needs of
    public sector customers.



•We reduced our cost structure in order to improve operational
    efficiencies across our business. Some of the actions included:
    carefully managing our headcount costs; outsourcing certain back
    office functions; consolidating facilities; relocating certain
    research and development functions to lower cost locations; and
    reducing travel and entertainment expenses and other
    discretionary expenses. Offsetting these cost reductions were
    investments in our new Symantec-developed and operated consumer
    eCommerce platform, increased investments in certain consumer
    OEM distribution agreements and acquisition related expenses.



•We launched a global eCommerce platform which allows us to host
    and manage consumer online stores. This is a strategic move,
    consistent with our ongoing focus on eCommerce and SaaS, in
    support of our consumer business. The benefits of managing an
    in-house eCommerce capability include building a closer
    relationship with our customers and enabling greater speed and
    agility to take advantage of market trends.



•We repurchased 34 million shares of our common stock for an
    aggregate amount of $553 million.







Operating
    Segments and Products



Our operating segments are significant strategic business units
    that offer different products and services, distinguished by
    customer needs. During fiscal 2010, we had five operating
    segments: Consumer, Security and Compliance, Storage and Server
    Management, Services, and Other.



Consumer



Our Consumer segment provides Internet security and protection
    solutions, suites and services to individual users and home
    offices through a dual-brand strategy with
    Nortontmand PC
    Toolstm.

    Our Norton brand offers premium, full-featured security suites
    as well as related services such as online backup, family
    safety, and PCtune-upacross multiple platforms. PC Tools products are designed
    specifically for the value-minded consumer which allows Symantec
    to extend its reach into emerging and price-sensitive market
    segments. Products include: Norton
    360tm,

    Norton Internet
    Securitytm,

    Norton
    AntiVirustm,

    Norton Online
    Backuptm,

    PC Tools Spyware
    Doctortm,

    and PC Tools Registry
    Mechanictm.



Our consumer business is driven by increasingly complex threats,
    the proliferation of mobile devices, the need for identity
    protection, and the rapid increase of digital consumer data,
    such as photos, music, and video. Our award-winning Norton 2010
    products include our innovative reputation-based security, a
    technology that provides real-time threat detection. Our online
    backup offering serves 12 million customers and hosts over
    56 petabytes of consumers’ data.



We continue to acquire customers through a diversified channel
    strategy. In fiscal year 2010, Symantec introduced its own
    eCommerce platform to enhance customer’send-to-endexperience and capitalize on emerging market trends. We retain
    and leverage our strong existing customer base through
    auto-renewal subscriptions, migrating customers from point
    products to multi-product suites, and cross-selling additional
    products or services.



Security
    and Compliance



Our Security and Compliance segment helps our customers
    standardize, automate, and reduce the costs ofday-to-daysecurity activities in order to secure and manage their
    information. We have focused on offering security suite
    solutions that tie together multiple layers of protection and
    simplified management. Our primary solutions in this segment
    address the following areas:



Enterprise
    Security



Enterprise Security customer demand is driven by the evolving
    threat environment, the adoption of a content-aware approach to
    information protection, and the need to implement and ensure
    regulatory compliance. Our Symantec Protection Suite creates a
    protected endpoint, messaging, and Web environment that is
    secure against today’s complex malware, data loss and spam
    threats, and recovers endpoint data in the event of failure. Our
    Symantec Data Loss Prevention Suite helps companies understand
    where important information resides and helps ensure the
    appropriate access and movement of information into and out of
    the company. Our Symantec Control Compliance Suite allows
    businesses to prioritize risks, define and assess global IT
    policies, and remediate identified deficiencies.



Systems
    Management



Demand for Systems Management is driven by the need for
    automated asset management, patch management, and remediation
    solutions that offer better visibility into IT assets and
    simplifyday-to-dayoperational management. Our solutions help companies realize
    value from their existing IT investments. Our Altiris IT
    Management Suite provides client, server and asset management
    with full service desk and automation capabilities that reduce
    IT costs and enhance IT effectiveness.



SaaS



Symantec Hosted Services, our SaaS offerings, enable customers
    to increase their messaging and web protection by blocking
    email, web and IM threats before they reach the network. Our
    SaaS security solutions





simplify global management through use of a central portal. Our
    SaaS offerings provide our customers the flexibility to manage
    their business using hosted services or through a mix of onsite
    and hosted solutions. Products include: MessageLabs Hosted
    Email, Web and Instant Messaging Security.



Storage
    and Server Management



Our Storage and Server Management segment focuses on providing
    enterprise customers with storage management, high availability,
    and backup and archiving solutions across heterogeneous storage
    and server platforms. These solutions enable companies to
    standardize on a single layer of infrastructure software that
    works on every major distributed operating system and supports
    every major storage device, database, and application in both
    physical and virtual environments. Our primary storage and
    server management solutions address the following areas:



Information
    Management



Our Information Management business, which includes backup and
    archiving, is driven by the rapid growth of information, data
    duplication, virtual environments, management inefficiencies,
    and legale-discoveryneeds. Symantec helps organizations protect themselves by
    bringing together archiving, deduplication, and backup
    functionality into a fully integrated solution. Symantec helps
    customers back up information and deduplicate closer to
    information sources in order to reduce storage consumption as
    well as archive and enable a compliant and litigation-ready
    information infrastructure. Products include:
    NetBackuptm,

    NetBackup
    PureDisktm,

    Backup
    Exectmand Enterprise
    Vaulttm.



Storage
    Management and High Availability



Our Storage Management and High Availability business is driven
    by our customers’ need to reduce overall storage costs
    through improved utilization of existing systems,
    virtualization, and cloud infrastructure offerings. The decline
    in server sales put pressure on this business, particularly with
    respect to new license sales on the Solaris platform. Our
    products help customers simplify their data centers by
    standardizing storage management across their environment for
    more efficient use of their existing storage investment. In
    addition, these products help customers build scalable,
    high-performance file-based storage systems for their
    enterprise, including private and public clouds. They also
    enable enterprises to manage large storage environments and
    ensure the availability of critical applications. Products
    include: Veritas Storage
    Foundationtm,

    Veritas Cluster
    Servertm,

    and Symantec
    FileStoretm.



Services



Symantec Global Services help customers address information
    security, availability, storage, and compliance challenges at
    the endpoint and in complex, multi-vendor data center
    environments. Our Services segment delivers consulting,
    education, business critical, and managed services that help our
    customers maximize the value of their investment in our products
    and solutions.



Consulting,
    Education and Business Critical Services



Symantec Consulting Services provide advisory, product
    enablement, and residency services to enable customers to
    assess, design, transform, and operate their infrastructure,
    leveraging Symantec products and solutions. Education Services
    provide a full range of programs, including technical training
    and security awareness training, to help customers optimize
    their Symantec solutions. Business Critical Services, our
    highest level of service, provide personalized, proactive
    support from technical experts for enterprises that require
    secure, uninterrupted access to their data and applications.



Managed
    Services



Symantec Managed Services enable customers to place
    resource-intensive IT operations under the management of
    experienced Symantec specialists in order to optimize existing
    resources and focus on strategic IT projects. This helps
    customers by reducing IT complexity, managing IT risk, and
    lowering the cost of operations. These





services include: Managed Security Services, Managed Endpoint
    Protection Services and Managed Backup Services.



Other



The Other segment includes sunset products and general
    administrative, unallocated costs and is not considered an
    active business component of the company.



Financial
    Information by Segment and Geographic Region



For information regarding our revenue by segment, revenue by
    geographical area, and long-lived assets by geographical area,
    see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in this annual report. For information regarding the
    amount and percentage of our revenue contributed in each of our
    segments and our financial information, including information
    about geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7,Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results ofOperations and Note 11 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual
    report. For information regarding risks associated with our
    international operations, see Item 1A,Risk Factors.



Sales andGo-To-MarketStrategy



Consumer



We sell our consumer products and services to individuals and
    home offices globally through a network of distribution partners
    and eCommerce channels. Our products are available to customers
    through retailers, distributors, direct marketers,
    Internet-based resellers, system builders, and ISPs. We have
    partnerships with nine of the top 10 OEMs globally to distribute
    our securities suites and with six of the top 10 OEMs globally
    to distribute our online backup product. We broadened our
    presence in retail stores, with our products now carried in more
    than 30,000 locations worldwide.



Sales in the Consumer business through our electronic
    distribution channel, which includes sales derived from OEMs,
    subscriptions, upgrades, online sales, and renewals, represented
    approximately 80 percent of revenue in the Consumer segment
    in fiscal 2010. Products are also available through our new
    global in-house eCommerce stores, which improves our ability to
    identify and capitalize on emerging customer needs and market
    trends as well as enhance theend-to-endcustomer experience.



Enterprise



We sell and market our products and related services to
    enterprise customers through our direct sales force of more than
    3,500 sales representatives and through a variety of indirect
    sales channels, which include value-added resellers, large
    account resellers, and system integrators. We also sell our
    products in more than 40 countries through authorized
    distributors and OEMs who incorporate our technologies into
    their products, bundle our products with their offerings, or
    serve as authorized resellers of our products. Symantec has more
    than 40,000 distribution partners in its partner program
    worldwide. Our sales efforts are primarily targeted to senior
    executives and IT department personnel responsible for managing
    a company’s IT initiatives.



Marketing
    and Advertising



Our marketing expenditures relate primarily to advertising and
    promotion, which includes demand generation and brand
    recognition of our consumer and enterprise products. Our
    advertising and promotion efforts include, but are not limited
    to, electronic and print advertising, trade shows, collateral
    production, and all forms of direct marketing. We also invest in
    cooperative marketing campaigns with distributors, resellers,
    retailers, OEMs, and industry partners.



We invest in various retention marketing and customer loyalty
    programs to help drive renewals and encourage customer advocacy
    and referrals. We also provide focused vertical marketing
    programs in targeted industries and countries.





We typically offer two types of rebate programs within most
    countries: volume incentive rebates to channel partners and
    promotional rebates to distributors and end users. Distributors
    and resellers earn volume incentive rebates primarily based upon
    product sales to end users. We also offer rebates to individual
    users who purchase products through various resale channels.
    Both volume incentive rebates and end-user rebates are accrued
    as an offset to revenue.



Research
    and Development



Symantec embraces a global research and development
    (“R&D”) strategy to drive organic innovation
    across the company. Engineers throughout the company pursue
    advanced projects and work with our engineering centers,
    research labs and global services teams to translate R&D
    into next-generation technologies and integrate our unique set
    of technology assets across the portfolio. Symantec focuses on
    short, medium, and long-term applied research, develops new
    products in emerging areas, participates in government-funded
    research projects, and partners with universities to conduct
    research to support Symantec’s strategy. Symantec holds
    more than 900 patents.



Symantec’s Security Technology and Response organization is
    a global team of security engineers, threat analysts, and
    researchers that provides the underlying functionality, content,
    and support for all Symantec enterprise, SMB and consumer
    security products. Symantec’s security experts monitor
    malicious code reports collected through the Global Intelligence
    Network to provide insight into emerging attacks, malicious code
    activity, phishing, spam, and other threats. The team uses this
    vast intelligence to develop new technologies and approaches,
    such as Symantec’s reputation-based security technology, to
    protect customer’s information.



Research and development expenses, exclusive of in-process
    research and development associated with acquisitions, were
    $857 million, $870 million and $895 million in
    fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing
    approximately 14%, 14% and 15% of revenue in the respective
    periods. We believe that technical leadership is essential to
    our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial
    resources to research and development.



Support



Symantec has centralized support facilities throughout the world
    that provide rapid,around-the-clockresponse, and are staffed by technical product experts
    knowledgeable in the operating environments in which our
    products are deployed. Our technical support experts assist
    customers with product implementation and usage, issue
    resolution and countermeasures, and threat detection.



Symantec provides customers various levels of enterprise support
    offerings. Our enterprise security support program offers annual
    maintenance support contracts, including content, upgrades, and
    technical support. Our standard technical support includes:
    unlimited hotline service delivered by telephone, fax, email,
    and over the Internet; immediate patches for severe problems;
    periodic software updates; and access to our technical knowledge
    base and frequently asked questions.



Our consumer product support program provides self-help online
    services, phone, chat, email support, and fee-based premium
    support and diagnostic services to consumers worldwide.
    Customers that subscribe to LiveUpdate receive automatic
    downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug
    fixes, and patches for most of our consumer products.



Customers



In fiscal 2010 and 2008, one distributor, Ingram Micro accounted
    for 10% of our total net revenue in both periods. In fiscal
    2009, Ingram Micro did not account for 10% of total net revenue.
    Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of
    several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with
    its subsidiaries, each of which cover different countries or
    regions. Each of these agreements is separately negotiated and
    is independent of any other contract (such as a master
    distribution agreement), and these agreements are not based on
    the same form of contract. In fiscal 2009 and 2008, one
    reseller, Digital River accounted for 10% and 11% of our total
    net revenues, respectively. In fiscal 2010, we launched a new,
    internally-developed eCommerce platform which will reduce our
    reliance on Digital River.





Acquisitions



Our acquisitions are designed to enhance the features and
    functionality of our existing products and extend our product
    leadership in core markets. We consider time to market,
    synergies with existing products, and potential market share
    gains when evaluating the economics of acquisitions of
    technologies, product lines, or companies. We may acquireand/ordispose of other technologies, products and companies in the
    future.



During fiscal 2010, we completed the following acquisitions:



Company NameCompany DescriptionDate AcquiredGideon Technologies, Inc.A provider of standards-based information security compliance
    solutionsJanuary 22, 2010SoftScanA provider of hosted security solutions for e-mail and web in
    the Nordic region.October 31, 2009





For further discussion of our acquisitions, see Note 4 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual
    report.



Competition



Our markets are consolidating, highly competitive, and subject
    to rapid changes in technology. We are focused on integrating
    across the product portfolio and include next-generation
    technology capabilities into our solution set in order to
    differentiate ourselves from the competition. We believe that
    the principal competitive factors necessary to be successful in
    our industry include time to market, price, reputation,
    financial stability, breadth of product offerings, customer
    support, brand recognition, and effective sales and marketing
    efforts.



In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors,
    we face indirect or potential competition from retailers,
    application providers, operating system providers, network
    equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs, who may provide various
    solutions and functions in their current and future products. We
    also compete for access to retail distribution channels and for
    the attention of customers at the retail level and in corporate
    accounts. In addition, we compete with other software companies,
    operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers and
    other OEMs to acquire technologies, products, or companies and
    to publish software developed by third parties. We also compete
    with other software companies in our effort to place our
    products on the computer equipment sold to consumers and
    enterprises by OEMs.



The competitive environments in which each segment operates are
    described below.



Consumer



Some of the channels in which our consumer products are offered
    are highly competitive. Our competitors are intensely focused on
    customer acquisition, which has led such competitors to offer
    their technology for free, engage in aggressive marketing, or
    enter into competitive partnerships. Our primary competitors in
    the Consumer segment are McAfee, Inc. (“McAfee”), and
    Trend Micro Inc. (“Trend Micro”). There are also
    several smaller regional security companies and freeware
    providers that we compete against primarily in the EMEA and APJ
    regions. For our consumer backup offerings, our primary
    competitors are Mozy, Inc., owned by EMC Corporation
    (“EMC”), and Carbonite, Inc.



Security
    and Compliance



In the security and management markets, we compete against many
    companies that offer competing products to our solutions. Our
    primary competitors in the security and management market are
    LANDesk Software, Inc., McAfee, Microsoft Corporation
    (“Microsoft”), and Trend Micro. There are also several
    smaller regional security companies that we compete against
    primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions.



In the SaaS security market our primary competitors are Google
    Inc.’s Postini Services and Microsoft.





Storage
    and Server Management



The markets for storage and backup are intensely competitive.
    Our primary competitors are CA, Inc., CommVault Systems, Inc.,
    EMC, Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”), IBM Corp.
    (“IBM”), Microsoft, Sun Microsystems, Inc. (acquired
    by Oracle Corporation), and VMware, Inc.



Services



We believe that the principal competitive factors for our
    services segment include technical capability, customer
    responsiveness, and our ability to hire and retain talented and
    experienced services personnel. Our primary competitors in the
    services segment are EMC, HP, IBM, and regional specialized
    consulting firms. In the managed security services business, our
    primary competitors are IBM, and SecureWorks, Inc.



Intellectual
    Property



Protective
    Measures



We regard some of the features of our internal operations,
    software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on
    copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws,
    confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other
    measures to protect our proprietary information. Our
    intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that
    enables us to gain recognition for our products, services, and
    technology and enhance our competitive position.



As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter
    into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors,
    and corporate partners, and we enter into license agreements
    with respect to our software, documentation, and other
    proprietary information. These license agreements are generally
    non-transferable and have a perpetual term. We also educate our
    employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to
    protect our facilities, equipment, and networks.



Trademarks,
    Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses



Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered
    trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to
    Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered,and/orapplied to register other specific trademarks and service marks
    to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services
    from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign
    countries and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service
    mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The
    duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to
    country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to maintain
    our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for
    as long as the trademarks are in use.



We have a number of U.S. and foreign issued patents and
    pending patent applications, including patents and rights to
    patent applications acquired through strategic transactions,
    which relate to various aspects of our products and technology.
    The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the
    country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically
    17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or
    20 years from the date of filing of the patent application
    resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative
    to the expected lives of our products.



Our products are protected under U.S. and international
    copyright laws and laws related to the protection of
    intellectual property and proprietary information. We take
    measures to label such products with the appropriate proprietary
    rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the
    U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide
    sufficient protection, and our intellectual property rights may
    be challenged. In addition, we license some intellectual
    property from third parties for use in our products, and
    generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed
    intellectual property rights. While we believe that our ability
    to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is
    important to our success, we also believe that our business as a
    whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent,
    trademark, license, or other intellectual property right.



Seasonality



As is typical for many large software companies, our business is
    seasonal. Software license and maintenance orders are generally
    higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our
    first and second fiscal quarters. A





significant decline in license and maintenance orders is typical
    in the first quarter of our fiscal year as compared to license
    and maintenance orders in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal
    year. In addition, we generally receive a higher volume of
    software license and maintenance orders in the last month of a
    quarter, with orders concentrated in the later part of that
    month. We believe that this seasonality primarily reflects
    customer spending patterns and budget cycles, as well as the
    impact of compensation incentive plans for our sales personnel.
    Revenue generally reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a
    lesser extent than orders because revenue is not recognized
    until an order is shipped or services are performed and other
    revenue recognition criteria are met, and because a significant
    portion of our in-period revenue is provided by the ratable
    recognition of our deferred revenue balance.



Employees



As of April 2, 2010, we employed more than
    17,400 people worldwide, approximately 47 percent of
    whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 6,200 employees
    work in sales and marketing; 5,600 in research and development;
    4,200 in support and services; and 1,400 in management and
    administration.



Other
    Information



Our Internet address iswww.symantec.com.We make
    available free of charge on our website our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”). Other than the information
    expressly set forth in this annual report, the information
    contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this
    annual report.



The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC
    20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the
    Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.The SEC also maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers, such as us, that file
    electronically with the SEC.



