10-K


syy-20130629x10k.htm

10-K

67ed01e6d56f43c

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

________________

Form 10-K

Commission File Number 1-6544

________________

Sysco Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code:

(281) 584-1390

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of each exchange on

which registered

Common Stock, $1.00 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by checkmark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes

R

No

£

Indicate by checkmark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes

£

No

R

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes

R

No

£

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant  has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).

Yes

R

No

£

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

£

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer

or a smaller reporting company.

See definition of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large Accelerated Filer

R

Accelerated Filer

£

Non-accelerated Filer

£

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller Reporting Company

£

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes

£

No

R

The aggregate market value of the voting stock of the registrant held by stockholders who were not affiliates (as defined by regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission) of the registrant was approximately $

18,334,353,000

as of

December 29, 2012

(based on the closing sales price on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape on

December 28, 2012

, as reported by The Wall Street Journal (Southwest Edition)).

As of

August 14, 2013, th

e registrant had issued and outstanding an a

ggregate of

588,347

,435

shares

of its common stock.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Portions of the company’s


Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K are incorporated by reference into Part III.


PART I

Item 1.

Business

Unless this Form 10-K indicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Sysco,” or “the

company” as used in this Form 10-K refer to Sysco Corporation together with its consolidated subsidiaries and divisions.

Overview

Sysco Corporation, acting through its subsidiaries and divisions, is the largest North American distributor of food and related products primarily to the

foodservice or food-away-from-home industry.  We provide products and related services to approximately 425,000

customers

, including restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging

establishments and other foodservice customers.

Founded in 1969, Sysco

commenced operations as a public company in March 1970 when the stockholders of nine companies exchanged their stock for Sysco common stock.  Since our formation, we have grown

from $115.0 million

to

$

44.4

billion

in annual sales, both through internal expansion of existing operations and through acquisitions.

Sysco’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30

th

.  This resulted in a 52-week year ending

June 29, 2013 for fiscal 2013

,

June 30, 2012

for fiscal


and

,

July 2, 2011

for

fiscal 2011

.

Sysco Corporation is organized under the laws of Delaware.  The address and telephone number of our executive offices are 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099, (281) 584-1390.  This annual report on Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed or furnished by Sysco pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on Sysco’s website at

www.sysco.com

as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Operating Segments

Sysco provides food and related products to the foodservice or food-away-from-home industry.  Under the accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise, we have aggregated our operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined by accounting standards.  Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to their customers.  SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to chain restaurant customer locations.  Our other segments include our specialty produce and lodging industry products segments, a company that distributes specialty imported products and a company that distributes to international customers.  Specialty produce companies distribute fresh produce and, on a limited basis, other foodservice products.  Our lodging industry products company distributes personal care guest amenities, equipment, housekeeping supplies, room accessories and textiles to the lodging industry.  Selected financial data for each of our reportable segments as well as financial information concerning geographic areas can be found

in

Note

21,

“Business

Segment Information,

”

in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

Customers and Products

Sysco’s customers in the foodservice industry include restaurants, hospitals and nursing homes, schools and colleges, hotels and motels, industrial caterers and other similar venues where foodservice products are served.  Services to our customers are supported by similar physical facilities, vehicles, material handling equipment and techniques, and administrative and operating staffs.

The products we distribute include:

·

a full line of frozen foods, such as meats, seafood, fully prepared entrees, fruits, vegetables and desserts;

·

a full line of canned and dry foods;

·

fresh meats and seafood;

·

dairy products;

·

beverage products;

·

imported specialties; and

·

fresh produce.

We also supply a wide variety of non-food items, including:

·

paper products such as disposable napkins, plates and cups;

·

tableware such as china and silverware;

·

cookware such as pots, pans and utensils;


·

restaurant and kitchen equipment and supplies; and

·

cleaning supplies.

A comparison of the sales mix in the principal product categories during the last three years is presented below:

(1)

Sales are less than 1% of total

Our

distribution centers, which we refer to as

operating companies

,

distribute nationally-branded merchandise, as well as products pac

kaged under our private brands.

Products packaged under our private brands have been manufactured for S

ysco

according to specifications that have been developed by our quality assurance team.  In addition, our quality assurance team certifies the manufacturing and processing plants where these products are packaged, enforces our quality control standards and identifies supply sources that satisfy our requirements.

We believe that prompt and accurate delivery of orders, competitive pricing, close contact with customers and the ability to provide a full array of products and services to assist customers in their foodservice operations are of primary importance in the marketing and distribution of foodservice products to our customers.  Our operating companies offer daily delivery

to certain customer locations and have the capability of delivering

special orders on short notice.

Through our

approximately

12,600

sales and marketing representatives and support staff of Sysco and our operating companies, we stay informed of

the needs of

our customers and acquaint them with new products and services.  Our operating companies also provide ancillary services relating to foodservice distribution, such as providing customers with product usage reports and other data, menu-planning advice, food safety training and assistance in inventory control, as well as access to various third party services designed to add value to our customers’ businesses.

No single customer accounted for 10% or mo

re

of Sysco’s total sales for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2013.

Based upon available information, we estimate that sales by type of customer during the past three fiscal years were as follows:

Sources of Supply

We purchase from thousands of suppliers

,

both domestic and

international,

none of which individually accounts for more than 10% of our purchases

.

These

suppliers consist generally of large corporations selling brand name and private label merchandise, as well as independent regional brand and private label processors and packers.  Purchasing is generally carried out through both centrally developed purchasing programs and direct purchasing programs established by our various operating companies.

We

administer a consolidated product procurement program designed to develop, obtain and ensure consistent qual

ity food and non-food products.

The program covers the purchasing and marketing of Sysco Brand merchandise as well as products from a number of national brand suppliers, encompassing su

bstantially all product lines.

Sysco’s operating companies purchase product from the suppliers participating in

these

consolidated

programs and from other suppliers, although Sysco Brand products are only available to the operating companies through

these consolidated

programs.

We also focus on increasing profitability by lowering operating


costs and by lowering aggregate inventory levels, which reduces future facility expansion needs at our broadline operating companies, while providing greater value to our suppliers and customers.  This includes

the construction and operation of regional distribution centers (RDCs), which aggregate inventory demand to optimize the supply chain activities for certain products for all Sysco broadline operating companies in the region.  Currently

, we have two RDCs in operation, one in Virginia and one in Florida

.

Working Capital Practices

Our growth is funded through a combination of cash flow from operations, commercial paper issuances and long-term borrowings.  See the discussion in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources” at Item 7 regarding our liquidity, financial position and sources and uses of funds.

Credit terms we extend to our customers can vary from cash on delivery to 30 days or more based on our assessment of each customer’s credit worthiness.  We monitor each customer’s account and will suspend shipments if necessary.

A majority of our sales orders are filled within 24 hours of when customer orders are placed.  We generally maintain inventory on hand to be able to meet customer demand.  The level of inventory on hand will vary by product depending on shelf-life, supplier order fulfillment lead times and customer demand.  We also make purchases of additional volumes of certain products based on supply or pricing opportunities.

We take advantage of suppliers’ cash discounts where appropriate and otherwise generally receive payment terms from our suppliers ranging from weekly to 30 days or more.

Corporate Headquarters And Shared Services Center

Our corporate staff makes available a number of services to our operating companies.  Members of the corporate staff possess experience and expertise in, among other areas, accounting and finance, treasury, legal, cash management, information technology, employee benefits, engineering, real estate and construction, risk management and insurance, sales and marketing, payroll, human resources, training and development, strategy, and tax compliance services.  The corporate office also makes available warehousing and distribution services, which provide assistance in operational best practices including space utilization, energy conservation, fleet management and work flow.

Our

shared services center perform

s

support services for employees, suppliers and customers, payroll administration, human resources, customer and vendor contract administration, financial services such as vendor payments, invoicing, cash application, certain credit services, accounting and sales and use tax administration, procurement and maintenance support and sales support for

some of

our operating companies.

Capital Improvements

To maximize productivity and customer service, we continue to modernize, expand and construct new distribution facilities.  During fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011,

approximately $

511.9

million, $

784.5

million and $636.4 million, respectively, were invested in delivery fleet, facilities, technology and other capital asset enhancements.  We

estimate our capital expenditures in fiscal 2014 should be in the

range

of $550 million to $600 million.

During

the three years ended June 29, 2013, capital expenditures

were financed primarily by internally generated funds, our commercial paper program and bank an

d other borrowings.

We expec

t to finance our fiscal 2014 capital expenditures from the same sources.

Employees

As of June 29, 2013, we had

approximately

48,100

full-

time employees,

approximately

17%

of whom

were represented by unions, primarily the

International Brotherhood of Teamsters

.

Contract negotiations are handled

by eac

h individual operating company.

Approximately

35%

of our union

employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements

which

have expired or

will expire during fiscal

2014 and are subject to renegotiation.

Since

June 29, 2013

,

two

contract

s

covering

approximately 300

of such employees

have

been renegotiated.  We consider our labor relations to be s

atisfactory.

Competition

Industry sources estimate that there are more than

15,000 comp

anies engaged in the distribution of food and non-food products to the foodservice industry in the United States.  Our customers may also choose to purchase products directly from retail outlets or negotiate prices directly with our suppliers.  While we compete primarily with local and regional distributors, a few organizations compete with us on a national basis.  We believe that the principal competitive factors in the foodservice industry are effective customer contacts, the ability to deliver a

wide range of quality products and related services on a timely and dependable basis and competitive prices

.  An additional competitive factor for our larger chain restaurant customers is the ability to provide a national distribution network.

We consider our primary market to be the foodservice market in the United States and Canada and estimate that we serve

a

bout 18% of this approximately $23


billio

n annual

market.  We believe, based upon industry trade data, that our sales to

the United States and Canada

food-away-from-home

industry

were the highest of

any foodservice distributor during

fiscal

2013.

While adequate industry statistics are not available, we believe that in most

instances our local operations are among the leading


distributors of food and related non-food products to foodservice customers in their respectiv

e trading areas.  We believe our competitive advantages include our more t

han 7,000 marke

ting associates, our diversified product base, which includes a differentiated group of high quality Sysco brand products, the diversity in the types of customers we serve, our economies of scale and our wide geographic presence in the United States and Canada, which mitigates some of the impact of regional economic declines that may occur over time and provides a national distribution network for larger chain restaurant customers.  We believe our liquidity and access to capital provides us the ability to continuously invest in business improvements.  We are the only publicly-traded distributor in the food-away-from-home industry in the United States.  While our public company status provides us with some advantages, including access to capital, we believe it also provides us with some disadvantages that our competitors do not have in terms of additional costs related to complying with regulatory requirements.

Government Regulation

Our company is required to comply, and it is our policy to comply, with all applicable laws in the numerous countries throughout the world in which we do business. In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us, and our operations may come under special scrutiny by competition law authorities due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions.  In general, competition laws are designed to protect businesses and consumers from anti-competitive behavior.

In the United States,

as a marketer and distributor of food products, we are subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).  The FDA regulates food safety through various statutory and regulatory mandates, including manufacturing and holding requirements for foods through good manufacturing practice regulations, hazard analysis and critical control point (HACCP) requirements for certain foods, and the food and color additive approval process.  The agency also specifies the standards of identity for certain foods, prescribes the format and content of information required to appear on food product labels, regulates food contact packaging and materials, and maintains a Reportable Food Registry for the industry to report when there is a reasonable probability that an article of food will cause serious adverse health consequences. For certain product lines, we are also subject to the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, the Packers and Stockyard Act and regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to interpret and implement these statutory provisions. The USDA imposes standards for product safety, quality and sanitation through the federal meat and poultry inspection program.  The USDA reviews and approves the labeling of these products and also establishes standards for the grading and commercial acceptance of produce shipments from our suppliers. We are also subject to the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which imposes certain registration and record keeping requirements on facilities that manufacture, process, pack or hold food for human or animal consumption.

We and our products are also subject to state and local regulation through such measures as the licensing of our facilities; enforcement by state and local health agencies of state and local standards for our products; and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of our products. Our facilities are subject to inspections and regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act by the U.S. Department of Labor. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing, health and safety standards to protect our employees from accidents and to establish hazard communication programs to transmit information on the hazards of certain chemicals present in products we distribute.

We are also subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Department of Labor, which sets employment practice standards for workers, and the U.S. Department of Transportation, which regulates transportation of perishable and hazardous materials and waste, and similar state, provincial and local agencies.

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits bribery of public officials to obtain or retain business in foreign jurisdictions. The FCPA also requires us to keep accurate books and records and to maintain internal accounting controls to detect and prevent bribery and to ensure that transactions are properly authorized. We have implemented and continue to develop a robust anti-corruption compliance program applicable to our global operations to detect and prevent bribery and to comply with these and other anti-corruption laws in countries where we operate.

Outside the United States, our business is subject to numerous similar statutes and regulations, as well as other legal and regulatory requirements.

All of our company's facilities and other operations in the United States and elsewhere around the world are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those relating to the use of water resources and the discharge of wastewater.

Further, most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and other petroleum products which are subject to laws regulating such systems and storage tanks.

Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements.

We are subject to other federal, state, provincial and local provisions relating to the protection of the environment or the discharge of materials; however, these provisions do not materially impact the use or operation of our facilities.


General

We have numerous trademarks that are of significant importance, including the SYSCO

®

trademark and our privately-branded product trademarks that include the SYSCO

®

trademark.  These trademarks and the private brands on which they are used are widely recognized within the foodservice industry.  Approximately half of our privately-branded sales are from products labeled with our SYSCO

®

trademark without any other trademark.  We believe the loss of the SYSCO

®

trademark would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Our U.S. trademarks are effective for a ten

-

year period and the company generally renews its trademarks before their expiration date

s

unless

a particular

trademark is no longer in use.

The company does not have any material patents or licenses.

We are not engaged in material research and development activities relating to the development of new products or the improvement of existing products.

Our sales do not generally fluctuate significantly on a seasonal basis; therefore, the business of the company is not deemed to be seasonal.

As of June 29, 2013, we operated 193 distribution facilities throughout the United States, Bahamas, Canada, Ireland and Northern Ireland.

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. These factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified on page


and from historical trends.

Industry and General Economic Risks

Periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability

Volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. Periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability.

In addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may negatively impact our business due to the timing needed to pass on such increases, as well as the impact it may have on discretionary spending by consumers

. Conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of product cost deflation because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant.

Our results and financial condition are directly affected by the volatility in the global economic environment, local market conditions and low consumer confidence, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income

The foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins and is especially susceptible to trends

and uncertainty

in economic activity, such as the

general economic slowdown in the US from 2008 to 2011

.  The global economic environment has recently been characterized by weak economies, persistently high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and volatility in financial markets worldwide. In addition, our results of operations are substantially affected by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market.  The difficult economic conditions can affect us in the following ways:

·

Unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market.

·

Food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases which

could negatively impact our business by reduced demand for our products

.

·

Heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending and can cause

disruptions with our customers and suppliers.

·

Liquidity issues and the inability of our customers, vendors and suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers.


The uncertainty in the global economic environment has adversely affected both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity.

Competition in our industry may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers, and makes it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability

The foodservice distribution industry is highly competitive, with numerous regional and local competitors, and is a mature industry characterized by slowing revenue growth. Additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), group purchasing organizations or consolidation among competitors have served to further increase pressure on the industry’s profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and profitability. New and increased competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting. Such competition may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers.

Although our sales historically have grown faster than the market, in recent years we have experienced slowing revenue growth rates. These trends have placed pressure on our profit margins and made it more difficult to achieve growth and pass along cost increases.  We expect these trends to continue for the foreseeable future.  If we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our market share, sales and profitability, through increased expenditures or decreased prices, could be adversely impacted.

We may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and forward purchase commitments intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs

The price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environm

ental concerns. On average, on-highway diesel fuel prices increased approximately

2% and 14%

in fiscal 2013 and 2

012, respectively, as compared to the prior year. Volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. The cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. Although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we can do so again if another period of high fuel costs occurs. If fuel costs increase again in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. We routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current market price for diesel. If fuel prices decrease significantly, these forward purchases may prove ineffective and result in our paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel.

Business and Operational Risks

Our ability to meet our long-term strategic objectives to grow the profitability of our business depends largely on the success of the Business Transformation Project

Our multi-year Business Transformation Project consists of:

·

the design and deployment of an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations;

·

an operating cost transformation initiative to lower our cost structure

;

·

a product cost reduction and category management initiative to use market data and customer insights to make changes to product pricing and product assortment; and

·

several other initiatives.

Although we expect the investment in the Business Transformation Project to provide meaningful benefits to the company over the long-term, the costs exceeded the benefits during the testing stages of implementation of ERP, including in fiscal 2013.  Successfully managing deployment is critical to our business success.  While we expect all of the components of the Business Transformation Project to enhance our value proposition to customers and suppliers and improve our long-term profitability, there can be no assurance that we will realize our expectations within the time frame we have established, if at all.

The actual cost of the ERP system may be greater or less than currently expected and continued delays in the execution of deployment may adversely affect our business and results of operations

ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial investments in system software and implementation activities over a multi-year timeframe. Our cost estimates related to our ERP system are based on assumptions which are subject to wide variability, require a great deal of judgment, and are inherently uncertain.  Thus, the actual costs of the project in fiscal 2014 (and beyond) may be greater or less than currently expected.  We have encountered, and we may continue to encounter,


the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including incurring expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated.  For example, we deployed our ERP system to three additional locations in fiscal 2013 and are experiencing improved functionality in many areas compared to past deployments; however, while the majority of the system functionality is performing as designed, we have identified areas of improvement to certain components of the system that we want to address before we continue deploying to additional locations.

In addition, implementation of the systems require significant management attention and resources over an extended period of time and any significant design errors or further delay in the implementation of the systems could materially and adversely affect our operating results and impact our ability to manage our business.

Continued delays in deployment, additional

operating problems discovered in the underlying information technology systems’ processes, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation process adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, because the implementation is expected to continue to involve a significant financial commitment, our business, results of operations and liquidity may also be adversely affected if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to realize the intended results of the system software and implementation activities. We expect costs to continue to outweigh benefits for fiscal 2014 as we continue deployment.

We may not realize anticipated benefits from our operating cost reduction efforts

We have implemented a number of cost reduction initiatives that we believe are necessary to position our business for future success and growth. Our future success and earnings growth depend upon our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity and reduced profitability. A variety of factors could cause us not to realize some of the expected cost savings, including, among other things, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings initiatives, lack of sustainability in cost savings over time and unexpected costs associated with operating our business.  If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease.

Furthermore

, even if we realize the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction efforts, we may experience an adverse impact on our employees and customers which could negatively affect our sales and profits.

We may not realize the full anticipated benefits from our category management initiative

We are in the midst of deploying our category management initiative which encompasses a rigorous process whereby we use market data and customer insights to optimize the product assortment available to our customers, strengthen strategic relationships with our suppliers, and increase our sales and profit margins.  If our sales associates are not able to effectively gain acceptance of the new product assortment from our customers, or we and our suppliers are not able to absorb the significant administrative and process changes required, then we may not be able to successfully execute the category management initiative in the timeline we anticipate and we may not capture the financial and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate, or at all.

Furthermore

, even if we realize the anticipated benefits of our category management initiative, we may experience an adverse impact on our employees and customers which could negatively affect our sales and profits.

Conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs

We obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. For the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us, however we believe the number of long-term contracts will increase as we progress with our category management initiative.  Although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. We are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. These conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop conditions, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). Further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products.

Input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period.

Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors.

Adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings

Maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business, particularly to selling Sysco Brand products.

The Sysco brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them.

Anything that damages our reputation or the public’s confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our


products

or relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand

, and could quickly affect our revenues and profits.

Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact the public’s confidence in our products. If patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns (even those unrelated to the use of Sysco products), or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically.

Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our products and services. This reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand.

Our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of Internet-based communications. Adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers’ confidence and reduce short-term or long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. Any of these events could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.

If sales to our independent restaurant customers continue to grow at a lower rate than sales to our large regional and national customers, our operating income may decline

Similar to industry trends, we are currently growing our

large regional and national customers

sales at a faster rate than our sales to independent restaurant locations.  Gross margin from our

large regional and national

customers is generally lower than that of our independent

restaurant

customers because we typically provide a higher level of services to these customers and are able to earn a higher

gross

margin as a

result

. If sales to our independent

restaurant

customers do not grow at the same or a greater rate as sales to our

large regional and national

customers, unless we are able to successfully increase prices or reduce our cost structure, our

operating income

may

decline.

As we grow sales to

large regional and national

customers at a faster pace than we grow sales to independent

restaurant

customers, we face the risk that large regional and national customers will increase their proportion of our total sales, thus subjecting us to greater risk if we lose one or more of these customers and possibly enabling these larger customers to exert greater pressure on us to reduce our prices

If sales to our

large regional and national

customers continues to increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our independent

restaurant

customers, we may become more dependent on large regional and national customers as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales, and any loss of sales to these customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers,

we could be pressured

by them

to lower

our

prices

.  In that event, we

would need to achieve additional cost savings to offset these

price

reductions

or our gross margins and profitability would be materially adversely affected

. We may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment.

Expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful

In addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes the possibility of further expansion of operations into international markets. Our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations.

Another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. Our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. Risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets.


If we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business

We are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, and due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. From time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. We also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. While we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot represent that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations.  We have received notice from the State of California and certain county district attorneys alleging violations of statutes related to the use of drop sites, which are temporary facilities for holding products prior to distributing them to customers.  We are fully cooperating with these parties in their investigations.  We have discontinued the use of drop sites across the enterprise.  While we believe we have mitigated the risk, we may face fines and penalties.

If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, seizures or debarments from contracting with the government. The cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require either the corporation as a whole or individual businesses to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations.

Product liability claims could materially impact our business

We, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by Sysco causes injury or illness. We cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Further, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image.   With respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. However, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If Sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share.

We must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively

Historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may be materially adversely impacted. Integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from Sysco’s. A significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. Significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments.

We need access to borrowed funds in order to grow, and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact on cash flow and liquidity

A substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. We anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. As a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. Moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock.


Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position

As of June 29, 2013, we had approximately $3 billion of total indebtedness. We have a Board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.3 billion; a revolving credit facility supporting our U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs in the amount of $1.0 billion set to expire on December 29, 2016, with $925 million extended to December 29, 2017; certain uncommitted bank lines of credit providing for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $

95.0

million; and a

€75.0 million (Euro) multicurrency revolving credit facility for use by our Irish subsidiary set to expire September 25, 2013, which is subject to extension

.  Our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions or joint ventures. Our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of capital and financial results.

In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.

We rely on technology in our business and any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could have a material negative impact on our business

Our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. We use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis.  Any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs and lower profits.

Furthermore, process changes will be required as we continue to use our existing warehousing, delivery, and payroll systems to support operations as we implement the ERP system. While Sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits.

We may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans

We contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. Approximately 10% of our current employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. In fiscal 2013, our total contributions to these plans were approximately $66 million, which included payments for withdrawal liabilities of $32 million. The costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit

.

Based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded.

The unfunded liabilities of

these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. Underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. Our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. Based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $220 million as of June 29, 2013.  A significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines

At the end of fiscal 2012, we

decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the

company-sponsored qualified pension plan (

Retirement Plan) as of December 31, 2012 for all U.S.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees.  Effective January 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan.

While these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation of $2.7 billion as of June 29, 2013 therefore financial market factors could impact our funding requirements.  Although recent pension funding relief legislation has served to defer some required funding, additional contributions may be required if our plan is not fully funded when the provisions that provided the relief are phased out.  See Note

13, “

Company-Sponsored Employee Benefit Plans” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the Retirement Plan.

The amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the plan’s assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan’s liability. Our Retirement Plan holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities.  Fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase.  The projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in


determining our minimum funding requirements. Specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse impact on our funding obligations. To the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity.

Failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages

As of June 29, 2013, approximately

8,100

employees at


operating companies were members of


different local unions associated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and other labor organizations. In fiscal 2014,



agreements covering approximately


,800

employees have expired or will expire. Since June 29, 2013,

two

contract covering

approximately 300

of such

employees have been renegotiated. Failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. Although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us.

A shortage of qualified labor could negatively impact our business and materially reduce earnings

Our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. Our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. Any such shortage would decrease Sysco’s ability to effectively serve our customers. Such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings.

A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers

We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and our customers. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers’ and suppliers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the Company and its business partners. Further, as the Company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the Company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage.

Our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders

Under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Sysco’s Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire Sysco without approval of the Board of Directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. In addition, if anyone attempts to acquire Sysco without approval of the Board of Directors of Sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the Board of Directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. As a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of Sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.


Item 2.

Properties

The table below shows the number of distribution facilities occupied by Sysco in each state, province or country and the aggregate square footage devoted to cold and dry storage as of June 29, 2013.


*  Segments served include Broadline (BL), SYGMA (S) and Other (O).

We own

appro

x

ima

t

ely 21,070,000 square

feet

of our distribution facilities (

or

82.3

%

of

the total square feet), and the remainder is occupied under leases expiring at various dates

from fiscal


to

fiscal


,

exclusive

of renewal options.

We own our approximately

625,000

square

foot headquarters office complex in Houston, Texas

.  In addition, we own our approximately

669,000

square

foot shared services complex in Cypress, Texas.

We are currently constructing a fold-out facility in Ontario, Canada.

As of June 29, 2013, our fleet of approximately

9,100

delivery vehicles consisted of tractor and trailer combinations, vans and panel trucks, most of which are either wholly or partially refrigerated for the transportation of frozen or perishable foods.  We own approximately


% of these vehicles and lease the remainder.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

None.

Item 4.

Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

PART II

I

tem 5

.

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities

The principal market for Sysco’s common stock (SYY) is the New York Stock Exchange.  The table below sets forth the high and low sales prices per share for our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and the cash dividends declared for the periods indicated.

The number of record owners of S

ysco

’s common stock

as of August 14, 2013

was

12,469

.


W

e

made the following

share repurchases during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013:

On

November


, 201


, the Board of Directors approved

the

repurchase

of

20,000,000 shares.

Pursuant to the repurchase program, shares may be acquired in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions at the company’s discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors

.

In July 2004, the Board of Directors authorized us to enter into agreements from time to time to extend our ongoing repurchase program to include repurchases during company announced “blackout periods” of such securities in compliance with Rule 10b5-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act.

Stock Performance Graph

The following performance graph and related information shall not be deemed “soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that

Sysco

specifically incorporates such information by reference into such filing.

The following stock performance graph compares the performance of S

ysco

’s Common Stock to the S&P 500 Index and to the S&P 500 Food/Staple Retail Index for S

ysco

’s last five fiscal years.

The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P 500 Food/Staple Index was $100 on the last trading day of fiscal


, and that all dividends were reinvested.

Performance data for S

ysco

, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Food/Staple Retail Index is provided as of the last trading day of each of our last five fiscal years.



Item 6

.

Selected Financial Data


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Our discussion below of our results includes certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide important perspective with respect to underlying business trends.  Any non-GAAP financial measure will be denoted as an adjusted measure and our fiscal 2013 comparisons to fiscal 2012

exclude

the impact from Business Transformation Project costs

,

multiemployer pension plan charges,

severance charges, executive retirement plans restructuring,

a

one-time acquisition related charge

and

facility closure charges

. Collectively, these are referred to as Excluded Charges.   Our fiscal 2012 comparisons to fiscal 2011 exclude

the impact from Business Transformation Project costs

,

multiemployer pension plan charges,

severance charges, corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) policies

and certain tax benefits

.

More information on the rationale for the use of these measures and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.”

Overview

Sysco distributes food and related products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers.  Our operations are primarily located throughout the United States, Bahamas, Canada, Ireland and Northern Ireland and include broadline companies (which include our custom-cut meat operations), SYGMA (our chain restaurant distribution subsidiary), specialty produce companies, hotel supply operations, a company that distributes specialty imported products and a company that distributes to international customers.

We consider our primary market to be the foodservice market in the United States and Canada and estimate that we serve about 18% of this approximately $235 billion annual market.  According to industry sources, the foodservice, or food-away-from-home, market represents approximately


% of the total dollars spent on food purchases made at the consumer level in the United States.

Industry sources estimate the total foodservice market in the United States experienced a real sales increase of approximately 1.3% in calendar year 2012 and a decline of  0.1% in calendar year 2011.  Real sales changes do not include the impact of inflation or deflation.

General economic conditions and consumer confidence can affect the frequency of purchases and amounts spent by consumers for food-away-from-home and, in turn, can impact our customers and our sales.  We believe the current general economic conditions, including pressure on consumer disposable income, have contributed to a decline in the foodservice market.  Historically, we have grown at a faster rate than the overall industry and believe we have continued to grow our market share in this fragmented industry.

Highlights

Fiscal 2013 was a year

in which

we progressed with our Business Transformation

P

roject while facing a challenging business and economic environment.  The foodservice industry has not fully participated in the overall economic recovery primarily due to constrained consumer spending for food-away-from-home.  Our results of operations reflect these challenges as well as expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, payroll costs, charges from the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans and increased fuel expense.

We believe our sales growth and expense management on a cost per cases basis was acceptable, however gross profit did not grow as we planned due partially to competitive pressures and a shift in customer mix.

W

e will remain focused on the execution of our business plan and initiatives from our Business Transformation

P

roject, with the goal for these items to

contribute to the long-term success of our customers and in turn, growth in our earnings.

We acquired 14 companies during fiscal 2013, which represents annualized sales in excess of $1 billion.  We expect these acquisitions will contribute to our sales growth, enhance our international market presence and product assortment.

Comparison of results from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012:

·

Sales

increased

4.8%, or $

2.0

billion to $

44.4

billion.

·

Operating income

decreased


2.3

%, or $


32.2

million, to $

1.


billion

.

·

Adjusted operating income

decreased

1.7%, or $36.4 million, to $2.1 billion.

·

Net earnings

decreased

11.


%, or $12

9.2

million, to $

1.0

billion.

·

Adjusted net earnings increased 0.1%, or $1.4 million, to $1.3 billion.

·

Basic earnings per share in fiscal 2013 was $

1.6


, a


2.0

%

decrease

from the comparable prior year period amount of  $1.91 per share.  Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2013

was $

1.6


, a

12.1

%

decrease

from

the comparable prior year period amount of $1.90 per share.

·

Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $2.14 in fiscal 2013, a 0.5% decrease from  the comparable prior year amount of  $2.15 per share.

See “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” for an explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures.


Trends and Strategy

Trends

General economic conditions and consumer confidence can affect the frequency of purchases and amounts spent by consumers for food-away-from-home and, in turn, can impact our customers and our sales.  Consumer confidence has improved since 2008, however it remains below its historical highs. We believe that the consumer is currently concerned about lingering unemployment levels and lack of growth in personal income.  We believe these items and other current general economic conditions, have negatively impacted consumer confidence and contributed to a slow rate of recovery in the foodservice market.  While these trends can be cyclical in nature, greater consumer confidence will be required to reverse the trend.  According to industry sources, real sales growth for the total foodservice market in the United States is expected to be modest over the long-term.  Non-traditional competitors are becoming more of a factor in terms of competition within our industry, and consumer spending trends are gradually shifting more to fresh, natural and sustainably-produced products.  We believe these industry trends reinforce the need for us to transform our business so that we can be in a position to provide greater value to our customers and reduce our overall cost structure.

Our gross margin performance has been influenced by multiple factors.  Our sales growth in fiscal 2013 was greater with our large regional and national customers.  Gross margin from these types of customers is generally lower than our independent restaurant customers.  If sales from our independent restaurant customers do not grow at the same rate or a greater rate than sales from these large regional and national customers, our gross margins may decline.  Additional pressure exists on our gross margin from competitive pricing pressures.  Low growth in the foodservice market is contributing to increased competition which is in turn pressuring gross profits.  We expect this pricing pressure will likely continue.  Inflation can be a factor that contributes to gross margin pressure; however, inflation rates remained relatively stable throughout fiscal 2013 at a rate between 2.0% to 2.5%.  Inflation was present in certain product categories such as poultry and meat, but was not significant in the majority of our product categories.  While we cannot predict whether inflation will continue at current levels, periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit, operating income and earnings.

We have experienced higher operating expenses this fiscal year as compared to fiscal 2012.  Our Business Transformation Project has been a primary contributor to this increase.  This project is a key part of our strategy to control costs and grow our market share over the long-term.  This project includes an integrated software system that went into deployment in August 2012, resulting in increased deployment expenses and software amortization.  In fiscal 2012, we were still building and testing our software and therefore had a greater amount of capitalized costs.  We believe expenses related to the project in fiscal 2014 will be similar to the costs incurred in fiscal 2013.  Operating expenses have also increased due to provisions related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals.  These pension plan provisions generally occur when a collective bargaining agreement is being renewed.  Pay-related expenses have increased primarily from acquired companies and within delivery areas of our business, however these have been partially offset by lower costs in the selling and information technology areas due to initiatives from our Business Transformation Project.  Fuel costs have increased due to both increases diesel prices and gallon usage.

Our retirement-related expenses consist primarily of costs from our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan),  our Supplement Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) and our defined contribution plan.  The net impact in fiscal 2013 of our retirement-related expenses as compared to fiscal 2012 was an increase of $31.3 million.  At the end of fiscal 2012, we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2012 for all United States-based (U.S.-based) salaried and non-union hourly employees.  Effective January 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan.

Absent the Retirement Plan freeze discussed above, net company-sponsored pension costs would have increased $106.9 million in fiscal 2013, however because of the freeze the costs decreased as compared to fiscal 2012.

Our expenses related to our defined contribution plan increased in fiscal 2013.  During fiscal 2013, we approved a plan to restructure our executive nonqualified retirement program, including the SERP, by freezing benefits.  We believe this restructuring more closely aligns our executive plans with our non-executive plans.  As a result of this restructuring, we incurred $

21.0

million in charges in fiscal 2013.  We expect our retirement-related expenses will decrease in the range of $75 million to $85 million in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013.  A greater portion of the decrease will occur in the second half of fiscal 2014 due to operation of our enhanced, defined contribution plan for a one-year period.    Excluding the $21.0 million restructuring charge in fiscal 2013, the decrease is expected to be $50 million to $60 million in fiscal 2014.  Over the long-term, we believe the changes to all of these retirement programs will result in reduced volatility of retirement-related expenses and a reduction in total retirement-related expenses.

We expect gross margin pressure to persist in fiscal 2014; however, we intend to achieve sales case growth and to reduce costs per case to improve our earnings performance trends in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013.


Strategy

We are focused on optimizing our core broadline business in the United States, Canada and Ireland, while continuing to explore appropriate opportunities to profitably grow our market share and create shareholder value by expanding beyond our core business.  Day-to-day, our business decisions are driven by our mission to market and deliver great products to our customers with exceptional service, with the aspirational vision of becoming each of our customers’ most valued and trusted business partner.  We have identified five strategies to help us achieve our mission and vision:

·

Profoundly enrich the experience of doing business with Sysco:  Our primary focus is to help our customers succeed.  We believe that by building on our current competitive advantages, we will be able to further differentiate our offering to customers.  Our competitive advantages include our sales force of over

7,000 mark

eting associates; our diversified product base, which includes quality-assured Sysco brand products; the suite of services we provide to our customers such as business reviews and menu analysis; and our wide geographic presence in the United States and Canada.  In addition, we have a portfolio of businesses spanning broadline, specialty meat, chain restaurant distribution, specialty produce, hotel amenities, specialty import and export which serves our customers’ needs across a wide array of business segments.  Through our Sysco Ventures platform, we are developing a suite of technology solutions that help support the administrative needs of our customers.  We believe this strategy of enriching the experience of doing business with Sysco will increase customer retention and profitably accelerate sales growth with both existing and new customers.

·

Continuously improve productivity in all areas of our business:  Our multi-year Business Transformation Project is designed to improve productivity and reduce costs.  An integrated software system is included in this project and will support a majority of our business processes to further streamline our operations and reduce costs.  These systems are commonly referred to as Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems.  We view the technology as an important enabler of this project; however the larger outcome of this project will be from transformed processes that standardize portions of our operations.  This includes a shared business service center to centrally manage certain back-office functions that are currently performed at a majority of our operating companies.

This

project

includes

other components to lower our cost structure

through improved productivity without impacting our service to our customers.

W

e continue to optimize warehouse and delivery activities across the corporation to achieve a more efficient delivery of products to our customers

and we seek to improve sales productivity and lower general and administrative costs.  We also have a product cost reduction and category management initiative to use market data and customer insights to make changes to product pricing and product assortment.

·

Expand our portfolio of products and services by initiating a customer-centric innovation program:  We continually explore opportunities to provide new and improved products, technologies and services to our customers.

·

Explore, assess and pursue new businesses and markets: This strategy is focused on identifying opportunities to expand the core business through growth in new international markets and in adjacent areas that complement our core foodservice distribution business.  As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions and sales of assets and businesses.

·

Develop and effectively integrate a comprehensive, enterprise-wide talent management process:  Our ability to drive results and grow our business is directly linked to having the best talent in the industry.  We are committed to the continued enhancement of our talent management programs in terms of how we recruit, select, train and develop our associates throughout Sysco as well as succession planning.  Our ultimate objective is to provide our associates with outstanding opportunities for professional growth and career development.

Business Transformation Project

Our multi-year Business Transformation Project consists of:

·

the design and deployment of an ERP system to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations;

·

a cost transformation initiative to lower our cost structure;

·

a product cost reduction and category management initiative to use market data and customer insights to make changes to product pricing and product assortment; and

·

several other initiatives.

We deployed our ERP system to three additional locations in fiscal 2013 and experienced improved functionality in many areas compared to past deployments.  Our shared services center, Sysco Business Services, continues to expand and provide a broader array of centralized administrative services.  The majority of the system functionality is performing as designed; however, we have identified areas for improvement to certain components of the system that we want to address before we continue deploying to additional locations.  These improvements include simplifying certain processes to improve response times and reduce system loads.  We believe that this will improve system stability and result in improved ability to scale the system as we move forward.  While these


improvements are being made, we will continue implementing individual modules such as our human resource module and continue with other Business Transformation initiatives.  We intend to deploy the system to one additional location around the end of this calendar year.  If our updates are successful, we anticipate that further deployment will resume early in calendar 2014.  Our deployment schedule will be further defined at that time.

Our cost transformation

initiative

seeks to lower our cost structure by

$300 million to $350 million annually by fiscal 2015.

These include initiatives to increase our productivity in the warehouse and delivery activities including fleet management and maintenance activities.  It also involves improving sales productivity and reducing general and administrative expenses, partially through aligning compensation and benefit plans.

Efforts from our cost transformation initiatives in fiscal 2013 spanned many areas of operations.  We completed the implementation of maintenance management tools in our United States Broadline (U.S. Broadline) companies.  A customer relationship management tool has been implemented in our U.S. Broadline companies that will improve sales productivity.  We restructured our information technology department and contracted with a third party provider for information technology managed services.  For our U.S. Broadline companies, we accelerated the implementation of our human resource module from our ERP system which is expected to be complete by the third quarter of fiscal 2014.  Also, in our U.S. Broadline companies we began centralizing field finance work to our shared services center.  We believe this transition will be complete by December 2013.  We have begun implementing enhancements to our routing technology and processes to improve delivery efficiencies and expect this initiative to be complete by fiscal 2015.  Lastly, our retirement programs have been restructured, which we believe will result in reduced volatility of retirement-related expenses and a reduction in total retirement-related expenses in the long-term.

Our

product

cost

reduction

and category management

initiative

is designed to lower our total pro

duct costs by $250 million to $300 million annually by fiscal 2015

and to align our product assortment with current customer demand

.

We are using

market data and customer ins

ights to make changes to

our

product

assortment while building strategic partnerships with our suppliers.  We believe there are opportunities to more effectively provide the products that our customers want, commit to greater volumes with our suppliers and create mutual benefits for all parties.  We believe that procuring greater quantities with select vendors will result in reduced prices for our product purchases.  In fiscal 2013, o

ur product cost reduction and category management initiative was active in reducing SKUs in our inventory and increasing participation in our centralized purchasing initiative.  We are in the process of piloting four product categories in our category management initiative and have received encouraging acceptance rates from our customers of our new assortment of products.  Our suppliers have engaged in the process and appreciate building strategic partnerships that include customer insights into current trends and product innovations..

Expenses related to the Business Transformation Project were $

330.

5 million in fiscal 2013

or $0.36

per share, $193.1 million in fiscal 2012 or $0.21 per share and $102.6 million in fiscal 2011 or $0.11 per share.  The increase in costs in 2013 was largely attributable to deployment costs and software amortization, which began in August 2012.  Software amortization totaled $76.8 million in 2013.  The increase in costs in 2012 was due to increased project spending

, reduced capitalization of expenditures

and expenses due to the ramp up of our shared services

center.  We anticipate that project expenses for fiscal 2014 will be similar to fiscal 2013.

Despite the increase in expense, our cash outlay

for our Business Transformation Project, which excludes non-cash software amortization, decreased approximately $48 million as compared to fiscal 2012.

Our goal for our Business Transformation Project is to generate approximately $550 million to $650 million in annual benefits to be achieved by fiscal 2015.  In fiscal 2013, we believe we exceeded our goal of

realizing approximately 25% of the total benefit.  In fiscal 2014, we believe we can obtain approximately 50% to 70% of the total targeted benefit.  If we are successful in obtaining these benefits in fiscal 2014, some of the trends

in gross profits and operating expenses

noted above could be favorably impacted.

Our original goal was to grow our diluted earnings per share to $2.50 to $2.75 by fiscal 2015.  Despite the success of our Business Transformation Project, our diluted earnings per share has not grown as originally anticipated due to the difficult economic environment and the general operating performance of our underlying business that did not meet our expectations.  We no longer believe we will achieve our original goal of producing diluted earnings per share to $2.50 to $2.75 by fiscal 2015.


Results of Operations

The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage of sales for the periods indicated:

The following table sets forth the change in the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:

(1)

Other expense (income), net was income of $

17.5

million in fiscal


, $

6.8

million in fiscal


and

$

14.2

million in fiscal


.

Sales

Sales for fiscal 2013 were

4.8

% higher than fiscal 2012.  Sales for fiscal 2013

increased as a result of product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, sales from acquisitions that occurred

within the last 12 months and case volume growth

.

Our sales growth in fiscal 2013 was greater with our large regional and national customers as compared to sales growth with our independent restaurant customers.  We believe our independent sales growth has been negatively influenced by lower consumer sentiment.   Case volumes excluding acquisitions within the last 12 months

improved

1.3

%

in fiscal 2013.  Our case volumes represent our results from our Broadline and SYGMA segments only.  Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 1.5% for fiscal 2013.  Our acquisition activity has been greater in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012.  We estimate the carryover impact into fiscal 2014 will cause sales to increase by approximately 1.0%.  We expect to continue the trend of closing acquisitions in fiscal 2014 that will continue to add at least 1.0% in total annualized sales from new acquisitions in fiscal 2014.  Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of

2.2

% during fiscal 2013.  Case volumes including acquisitions within the last 12 months improved

approximately

2.6

%

in fiscal 2013.

The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars

did not have a significant impact

on

sales

when

compared to fiscal 201


.

Sales for fiscal


were

7.8

%

higher

than fiscal 2011.

Sales for fiscal


increased

as a result of

product cost inflation, and the resulting increase in selling prices, along with improving case volumes

.

Changes in

product cost, an internal measure of inflation, were approximately

5.5

% during fiscal


.

Case volumes including acquisitions within the last 12 months improved approximately


3.0% during fiscal 2012.  Case volumes excluding acquisitions within the last 12 months improved approximately 2.5% during fiscal 2012.

Sales from acquisitions in the last 12 months

favorably

impacted sales by

0.7

% for fiscal


.

The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars

did not have a significant impact

on

sales

when

compared to fiscal 201


.

Operating Income

Cost of sales primarily includes our product costs, net of vendor consideration, and includes in-bound freight.  Operating expenses include the costs of facilities, product handling, delivery, selling and general and administrative activities.

Fuel surcharges are reflected within sales and gross profit; fuel costs are reflected within operating expenses.

Fiscal 201


vs. Fiscal 201


The following table sets forth the change in the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:

The decrease in operating income in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 was

primarily driven by increased expenses, including charges related to our Business Transformation Project and increased pay-related expenses.

Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to increased sales.  Gross margin, which is gross profit as a percentage of sales, was

17.7

2% in fiscal 2013, a decline of


9 basis points from the gross margin of 18.11% in fiscal 2012.  This decline in gross margin was partially the result of increased growth from large regional and national customers.  Gross margin from these types of customers is generally lower than other types of customers.  As seen in our results during fiscal 2013, if sales from our independent restaurant customers do not grow at the same rate sales from these large regional and national customers, our gross margins may decline.  Increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market also contributed to the decline in gross margins.

We estimate that Sysco’s product cost inflation

was

2.2

% during fiscal 2013.  Based on our product sales mix for fiscal 2013, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the

poultry and meat

product categories.  While we cannot predict whether inflation will occur, prolonged periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit and earnings.

Operating expenses for fiscal 2013 increased

7.3

%, or $


3.2

million

, over fiscal 2012,

primarily due to increased expenses from our Business Transformation Project, pay-related expenses, charges related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel.  Ad

justed operating expenses increased 4.1%, or $227.4 million, in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012.  The increase in adjusted operating expenses

was primarily due to increased pay-related expenses, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel.

Expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, inclusive of pay-related and software amortization expense, were $330.5 million in fiscal 2013 and $193.1 million in fiscal 2012, representing an increase of $137.4 million.  The increase in fiscal 2013 resulted in part from the initiation of software amortization as the system was placed into service in August 2012.  The increase in depreciation and amortization expense related to the Business Transformation Project was $59.6 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012.  Our project was not in the deployment stage during any period of fiscal 2012; therefore, a greater portion of the costs were capitalized in fiscal 2012.

We anticipate that project expenses for fiscal 2014 will be similar to fiscal 2013.

Pay-related expenses, excluding labor costs associated with our Business Transformation Project and retirement-related expenses, increased by $48.3 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012.  The increase was primarily due to added costs from companies acquired in the last 12 months and increased delivery and warehouse compensation.  Delivery and warehouse compensation includes activity-based pay which will increase when our case volumes increase.  Additionally, pay rates have been higher particularly in geographies where oil and gas exploration occurs due to labor shortages.  These increases were partially offset by reduced sales and information


technology pay-related expenses as a result of some of our Business Transformation initiatives.  During fiscal 2013, we streamlined our sales management organization and modified marketing associate compensation plans.  We also restructured our information technology department during the mid-point of fiscal 2013, reducing headcount as a result.

Our retirement-related expenses consist primarily of costs from our Retirement Plan, SERP and our defined contribution plan.  The net impact in fiscal 2013 of our retirement-related expenses as compared to fiscal 2012 was an increase of $31.3 million, consisting

of $48.

1 million increased costs from the defined contribution plan, a $20.8 million decrease in our net company-sponsored pension costs and approximately $4 million for other costs.  At the end of fiscal 2012, Sysco

decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2012 for all U.S.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees.  Effective January 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan.  Absent the Retirement Plan freeze, net company-sponsored pension costs would have increased $106.9 million in fiscal 2013.

During fiscal 2013, we approved a plan to restructure our executive nonqualified retirement program including the SERP and our executive deferred compensation plan.  A non-qualified defined contribution plan became effective on January 1, 2013 as a replacement plan and benefits were frozen under the SERP at the end of fiscal 2013.  We believe this restructuring more closely aligned our executive plans with our non-executive plans.  As a result of this restructuring, we incurred $21.0 million in charges in fiscal 2013.  We expect our retirement-related expenses in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 will decrease in the range of $75 million to $85 million primarily from reduced expenses of our Retirement Plan, partially offset by increased defined contribution plan expenses.  A greater portion of the decrease will occur in the second half of fiscal 2014 due to operation of our enhanced, defined contribution plan for a one-year period.  Excluding the $21.0 million restructuring charge in fiscal 2013 and the decrease in fiscal 2014 is expected to be $50 million to $60 million.  Over the long-term, we believe the changes to all of these retirement programs will result in reduced volatility of retirement-related expenses and a reduction in total retirement-related expenses.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $95.6 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012.  The increase related to our Business Transformation Project is described above.  The remaining increase of $36.0 million in fiscal 2013 was primarily related to assets that were not placed in service in fiscal 2012 that were in service in fiscal 2013, primarily from new facilities, property from new acquisitions and expansions.

From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans.  In fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, we recorded provisions of $41.9 million and $21.9 million, respectively, related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals.

Fuel costs increased by $18.9 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012.  The increase was primarily due to increased contracted diesel prices and increased gallon usage.  Our costs per gallon increased 2.8% in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012.  Our activities to mitigate fuel costs include reducing miles driven by our trucks through improved routing techniques, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges.  We routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements with a goal of mitigating a portion of the volatility in fuel prices.

Our fuel commitments will result in either additional fuel costs or avoided fuel costs based on the comparison of the prices on the fixed price contracts and market prices for the respective periods.  In fiscal 2013, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $17.8 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes.  In fiscal 2012, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $20.2 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes.

As of June 29, 2013, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling

approximately $204.0 million through August 2014.  These contracts will lock in the price of approximately 60% to 65% of our fuel purchase needs for the remainder of the fiscal year at prices slightly lower than the current market price for diesel.  Assuming that fuel prices do not rise significantly over recent levels during fiscal 2014, fuel costs, exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected to increase by approximately $10 to $20 million

as compared to fiscal 2013.  Our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2014 and estimates of fuel consumption.  Actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates.  We continue to evaluate all opportunities to offset potential increases in fuel expense, including the use of fuel surcharges and overall expense management.

We also measure our expense performance on a cost per case basis.  This metric is calculated by taking the total operating expense of our Broadline companies, excluding charges multiemployer pension plans and severance charges,  divided by the number of cases sold.  We seek to grow our sales and either minimize or reduce our costs on a per case basis.    Our fiscal 2013 cost per case decreased by more than $0.03 per case as compared to fiscal 2012 primarily from reduced pay-related expenses from our sales and information technology areas, partially offset by increased costs from delivery and warehouse pay-related expenses, increased retirement-related expenses and fuel increases.  We expect to continue to reduce our Broadline companies cost per case in fiscal 2014 by approximately $0.05 per case partially from reduced retirement-related expenses.


Fiscal 2012 vs. Fiscal 2011

The following table sets forth the change in the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:

Th

e

decrease

in operating income from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2011

was primarily driven by

declines in gross margin and increased operating expenses partially from increased expenses from payroll and our Business Transformation Project

.  These expense

increases

were partially offset by

increases in gross profit dollars

.

Gross profit dollars

increased

in fiscal 201


as compared to fiscal 201


primarily due to

increased sales

.  Gross

margin

,

which is gross profit as a percentage of sales

, was

18.11

% in fiscal 201


, a

decline

of


basis points from the gross

margin

of

18.80%

in fiscal 201


.  This

decline

in gross

margin

was

primarily the result of

product cost inflation

.

Other factors contributing to our gross margin

decline

were

competitive pressures on pricing, segment mix changes where certain of our lower margin segments grew faster than our Broadline segment and our own strategy to gain market share

.

Sysco’s product cost inflation was estimated as inflation of

5.5

% during fiscal 201


.  Based on our product sales mix for fiscal 201


, we were most impacted by higher levels of infla

tion in the

meat, canned and dry and frozen product

categories in the range of


% to


%.

Our product cost inflation reached a high of 7.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and a low of 3.3% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012.

While we are generally able to pass through modest levels of inflation to our customers, we were unable to

fully pass through

these higher levels of product cost inflation with the same gross

margin

in these product categories without negatively impacting our customers’ business and therefore our business.

G

ross profit dollars for fiscal 201


a

lso

increased

as a result of

higher fuel surcharges

.  Fuel surcharges were approximately $47.5 million

higher

in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011 due to

higher fuel prices incurred

during fiscal 201


and the application of

fuel surcharges to a broader customer base for the entire fiscal period

.

Operating expenses for fiscal 201


increased

5.9% pri

marily due

to increased pay-related expenses, increased expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, increased fuel costs and an unfavorable year-over-year comparison on the amounts recorded to adjust the carrying value of COLI policies to their cash surrender values as compared to the prior year period

.

These increases were partially offset by

decreases in net company-sponsored pension costs and lower provisions related to multiemployer pension plans

.

Adjusted operating expenses

increased

4.2%, or $221.7 million, in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011.

Pay-related expenses, excluding labor costs associated with our Business

Transformation Project,

increased

by $153.7 million in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011.  The

increase

was primarily due to

increased sales and delivery compensation and added costs from companies acquired within the last 12 months

.

Sales compensation includes commissions

which are driven by gross profit dollars and case volumes, and

delivery

compensation includes activity-based pay which is driven by case volumes

.

Since these drivers

we

re variable in nature

, increased

gross profit

dollars and cases volumes

increase

d sales and delivery compensation

.

Also contributing to the

increase

in pay-related expenses was an increase in

severance incurred in

fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011 of $5.7 million.

Expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, inclusive of pay-related expense, were $193.1 million in fiscal 2012 and $102.6 million in fiscal 2011, representing an increase of $90.5 million.  The increase in fiscal 2012 resulted from increased project spending

, reduced capitalization of expenditures

and expenses due to the ramp up of our shared services center.

F

uel costs

increased

by $

39.8

million in fiscal


over fiscal


primarily due to

increased contracted and market diesel prices

.

Our

costs per gallon

increased

13.0

% in fiscal


over fiscal


.  Our fuel commitments will result in either additional fuel costs or avoided fuel costs based on the comparison of the prices on the fixed price contracts and market prices for the respective periods.  In fiscal 201


, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $

20.2

million of

avoided

fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally

lower

than market prices for the contracted volumes.

In fiscal 2011, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $16.4 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes.


We adjust the carrying values of our COLI policies to their cash surrender values on an ongoing basis.  The cash surrender values of these policies are largely based on the values of underlying investments, which through fiscal 2011 included publicly traded securities.  As a result, the cash surrender values of these policies fluctuated with changes in the market value of such securities.  The changes in the financial markets resulted i

n gains

for these policies of $

28.2

million in fiscal


.

Near the end of fiscal 2011, we reallocated all of our policies into low-risk, fixed-income securities to reduce earnings volatility and therefore our adjustments for fiscal 2012 were not significant.

Net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal


wer

e $27.3 million

lower

than i

n fiscal 201


.

The

decrease

in fiscal 2012 was due primarily to

higher returns on assets of Sysco’s Retirement Plan obtained in

fiscal 2011.

From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans.

In the last two fiscal years, we voluntary withdrew from several multiemployer plans and

recorded provisions of $

21.9

million in fiscal

2012 and

$

41.5

million in fiscal


.

Our fiscal 2012, our Broadline companies cost per case increased approximately $0.04 per case as compared to fiscal 2011 primarily from increased pay-related expenses and higher fuel costs.

Net Earnings

Net earnings decreased

11.

5% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012 due primarily to the changes in operating income discussed above.  Adjusted net earnings increased

0.

1% in fiscal 2013.  The increase in adjusted net earnings in fiscal 2013 was primarily

from increased gross profits, partially offset by increases in adjusted operating expenses that were primarily due to increased pay-related expenses, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel.

Net earnings for fiscal


decreased


.6

% over

fiscal 2011

.  This

decrease

was primarily due to

changes in operating income discussed above

.  Adjusted net earnings

increased

4.6% during fiscal 2012.

The effective tax rate

of

35.8


%

for fiscal 2013 was favorably impacted primarily by

two items.  First,

we

recorded a tax benefit of $

14.0

million related to changes in estimates for the prior year domestic tax provision.  Second,

we

recorded a tax benefit of $8.8 million related to disqualifying dispositions of Sysco stock pursuant to share-based compensation arrangements.  The effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the recording of $

5.7

million in tax and interest related to various federal, foreign an

d

state uncertain tax positions.  Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statut

ory rates less than our domestic tax rate

also

had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.

The effective tax rate for fiscal 201


was 37.13%

.

Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statutory tax rates less than our domestic tax rate had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.

The effective tax rate of 36.96% for fiscal 2011 was favorably impacted primarily by two items.  First, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $17.0 million for the reversal of valuation allowances previously recorded on state net operating loss carryforwards.  Second, we adjust the carrying values of our COLI policies to their cash surrender values.  The gain of $28.2 million recorded in fiscal 2011 was primarily non-taxable for income tax purposes, and had the impact of decreasing income tax expense for the period by $11.1 million.  Partially offsetting these favorable impacts was the recording of $9.3 million in tax and interest related to various federal, foreign and state uncertain tax positions.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share in fiscal 2013 was $

1.6

8,

a


2.0% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount of $1.91 per share.  Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2013 was $

1.6


, a


2.1% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount of $1.90 per share.  This decrease was primarily the result of the factors discussed above.  Adjusted diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2013 was $2.14, a decrease of 0.5% from the comparable prior year period amount of $2.15.

All earnings per share metrics for the fiscal 2013 were partially impacted from greater shares outstanding.  Sysco experienced a greater number of stock option exercises in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012, which has increased the number of shares outstanding.

Basic and diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2012 were $

1.

91 and $1.90, respectively.  This represents a 2.6%

decrease

from the comparable prior year period amount for basic earnings per share of $1.96 per share and a 3.1%

decrease

from the comparable prior year period amount for diluted earnings per share of $1.96.

This

decrease was primarily the result of the factors discussed above.

Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $2.14 in fiscal 2012 and $2.05 in fiscal 2011, or an increase of 4.4%

.


Non-GAAP Reconciliations

Sysco’s results of operations are impacted

by co

sts from the Business Transformation Project

(BTP costs)

, multiemployer pension plans (MEPP), severance,

executive retirement plans restructuring,

a one-time acquisition related charge

and

facility closure charges.  Management believes that adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove the impact of

these items

provides an important perspective with respect to underlying business trends and results and provides meaningful supplemental informatio

n to both management and investors that is indicative of the performance of the company’s underlying operations and facilitates comparison on a year-over year basis.

Additionally, near the end of fiscal 2011, we reallocated all of our investments in our

COLI

policies

into low-risk, fixed-income securities and therefore we do not expect significant volatility in operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share in future periods related to these policies.  We experienced significant gains in these policies during fiscal 2011.

In addition, we recorded tax benefits in fiscal 2011.  As such, the comparison of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 is also adjusted for COLI gains and recognized tax benefits.

The company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  These financial measures should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company’s results of operations for periods presented.  An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP.  As a result, in the tables below, where applicable, each period presented

is adjusted to remove

costs of the

Business Transformation Project,

MEPP

, severance,

executive retirement plan restructuring,

a one-time acquisition related charge, facility closure charges,

C

OLI gains and recognized tax benefits.


Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to adjusted results for these measures for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012:

(1)

The aggregate tax impact of adjustments for

Business Transformation Project, multiemployer pension plan expenses, severance charges, executive retirement plans rest

ru

cturing and facility closure charges was $150.3 million and $85.2 million for fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively.

(


)

Individual components of diluted earnings per share may not sum to the total adjusted diluted earnings due to rounding.


Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to adjusted results for these measures for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011:

(1)

The aggregate tax impact of adjustments for Business Transformation Project, multiemployer pension plan expenses and severance charges was

$

85.2 million and

$

56.5 million for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively.

(


)

Individual components of diluted earnings per share may not sum to the total adjusted diluted earnings due to rounding.


Segment Results

We have aggregated our operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined in accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise.  The accounting policies for the segments are the same as those disclosed by Sysco within the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data within

Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K

.  Intersegment sales represent specialty produce

and imported specialty

products distributed by the Broadline and SYGMA operating

companies

.

Management evaluates the performance of each of our operating segments based on its respective operating income results

.

Corporate expenses generally include all expenses of the corporate office and Sysco’s shared service center.  These also include all share-based compensation costs and expenses related to the company’s Business Transformation Project.

While a segment’s operating income may be impacted in the short

-

term by increases or decreases in gross profits, expenses, or a combination thereof, over the long-term each business segment is expected to increase its operating income at a greater rate than sales growth.  This is consistent with our long-term goal of leveraging earnings growth at a greater rate than sales growth.

The following table sets forth the operating income of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage of each segment’s sales for each period reported and should be read in conjunction with Note


, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements

in Item 8

:

The following table sets forth the change in the selected financial data of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage increase over the prior year and should be read in conjunction with Note


,

“Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements

in Item 8

:

(1)

SYGMA had operating income of $

52.0

million in fiscal


, $

61.0

million in fiscal


and $

62.2

million in fiscal


.

The following table sets forth sales and operating income of each of our reportable segments, the other segment, and intersegment sales, expressed as a percentage of aggregate segment sales, including intersegment sales, and operating income, respectively.  For purposes of this statistical table, operating income of our segments excludes corporate expenses of $

894.3

million in fiscal


, $

677.6

million in fiscal


and $

558.8

million in fiscal


that are not charged to our segments.  This information should be read in conjunction with Not

e 21, “

Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements

in Item 8

:


Broadline Segment

The

Broadline reportable segment is an aggregation of the company’s United States, Canadian

,

Caribbean

and European Broadline segments.  Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to

both traditional and chain restaurant

customers

, hospitals, schools, hotels, industrial caterers and other venues where foodservice products are served.  These companies also provide custom-cut meat operations

.  Broadline operations have significantly higher operating margins than the rest of Sysco’s operations.  In fiscal


, the Broadline operating results represented approximately

81.3

% of Sysco’s overall sales and

94.1

% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco’s segments, which excludes corporate expenses.

There are several factors which contribute to these higher operating results as compared to the SYGMA and Other operating segments.  We have invested substantial amounts in assets, operating methods, technology and management expertise in this segment.  The breadth of its sales force, geographic reach of its distribution area and its purchasing power allow us to

benefit from

this segment’s earnings.

Sales

Sales were 5.0% greater in fiscal 2013 than fiscal 2012.  Sales for fiscal 2013 increased as a result of product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, sales from acquisitions that occurred within the last 12 months and improving case volumes.  Our sales growth in fiscal 2013 has been greater with our large regional and national customers

as compared to sales growth with our independent restaurant customers.  We believe our independent sales growth has been negatively influenced by lower consumer sentiment.   Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months contributed 1.6% to the overall sales comparison for fiscal 2013.  Our acquisition activity has been greater in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012.  We estimate the carryover impact into fiscal 2014 will cause sales to increase by approximately 1.0%.  We expect to continue at the trend of closing acquisitions in fiscal 2014 that will continue to add annualized sales from new acquisitions in fiscal 2014. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 2.3% in fiscal 2013.

The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars

did not have a significant impact

on

sales

when

compared to fiscal 201


.

Sales for fiscal 2012

were

7.8

%

greater

than fiscal


.

Product cost inflation and the resulting

increase

in selling prices, combined with case volume improvement,

contributed to the

increase

in sales in fiscal


.  Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as

inflation

of

5.7

% in fiscal


.  Non-comparable acquisitions contributed

0.7

% to the overall sales comparison for fiscal


.  The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars

negatively

impacted sales by 0.1% compared to fiscal 2011.

Operating Income

Operating income decreased by 0.6% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012.  This decrease was driven by operating expenses increasing more than gross profit dollars.

Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2013 primarily due to increased sales; however, gross profit dollars increased at a lower rate than sales.  This decline in gross margin was partially the result of increased growth from large regional and national customers.  Gross margin from these types of customers is generally lower than from other types of customers.  As seen in our results during fiscal 2013, if sales from our independent restaurant customers do not grow at the same rate as sales from these large regional and national customers, our gross margins may decline.  Increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market also contributed to the decline in gross margins.  Our Broadline segment experienced product cost inflation in fiscal 2013.  Based on our product sales mix during fiscal 2013, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the

poultry and meat

product categories.  While we cannot predict whether inflation will occur, prolonged periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit and earnings.

Operating expenses for the Broadline segment increased in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012.  The expense increases in fiscal 2013 were driven largely by charges related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals, pay-related expenses including severance costs, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel.  The increase in pay-related expenses was primarily due to increased delivery and warehouse compensation, partially attributable to case growth, and added costs from companies acquired in the last 12 months.  Delivery and warehouse compensation includes activity-based pay which will increase when our case volumes increase.  Additionally, pay rates have been higher particularly in geographies where oil and gas exploration occurs.  These increases were partially offset by reduced sales and information technology pay-related expenses.  Our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013 and contributed to the increase in operating expenses.  Depreciation and amortization increased primarily from assets that were not placed in service in fiscal 2012 that were in service in fiscal 2013, primarily from new facilities, property from new acquisitions and expansions.  Fuel costs were $16.7 million higher in fiscal 2013 than in fiscal 2012.  Assuming that fuel prices do not rise significantly over recent levels during fiscal 2014, fuel costs exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected

to increase by

approximately

$5 million to $15 million as compared to fiscal 2013.  Our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost

committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements


currently in place for fiscal 2014 and estimates of fuel consumption.  Actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates.  We continue to evaluate all opportunities to offset potential increases in fuel expense, including the use of fuel surcharges and overall expense management.

From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans.  In fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, we recorded provisions of $41.9 million and $21.9 million, respectively, related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals.

Our fiscal 2013 cost per case decreased by more than $0.03 per case as compared to fiscal 2012 primarily from reduced pay-related expenses from our sales and information technology areas, partially offset by increased costs from delivery and warehouse pay-related expenses, increased retirement-related expenses and fuel increases.  We expect to continue to reduce our cost per case in fiscal 2014 by approximately $0.05 per case partially from reduced retirement-related expenses.

Operating income

increased

by

3.8

% in fiscal


over fiscal

2011.  This

increase

was driven by

gross profit dollars increasing more than operating expenses

.

Gross profit dollars

increased

in fiscal


primarily due to

increased sales

; however, gross profit dollars

increased

at a

lower

rate than sales.

This

decline

in gross margin was primarily the result of

product cost inflation and competitive pressures on pricing

.

Based on Broadline’s product sales mix for fiscal


,

we

were

most impacted by

higher levels of inflation in the meat, canned and dry and frozen product categories

.  While we are generally able to p

ass through modest levels of inflation to our customers, we were unable pass through fully these higher levels of product cost inflation with the same gross

margin

in these product categories without negatively impacting our customers’ business and therefore our business.

In addition, gross profit dollars for fiscal


increased

as a result of

higher fuel surcharges

.

Fuel surcharges were approximately $

39.1

million higher in fiscal


than the prior year due to

the application of fuel surcharges to a broader customer base during fiscal 2012 due to higher fuel prices incurred during these periods

.

Operating expenses for the Broadline segment

increased

in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011.  The expense

increases

in fiscal 2012 were driven largely by

an increase in pay-related expenses and fuel costs, partially offset by a favorable comparison in the provisions recorded for the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans in each fiscal year

.  Sales compensation includes commissions which are driven by gross profit dollars and case volumes, and delivery compensation includes activity-based pay which is driven by case volumes.  Since these drivers are variable in nature, increased gross profit dollars and case volumes will increase sales and delivery compensation

.

Fuel costs were $26.5 million

higher

in fiscal 2012 than the prior year.

We recorded provisions related to

the withdrawal from

multiemployer pension plans of $

21.9

million in fiscal

2012 and

$

41.5

million in fiscal

2011.

In fiscal 2012, our Broadline companies cost per case increased approximately $0.04 per case as compared to fiscal 2011 primarily from increased pay-related expenses and higher fuel costs.

SYGMA Segment

SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations.  SYGMA operations have traditionally had lower operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco’s other segments.  This segment of the foodservice industry has generally been characterized by lower overall operating margins as the volume that these customers command allows them to negotiate for reduced margins.  These operations service chain restaurants through contractual agreements that are typically structured on a fee per case delivered basis.

Sales

Sales were 0.8%

greater

in fiscal 2013 than in fiscal 2012.  The increase was primarily due to product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, partially offset by case volume declines.  Case volumes were challenged from low levels of growth from existing customers and from lost customers.  While SYGMA has experienced some success in replacing lost business with new customers, it has not been enough to significantly overcome the factors noted above. We believe SYGMA’s sales growth prospects are better in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013.

Sales were

7.4

%

greater

in fiscal


than in fiscal

2011.

The

increase

in sales was primarily due to

product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices

.

Sales to new customers

also contributed to the

increase

.

One chain restaurant custome

r (The Wendy’s Company) acco

unted for approximately


% of the SYGMA segment sales for the fiscal year ended

June 29, 2013

.  SYGMA maintains multiple regional contracts with varied expiration dates with this customer.  While the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on SYGMA, we do not believe that the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on Sysco as a whole.


Operating Income

Operating income decreased by 14.7% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012.  Gross profit

dollars decreased 0.9

% while operating

expenses increased

1.2% in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012.  These gross profit results largely reflect the sluggish sales environment.  Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2013 largely due to increased delivery costs including pay-related expenses.  Our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013 and contributed to the increase in pay-related expense.

Operating income decreased $1.2 million in 2012 from the prior year due to rising operating expenses.  Gross profit dollars in

creased 4.3% while operating expenses increased 5.3% in fiscal 2012 from fiscal 2011.  Contributing to the gross profit increase in fiscal 2012 were increased sales and an increase of approximately $8.3 million in the fuel surcharges charged to customers in fiscal 2012 from prior year due to higher fuel prices in fiscal 2012.

The increase in operating expenses for fiscal 2012 was largely driven by increased fuel costs.  Fuel costs in fiscal 2012 were $11.3 million greater than the prior year.  Assuming that fuel prices do not significantly rise above recent levels during fiscal 2013, we expect fuel costs and fuel surcharges for our SYGMA segment not to fluctuate significantly as compared to fiscal 2012.

Other Segment

“Other” financial information is attributable to our other operating segments, including our specialty produce and lodging industry products

segments, a company that distributes specialty imported products

and a company that distributes to international customers.  These operating segments are discussed on an aggregate basis as they do not represent reportable segments under segment accounting literature.

On an aggregate basis, our “Other” segment has had

a lower

operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco’s Broadline segment.  Sysco has acquired the operating companies within these segments in relatively recent years.  These operations generally operate in a niche within the foodservice industry

except for our lodging industry supply company

.  Each individual operation is also generally smaller in sales and scope than an average Broadline operation and each of these operating segments is considerably smaller in sales and overall scope than the Broadline segment.  In fiscal


, in the aggregate, the “Other” segment represented approximately

6.2

% of Sysco’s overall sales and

3.9

% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco’s segments, which excludes corporate expenses.

Operating income

increased 8

.3% for fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012.  The increase in operating income was primarily driven by earnings from our lodging industry products segment, our specialty import business, that was acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, and our company that distributes to international customers.  All businesses in this segment experienced increased operating income which was partially offset by charges in our specialty produce companies which incurred facility closing costs of $2.6 million in fiscal 2013.  An additional item partially offsetting the increase in operating income was an increase in retirement-related expense for these companies.  Our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013 and contributed to increased expense at these companies.

Operating income

decreased

9.2% for fiscal 2012 from fiscal 2011.  The

decrease

in operating income was caused partially due to

increased expenses in our specialty produce segment

.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Highlights

Comparisons of the cash flows from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012:

·

Cash flows from operations were $

1.5

billion this year compared to $1.4 billion last year.

·

Settlement payments to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were zero this year compared t

o $212.0 milli

on last year.

·

Capital expenditures totaled $

511.9

million

this year compared to $784.5 million last year.

·

Free cash flow was $1.0 billion this year compared to $627.9 million last year (See Non-GAAP reconciliation below under the heading “Free Cash Flow.”)

·

Cash flows for acquisition of businesses

were $

397.4

million

this year compared to $110.6 million last year.

·

Net bank borrowings were a net borrowing of

$

95.5 million

this

year compared to  a net repayment of $182.0 million last year.

·

Proceeds from exercises of share-based compensation awards was $

628.7

million

this year compared to $99.4 million last year.

·

Treasury stock purchases were $

721.6

million

this year compared to $272.3 million last year.

·

Dividends paid were $

648.3

million this year compared to $622.9 million last year.


Sources and Uses of Cash

Sysco’s strategic objectives include continuous investment in our business; these investments are funded by a combination of cash from operations and access to capital from financial markets.  Our operations historically have produced significant cash flow.  Cash generated from operations is generally allocated to:

·

working capital requirements;

·

investments in facilities, systems, fleet, other equipment and technology;

·

return of capital to shareholders, including cash dividends and share repurchases;

·

acquisitions compatible with our overall growth strategy;

·

contributions to our various retirement plans; and

·

debt repayments.

Any remaining cash generated from operations may be invested in high-quality, short-term instruments.  As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions and sales of assets and businesses, and our overall capital structure.  Any transactions resulting from these evaluations may materially impact our liquidity, borrowing capacity, leverage ratios and capital availability.

We continue to generate substantial cash flows from operations and remain in a strong financial position, however our liquidity and capital resources can be influenced by economic trends and conditions that impact our results of operations.   Uncertain economic conditions and uneven levels of consumer confidence and the resulting pressure on consumer disposable income have lowered our sales growth and impacted our cash flows from operations.  Competitive pressures in a low growth environment have also lowered our gross margins which in turn can cause our cash flows from operations to decrease.  We believe our mechanisms to manage working capital, such as credit monitoring, optimizing inventory levels and maximizing payment terms with vendors, and our mechanisms to manage the items impacting our gross profits have been sufficient to limit a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations.  We believe these mechanisms will continue prevent a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations.  As of June 29, 2013, we had $

412.3

million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately


% of which was held by our international subsidiaries generated from our earnings of international operations.  If these earnings were transferred among countries or repatriated to the United States, such amounts may be subject to additional tax obligations; however, we do not currently anticipate the need to relocate this cash.

We believe the following sources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months, while maintaining sufficient liquidity for normal operating purposes:

·

our cash flows from operations;

·

the availability of additional capital under our existing commercial paper programs, supported by our revolving credit facility, and bank lines of credit;

·

our ability to access capital from financial markets, including issuances of debt securities, either privately or under our shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Due to our strong financial position, we believe that we will continue to be able to effectively access the commercial paper market and long-term capital markets, if necessary.  We believe our cash flows from operations will improve over the long-term due to benefits from our Business Transformation Project and initiatives to improve our working capital management.

Cash Flows

Operating Activities

Fiscal


vs. Fiscal


We generated $

1.5

billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2013, as compared to $1.4 billion in fiscal 2012.  The increase of

$

107.4

million

or

7.6

%, was largely attributable to a favorable comparison year-over-year on the settlement payments made to the IRS, an increase in non-cash depreciation and amortization expense and a favorable comparison for multiemployer and company-sponsored pension expense and contributions.  These decreases were partially offset by a reduction in net earnings, the redemption of some of our COLI policies in fiscal 2012 and a reduction in taxes. Changes in working capital, including accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable, did not have a significant impact on the comparison of cash flow from operations from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012.  These items are more fully described below.

In fiscal 2012, we paid $212 million in settlement payments to the IRS.  We completed these settlement payments in fiscal 2012, which resulted in a favorable comparison in cash flow from operations related to this item in fiscal 2013.  Excluding the IRS settlement payment comparison, the combined impact of changes in deferred taxes and changes in accrued income taxes was a decrease of $171.5 in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012.  This decrease resulted primarily from


decreased tax expense of $107.4 million year over year and an increase in non-IRS tax payments of $59.6 million which were primarily foreign tax payments related to a one-time transaction as well as increased earnings in these jurisdictions.

The increase in non-cash depreciation and amortization expense of $95.6 million was primarily related to assets that were not in service in fiscal 2012 that were in service in fiscal 2013.  These assets include our software related to our Business Transformation Project, which was placed into service in August 2012, as well as various new facilities and expansions.  We do not anticipate that our depreciation and amortization expense will increase as much in fiscal 2014.

Multiemployer and company-sponsored pension expense and contributions resulted in a favorable comparison of $69.9 million in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012.  Provisions for multiemployer pension withdrawals increased $20.0 million in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012, and payments for withdrawals decreased $1.8 million.  Company-sponsored pension contributions decreased $68.9 million year over year, which was partially offset by a decrease in company-sponsored pension expense of  $20.8 million.  We anticipate making a $40.7 million payment in the first 26 weeks of fiscal 2014 related to a fiscal 2013 multiemployer pension withdrawal.

The comparison of cash flow from operations from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012 was negatively impacted by an unfavorable change of $56.4 million in other assets.  This unfavorable change resulted primarily from an increase in cash in the prior year from the redemption of approximately $75 million of our COLI policies.  These COLI policies were maintained to meet a portion of our obligations under the SERP and were replaced by less volatile corporate-owned real estate assets as part of our plan to reduce the market-driven COLI impact on our earnings.  There was no similar redemption in fiscal 2013.  Other miscellaneous changes in other assets partially offset this decrease year over year.

Fiscal


vs. Fiscal


We generated $

1.4

billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal


,

as compared to

$

1.1

b

illion in fiscal


.  The increase of $

312.7

million between fiscal


and fiscal


was largely attributable to

changes in working capital, a year-over-year reduction in tax payments and the redemption of some of our COLI policies

.  These

increases

were partially offset by

the year-over-year impact of multiemployer withdrawal provisions and payments

.

These items are more fully described below.

Changes in working capital

, specifically accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable,

contributed $

144.3

million to the

increase

in cash flow from operations in fiscal


as compared to fiscal


.

Both periods were affected by

increases

in accounts receivable and inventory, partially offset by

an increase in accounts payable resulting primarily from inflation-driven increases in product costs and sales

.  However, fiscal


was impacted by these items to a lesser extent due primarily

to working capital improvements within accounts receivable and inventory and also less growth in average daily sales in the final month of fiscal 2012 as compared to the same period in fiscal 2011

.

Tax payments were $135.2 million less in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011.  The decrease in tax payments was partially due to the company being in a prepaid position at the end of fiscal 2011 in certain jurisdictions.  In addition, various movements in taxable temporary differences caused estimated taxable income to be lower in fiscal 2012, requiring less tax payments in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011.  We made our final payments on a previous IRS tax settlement of $212 million in fiscal 2012.

We received approximately $75 million in cash from the one-time redemption during the period of some of our investments in COLI policies that we maintained to meet a portion of our obligations under the SERP.  This resulted in a positive impact to cash flow from operations in fiscal 2012 by decreasing other assets by $57.1 million.  Those redeemed COLI policies were replaced by less volatile existing corporate-owned real estate assets as part of our plan to reduce the market-driven COLI impact on our earnings.

Multiemployer withdrawal provisions and payments had a negative impact of $53.3 million on the comparison of cash flow from operations in fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012.  The net impact of withdrawal provisions and payments was a cash outflow of $11.7 million in fiscal 2012, compared to a $41.5 million accrual in fiscal 2012.

Investing Activities

Fiscal 2013

capital expenditures included:

·

fleet replacements;

·

construction of a fold-out facility in  southern California;

·

replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; British Columbia, Canada; Boston, Massachusetts and Columbia, South Carolina; and

·

investments in technology.


Fiscal 2012 capital expenditures included:

·

replacement or significant expansion of facilities in San Diego, California; Boston, Massachusetts; Lincoln, Nebraska; Syracuse, New York and central Texas;

·

construction of fold-out facilities in southern California and Long Island, New York;

·

the continued remodeling of our shared services facility purchased in fiscal 2010;

·

fleet replacements; and

·

investments in technology including our Business Transformation Project.

Fiscal 2011 capital expenditures included:

·

investments in technology including our Business Transformation Project;

·

fleet replacements;

·

replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and central Texas;

·

the purchase of land for a fold-out facility in southern California; and

·

the remodeling of our shared services facility purchased in fiscal 2010.

Capital expenditures in fiscal 2013 decreased by $

272.6

million

from fiscal 2012 primarily due to less investment in technology in fiscal 2013 related to our Business Transformation Project due to the initiation of the project’s deployment phase in August 2012.  Capital expenditures in fiscal 201


increased

by $148.1

million over fiscal 2011 primarily due to

a greater number of new facilities and expansion projects underway

in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011.  Capital expenditures in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 for our Business Transformation Project were $20.0 million, $146.2 million and $195.8 million, respectively.

We expect total capital expenditures in fiscal


to be in the range of

$550 million to $600 million

.

Fiscal


expenditures will include

facility, fleet and other equipment replacements and expansions; new facility construction, including fold-out facilities; and investments in technology.

During fiscal


, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $

397.4

million for operations acquired during fiscal


and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years.

During fiscal 2013, we acquired for cash foodservice operations in Nassau, Bahamas; San Francisco, California; San Jose, California; Stockton, California; Ontario, Canada; Quebec, Canada; Orlando, Florida; Dublin, Ireland; St. Cloud, Minnesota; Co

.

Down, Northern Ireland; Greenville, Ohio and Houston, Texas.

During fiscal


, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $

110.6

million for operations acquired during fiscal


and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years.

During fiscal 2012,

we

acquired for cash broadline foodservice operations

in Sacramento, California; Quebec, Canada; New Haven, Connecticut; Grand Rapids, Michigan; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Columbia, South Carolina and Spokane, Washington.

In addition, Sysco acquired for cash a company that distributes specialty imported products

headquartered

in Chicago, Illinois.

During fiscal 2011, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $101.1 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2011 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years.  During fiscal 2011, we acquired for cash broadline foodservice operations in central California; Los Angeles, California; Ontario, Canada; Lincoln, Nebraska; and Trenton, New Jersey.

Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow represents net cash provided from operating activities less purchases of plant and equipment plus proceeds from sales of plant and equipment.  Sysco considers free cash flow to be a non-GAAP liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of buildings, fleet, equipment and technology, which may potentially be used to pay for, among other things, strategic uses of cash including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions.  We do not mean to imply that free cash flow is necessarily available for discretionary expenditures, however, as it may be necessary that we use it to make mandatory debt service or other payments.  As a result of reduced capital spending and increased cash provided by operating activities, free cash flow for fiscal 2013 increased

61.7%, or $387.4

million, to $1.0 billion as compared to fiscal 2012.  Increased cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by increased capital spending, resulted in free cash flow for fiscal 2012 increasing 32.4%, or $153.7 million, to $627.9 million as compared to fiscal 2011.  We expect the growth rate in free cash flow for fiscal 2014 will not be as significant as the growth rate experienced in fiscal 2013.


Free cash flow should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company’s liquidity for the periods presented.  An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP.  In the tables that follow, free cash flow for each period presented is reconciled to net cash provided by operating activities.

Financing Activities

Equit

y Transactions

Proceeds from exercises of share-based compensation awards

were $

628.7

million in fiscal


, $

99.4

million in fiscal


and $

332.7

million in fiscal

2011.

The higher level of proceeds in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2011 was due to an increase in the number of options exercised in these years, as compared to fiscal 2012.  The level

of option exercises, and thus proceeds, will vary from period to period and is largely dependent on movements in our stock price.

We traditionally have engaged in Board-approved share repurchase programs.

The number of shares acquired and their cost during the past three fiscal years were

21,672,403

shares for $

721.6

million in fiscal


,


,000,000 shares for $

272.3

million in fiscal


and

10,000,000

shares for $

291.6

million in fiscal


.  There were

275,000

additional shares repurchased throug

h August 14, 2013, resulting in a

remaining authorization by our Board of Directors to repurchase up to

1,214,197

shares, based on the trades made through that date.  Our share repurchase strategy is to purchase enough shares to keep our average shares outstanding relatively constant

over time

.

Due to a high level of stock option exercises in fiscal 2013, more shares were repurchased to meet this strategy. The number of shares we repurchase in fiscal 2014 will be dependent on the level of stock option exercises; however, we believe that share repurchases will be significantly less than the amount repurchased in fiscal 2013 because fewer options are now available for exercise than in fiscal 2013.

We have made divide

nd payments to our shareholders in each fiscal year since our company inception over 40 years ago.  We target a dividend payout of 40% to 50% of net earnings.

We paid in

excess

of that range

in fiscal 2013

and fiscal 2012

primarily due to increased expenses from our Business Transformation Project.

We believe as we realize benefits from this project, our dividend payout will return to this targeted range.

Dividends paid were $

648.3

million, or

$

1.10

per share, in fiscal


, $

622.9

million, or $

1.06

per share, in fiscal


and $

597.1

million, or $

1.02

per share, in fiscal


.

In May


, we declared our regular quarterly dividend for the first quarter of fiscal


o

f $0.28 per s

hare,

which was paid in July


.

In November 2000, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement covering 30,000,000 shares of common stock to be offered from time to time in connection with acquisitions.

As of August 14, 2013

, 29,477,835 s

hares remained available for issuance under this registration statement.

Debt Activity and Borrowing Availability

Short-term Borrowings

We have uncommitted bank lines of credit, which provided for unsecured borrowings for working capital of u

p to $95.0 mi

llion, of whic

h none was

outstanding as of

June 29, 2013.  Outstanding borrowings under this facility were $4.0 million as of

Augu

st 14, 2013

.

In September 2012, the company’s Irish subsidiary, Pallas Foods, entered into a €75.0 million (Euro) multicurrency revolving credit facility, which will be utilized for capital needs for the company’s European subsidiaries.  This facility replaces the subsidiary’s


previous

€10.0

mi

llion

(Euro) committed facility

for unsecured borrowings.  The new facility provides for unsecured borrowings and expires September 25, 2013, but is subject to extension.  Outstanding borrowings under this facility wer

e €32.0 mi

llion (Euro) as of June 29, 2013, located within Notes payable on the consolidated balance sheet.  Outstanding borrowings under this facility were €32.0 million (Euro) as of August 14, 2013.

On June 30, 2011, a Canadian subsidiary of Sysco entered into a short-term demand loan facility for the purpose of facilitating a distribution from the Canadian subsidiary to Sysco, and Sysco concurrently entered into an agreement with the bank to guarantee the loan.  The amount borrowed was $182.0 million and was repaid in full on July 4, 2011.

Commercial Paper and Revolving Credit Facility

We have a Board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $

1.3

billion.

In December 2011, we terminated our previously existing revolving credit facility that supported the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs.  At the same time, Sysco and one of its subsidiaries, Sysco International, ULC, entered into a new $1.0 billion credit facility supporting the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs.  This facility provides for borrowings in both U.S. and Canadian dollars.  Borrowings by Sysco International, ULC under the credit agreement are guaranteed by Sysco, and borrowings by Sysco and Sysco International, ULC under the credit agreement are guaranteed by all the wholly-owned subsidiaries of Sysco that are guarantors of the company’s senior notes and debentures.  The original facility in the amount of $1.0 billion expires on

December 29, 2016

.  In December 2012, a portion of the facility was extended for an additional year.  This extended facility, which expires on December 29, 2017, is for $925.0 million of the original $1.0 billion facility, but is subject to further extension.

As of June 29, 2013, commercial paper issuances outstanding were $95.5 million.  As of August 14, 2013, commercial paper issuances outstanding were $76.0 million

.

During fiscal


,


and


, aggregate outstanding commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings ranged from approximately zero to $

330.0

million, zero to $

563.1

million, and zero to $

330.3

million, respectively.

During fiscal


,


and


, our aggregate commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings had a weighted average interest rate of

0.16

%,

0.16

% and

0.25

%, respectively.

Fixed Rate Debt

Included in current maturities of long-term debt as of June 29, 2013 are the 4.6% senior notes totaling $200.0 million, which mature in March 2014.  It is our intention to fund the repayment of these notes at maturity through cash on hand, cash flow from operations, issuances of commercial paper, senior notes or a combination thereof.

In February


,

we

filed with the SEC an automatically effective well-known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of

common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and guarantees of

debt securities that may be issued from time to time.

In June 2012, we repaid the 6.1% senior notes totaling $200.0 million at maturity utilizing a combination of cash flow from operations and commercial paper issuances.

In May 2012, we entered into an

agreement with a notional amount of $200.0 million to lock in a component of the interest rate on our then forecasted debt offering.  We designated this derivative as a cash flow hedge

of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on

a portion of the then forecasted June 2012 debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate.  In June 2012, in conjunction with the issuance of the $450.0 million senior notes maturing in fiscal 2022, we settled the treasury lock, locking in the effective yields on the related debt.  Upon settlement, we received cash of $0.7 million, which represented the fair value of the swap agreement at the time of settlement.  This amount is being amortized as an offset to interest expense over the 10-year term of the debt, and the unamortized balance is reflected as a gain, net of tax, Accumulated other comprehensive loss.

In

June 2012

,

we

issued

0.55

% senior notes totaling $

300.0

million

due

June 12, 2015

(the


notes) and

2.6

% senior notes totaling $

450.0

million

due

June 12, 2022

(the


notes) under its February


shelf registration.  The


and


notes, which were priced at

99.319

% and

98.722

% of par, respectively, are unsecured, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and include a redemption provision which allows Sysco to retire the notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the note holders are not penalized by early redemption.  Proceeds from the notes will be utilized over a period of time for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions, refinancing of debt, working capital, share repurchases and capital expenditures.

In February 2013, we repaid the 4.2% senior notes totaling $250.0 million at maturity utilizing a combination of cash flow from operations and cash on hand.


In August 2013, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $500 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2018 to floating rate debt.  This transaction was entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost and was designated as a fair value hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates.

Total Debt

Total debt as of

June 29, 2013

was $

3.0

billion of which approximately


% was at fixed rates with a weighted average of

4.7

% and an average life of


years, and the remainder was at floating rates with a weighted average of

1.4

% and an average li

fe of one

year.

Certain loan agreements contain typical debt covenants to protect note holders, including provisions to maintain the company’s long-term debt to total capital ratio below a specified level

.  We are

currently in compliance wi

th

all debt covenants.

Other

As part of normal business activities, we issue letters of credit through major banking institutions as required by certain vendor and insurance agreements.

In addition, in connection with our audits in certain tax jurisdictions, we have posted of letters of credit

in order to proceed to the appeals process.  As of

June 29, 2013

, letters of credit outstanding were $

42.2

million.

Other Considerations

-

Multiemployer Pension Plans

As discussed in Note


,

“

Multiemployer Employee Benefit Plans

”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in

Item 8

, we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees.

Under certain circumstances, including our voluntary withdrawal or a mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from certain underfunded plans, we would be required to make payments to the plans for our proportionate share of the multiemployer plan’s unfunded vested liabilities.  We believe that one of the above-mentioned events is reasonably possible with certain plans in which we participate and estimate our share of withdrawal liability for these plans could have been as much

as $80.0 million

as of June 29, 2013 and as much as $90.0 million as of August 14, 2013, based on the latest available information available as of each date.  This estimate excludes plans for which we have recorded withdrawal liabilities or where the likelihood of the above-mentioned events is deemed remote.  Due to the lack of current information, we believe our current share of the withdrawal liability could materially differ from this estimate.

Required contributions to multiemployer plans could increase in the future as these plans strive to improve their funding levels.  In addition, pension-related legislation in the United States requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding.  We believe that any unforeseen requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability and excise taxes would be funded through cash flow from operations, borrowing capacity or a combination of these items.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.


Contractual Obligations

The following table sets forth, as of

June 29, 2013

, certain information concerning our obligations and commitments to make contractual future payments:

(1)

The estimate of the timing of future payments under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan involves the use of certain assumptions, including retirement ages and payout periods.

(2)

Includes estimated contributions to the unfunded SERP and other postretirement benefit plans made in amounts needed to fund benefit payments for vested participants in these plans through fisc

al 2023, based o

n actuarial assumptions.

(3)

Represents voluntary withdrawal liabilities recorded and excludes normal contributions required under our collective bargaining agreements.

(4)

Unrecognized tax benefits relate to uncertain tax positions recorded under accounting standards related to uncertain tax positions.  As of

June 29, 2013

, we had a liability of $

108.3

million for unrecognized tax benefits for all tax jurisdictions and $

36.8

million for related interest that could result in cash payment.

We

are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of non-current payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time.  Accordingly, the related non-current balances have not been reflected in the "Payments Due by Period" section of the table.

(5)

Includes payments on floating rate debt based on rates as of

June 29, 2013

, assuming amount remains unchanged until maturity, and payments on fixed rate debt based on maturity dates.  The impact of our outstanding fixed-to-floating interest rate swap on the fixed rate debt interest payments is included as well based on the floating rates in effect as of

June 29, 2013

.

(6)

Provides the estimated minimum contribution to the Retirement Plan through fisc

al 2023 t

o

meet ERISA minimum funding requirements under the assumption that we only make minimum funding requirement contributions each year, based on actuarial assumptions.

(7)

For purposes of this table, purchase obligations include agreements for purchases of product in the normal course of business, for which all significant terms have been confirmed, including minimum quantities resulting from our sourcing initiative.

Such amounts included in the table above are based on estimates.

Purchase obligations also includes amounts committed with

various

third party

service providers

to provide

information technology

services

for period up to

fisca

l 2016 (Se

e discussion under Note


,

“Commitments and Contingencies”, to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in

Item 8

), fixed electricity agreements and fixed fuel purchase commitments.

Purchase obligations exclude full requirements electricity contracts where no stated minimum purchase volume is required.

Certain acquisitions involve contingent consideration, typically payable only in the event that certain operating results are attained or certain outstanding contingencies are resolved.

Aggregate contingent consideration amounts outstanding as of

June 29, 2013

were

$


8.


million

.

This amount is not included in the table above

.


Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses in the accompanying financial statements. Significant accounting policies employed by Sysco are presented in the notes to the financial statements.

Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations.

These policies require our most subjective or complex judgments, often employing the use of estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.

We have reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors the development and selection of the critical accounting policies and estimates and this related disclosure.

Our most critical accounting policies and estimates pertain to the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, self-insurance programs, company-sponsored pension plans, income taxes, vendor consideration, goodwill and intangible assets and share-based compensation.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

We evaluate the collectability of accounts receivable and determine the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts based on a combination of factors.

We utilize specific criteria to determine uncollectible receivables to be written off, including whether a customer has filed for or has been placed in bankruptcy, has had accounts referred to outside parties for collection or has had accounts past due over specified periods.

Allowances are recorded for all other receivables based on analysis of historical trends of write-offs and recoveries.

In addition, in circumstances where we are aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligation, a specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded to reduce the receivable to the net amount reasonably expected to be collected.

Our judgment is required as to the impact of certain of these items and other factors as to ultimate realization of our accounts receivable.  If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, additional allowances may be required.

Self-Insurance Program

We maintain a self-insurance program covering portions of workers’ compensation, general liability and vehicle liability costs.

The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers.

We also maintain a fully self-insured group medical program.  Liabilities associated with these risks are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, medical cost trends, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions.

Projections of future loss expenses are inherently uncertain because of the random nature of insurance claims occurrences and could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends.

In an attempt to mitigate the risks of workers’ compensation, vehicle and general liability claims, safety procedures and awareness programs have been implemented.

Company-Sponsored Pension Plans

Amounts related to defined benefit plans recognized in the financial statements are determined on an actuarial basis.

Two

of the more critical assumptions in the actuarial calculations are the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits and the expected rate of return on plan assets.

Our Retirement Plan was frozen in fiscal 2013 and is only open to a small number of employees.  Our SERP was frozen in fiscal 2013.  Due to these plan freezes, our assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation is no longer a critical assumption.

For guidance in determining the discount rates, we calculate the implied rate of return on a hypothetical portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximates the estimated payouts of the pension plan.

The discount rate assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate.

The discount rate for determining fiscal


net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the

June 30, 2012

measurement date, decreased


basis points to

4.81

%.

The discount rate for determining fiscal


net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the

June 30, 2012

measurement date, decreased


basis points to

4.89

%.

The SERP was remeasured during fiscal 2013 upon approval to freeze the plan.  The remeasured discount rate was 3.96%.

The combined effect of these discount rate changes increased our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal


by an estimated

$

87.


million.

The discount rate for determining fiscal


net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the

June 29, 2013

measurement date,

increased


basis points to

5.32

%.

The discount rate for determining fiscal


net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the

June 29, 2013

measurement date,

in

creased


basis points to

4.94

%

, as compared to the discount rate upon the remeasurement of the plan during fiscal 2013

.

The combined effect of these discount rate changes will

de

crease our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal


by an estimated $

5.0

million.

A 100 basis point increase

(

or decrease

)

in the discount rates for fiscal 2014 would

de

crease

(

or

in

crease

)

Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension cost by $10.1 million.

Now that Sysco’s pension plans are frozen, net company-sponsored pension cost is not as sensitive to discount rate changes as compared to when these plans were active.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan was

7.75

%

for

fiscal 2013 and

fiscal


.  The expectations of future returns are derived from a mathematical asset model that incorporates assumptions as to the various asset class returns, reflecting a combination of historical performance analysis and the forward-looking views of the financial markets regarding the yield on bonds, historical returns of the major stock markets and returns on alternative investments.

Although not determinative of future returns, the effective annual rate of return on plan assets, developed using geometric/compound averaging, was approximately


7.4

%,

7.4

%,

2.8

%, and

15.4%, over th

e 20-year, 10-year, 5-year and 1-year periods ended December 31,


, respectively.

In addition, in

eight

of the

last 15 years

, the actual return on plan assets has exceeded


%.

The rate of return assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate.

The expected return on plan assets impacts the recorded amount of net pension costs.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan is

7.75

% for fiscal


.

A 100 basis point increase (decrease) in the assumed rate of return for fiscal


would decrease (increase) Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension costs for fiscal


by approximately $

24.9

million.

Pension accounting standards require the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans in the statement of financial position, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax.  The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of

June 29, 2013

was a charge, net of tax, of $

575.2

million.  The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of

June 30, 2012

was a charge, net of tax, of $

823.9

million.

We made cash contributions to our company-sponsored pension plans of $

93.6

million and $

162.4

million in fiscal years


and


, respectively.

The $70.0 million contribution to the Retirement Plan in fiscal 2013 was voluntary, as there was no minimum required contribution for the calendar 2012 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements.  The $140.0 million contribution to the Retirement Plan in fiscal 2012 exceeded the minimum required contribution for the calendar 2011 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirement

s.

There are no required contributions to the Retirement Plan to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements in fiscal 2014.

The

estimated fiscal


contributions to fund benefit payments for the SERP plan are

approximately

$


million

.

Income Taxes

The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.

Our provision for income taxes primarily reflects a combination of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state, as well as foreign jurisdictions.

Jurisdictional tax law changes, increases or decreases in permanent differences between book and tax items, accruals or adjustments of accruals for unrecognized tax benefits or valuation allowances, and our change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate.

Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions.  We believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable; however, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material.  To the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established, or pay amounts in excess of recorded liabilities, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected.

An unfavorable tax settlement generally would require use of our cash and may result in an increase in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution.

A favorable tax settlement may be recognized as a reduction in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution.

Vendor Consideration

We recognize consideration received from vendors when the services performed in connection with the monies received are completed and when the related product has been sold by Sysco.

There are several types of cash consideration received from vendors.

In many instances, the vendor consideration is in the form of a specified amount per case or per pound.

In these instances, we will recognize the vendor consideration as a reduction of cost of sales when the product is sold.

In some instances, vendor consideration is received upon receipt of inventory in our distribution facilities.  We estimate the amount needed to reduce our inventory based on inventory turns until the product is sold.  Our inventory turnover is usually less than one month; therefore, amounts deferred against inventory do not require long-term estimation.  In the situations where the vendor consideration is not related directly to specific product purchases, we will recognize these as a reduction of cost of sales when the earnings process is complete, the related service is performed and the amounts realized.  Historically, adjustments to our estimates related to vendor consideration have not been significant

.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Goodwill and intangible assets represent the excess of consideration paid over the fair value of tangible net assets acquired. Certain assumptions and estimates are employed in determining the fair value of assets acquired, including goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as determining the allocation of goodwill to the appropriate reporting unit.

In addition, annually in our fourth quarter or more frequently as needed, we assess the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles by determining whether the fair values of the applicable reporting units exceed the carrying values of these assets. The reporting units used in assessing goodwill impairment are our

ten

operating segments as described in Note


, “Business Segment Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in

Item 8

.  The components within each of our

ten

operating segments have similar economic characteristics and therefore are aggregated into

ten

reporting units

.


We arrive at our estimates of fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow and earnings multiple models.

The results from each of these models are then weighted and combined into a single estimate of fair value for each of our

ten

operating segments.

We use a


% weighting for our discounted cash flow valuation and


% for the earnings multiple models giving greater emphasis to our discounted cash flow model because the forecasted operating results that serve as a basis for the analysis incorporate management’s outlook and anticipated changes for the businesses

consistent with a market participant

.

The primary assumptions used in these various models include estimated earnings multiples of comparable acquisitions in the industry including control premiums, earnings multiples on acquisitions completed by Sysco in the past, future cash flow estimates of the reporting units, which are dependent on internal forecasts and projected growth rates, and weighted average cost of capital, along with working capital and capital expenditure requirements

.

When possible, we use observable market inputs in our models to arrive at the fair values of our reporting units.

We update our projections used in our discounted cash flow model based on historical performance and changing business conditions for each of our reporting units.

Our estimates of fair value contain uncertainties requiring management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies.  Actual results could differ from these assumptions and projections, resulting in the company revising its assumptions and, if required, recognizing an impairment l

oss.

There were no impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles recorded as a result of assessment in fiscal 2013, 2012 or

2011.

Our past estimates of fair value for fiscal


and


have not been materially different when revised to include subsequent years’ actual results.

Sysco has not made any material changes in its impairment assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years.  We do not believe the estimates used in the analysis are reasonably likely to change materially in the future but we will continue to assess the estimates in the future based on the expectations of the reporting units.  In the fiscal


analysis our estimates of fair value did not require additional analysis; however, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for the following reporting units if our estimates of fair value were decreased by the following amounts.

First

, our specialty produce operations would have required additional analysis if the estimated fair value had been


%

lower.

Second

, our European Broadline company would have required additional analysis if the estimated fair value had been


% lower.

A

s of

June 29, 2013

, these

two

reporting units had goodwill aggregating $

381.0

million.  For the remainder of our reporting units

,

which a

s of

June 29, 2013

had goodwill aggregating $

1.5

billion, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for a reporting unit if the estimated fair value for any of these reporting units had declined by greater than


%

.

Certain reporting units (

Caribbean Broadline,

European Broadline, specialty produce, custom-cut meat, lodging industry products

, imported specialty products

and international distribution operations) have a greater proportion of goodwill recorded to estimated fair value as compared to the United States Broadline, Canadian Broadline or SYGMA reporting units.  This is primarily due to these businesses having been

more

recently acquired, and as a result there has been less history of organic growth than in the United States Broadline, Canadian Broadline and SYGMA reporting units.  In addition, these businesses also have lower levels of cash flow than the United States Broadline reporting unit.  As such, these reporting units have a greater risk of future impairment if their operations were to suffer a significant downturn.

Share-Based Compensation

We provide compensation benefits to employees and non-employee directors under several share-based payment arrangements including various employee stock incentive plans, the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan, the Management Incentive Plan and various non-employee director plans.

As of

June 29, 2013

, there was $

69.4

million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements.

That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of

2.41

years.

The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.

Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of Sysco’s stock, implied volatilities from traded options on Sysco’s stock and other factors.

We utilize historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination behavior within the valuation model; separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes.

Expected dividend yield is estimated based on the historical pattern of dividends and the average stock price for the year preceding the option grant.

The risk-free rate for the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.

The fair value of each restricted stock unit award granted with a dividend equivalent is based on the company’s stock price as of the date of grant.  For restricted stock units granted without dividend equivalents, the fair value is reduced by the present value of expected dividends during the vesting period.

The fair value of the stock issued under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan is calculated as the difference between the stock price and the employee purchase price.

The fair value of restricted stock granted to employees is based on the stock price on grant date.  The application of a discount to the fair value of a restricted stock grant is dependent upon whether or not each individual grant contains a post-vesting restriction.


The compensation cost related to these share-based awards is recognized over the requisite service period.

The requisite service period is generally the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award.  The compensation cost related to stock issuances resulting from employee purchases of stock under the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan is recognized during the quarter in which the employee payroll withholdings are made.

O

ur

share-based

awards are generally subject to graded vesting over a service period.

W

e will recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award.

In addition, certain of

our

share-based

awards

provide that the

awards

continue to vest as if the

award holder

continued to be an employee or director if the

award holder

meets certain age and years of service thresholds upon retirement.

In these cases,

we

will recognize compensation cost for such awards over the period from the grant date to the date the employee or director first becomes eligible to retire with the options continuing to vest after retirement.

Our option grants include options that qualify as incentive stock options for income tax purposes.

In the period the compensation cost related to incentive stock options is recorded, a corresponding tax benefit is not recorded as it is assumed that we will not receive a tax deduction related to such incentive stock options.

We may be eligible for tax deductions in subsequent periods to the extent that there is a disqualifying disposition of the incentive stock option.

In such cases, we would record a tax benefit related to the tax deduction in an amount not to exceed the corresponding cumulative compensation cost recorded in the financial statements on the particular options multiplied by the statutory tax rate.

Forward-Looking

Statements

Certain statements made herein that look forward in time or express management’s expectations or beliefs with respect to the occurrence of future events are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

They include statements about Sysco’s ability to increase its sales and market share and grow earnings,

expectations regarding pricing and margin pressure, cost per case reductions and sales case growth,

the continuing impact of economic conditions on consumer confidence and our business, sales and expense trends, including

without limitation,

expectations regarding defined contribution

plan

costs and pension costs, anticipated multiemployer pension related liabilities and contributions to various multiemployer pension plans, expectations regarding potential payments of unrecognized tax benefits and interest, expectations regarding share repurchases, dividend payments, expected trends in fuel pricing, usage costs and surcharges, our expectation regarding the provision for losses on accounts receivable, expected implementation, costs and benefits of the ERP system, estimated expenses and capital expenditures related to our Business Transformation Project,

beliefs regarding future ERP conversions at our operating companies,

expectations

regarding

our other Business Transformation initiatives including cost

transformation and

product cost reduction and category management

initiatives,

beliefs regarding the timeline for the realization of benefits from each of our initiatives within our Business Transformation Project, expectation regarding

the number of long-term contracts increasing as we progress with our category management initiative,

our plan to continue to explore and identify opportunities to grow in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core foodservice distribution business, expectations regarding future acquisitions and the contributions of acquisitions to our business and future revenues, SYGMA’s growth prospects in fiscal 2014,

the loss of SYGMA’s largest customer not having a material adverse effect on Sysco as a whole,  compliance with laws and government regulations not having a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, anticipated acquisitions and capital expenditures and the sources of financing for them, continued competitive advantages and positive results from strategic initiatives,

expectations that depreciation and amortization expense will increase at a lower rate in fiscal 2014 than the rate in fiscal 2013, expectations that depreciation and amortization expense will increase at a lower rate in fiscal 2014 than the rate in fiscal 2013,

anticipated company-sponsored pension plan liabilities, our expectations regarding cash flow from operations,

our intentions regarding the repayment of debt,

the impact of initiatives to improve working capital, the availability and adequacy of insurance to cover liabilities, predictions regarding the impact of changes in estimates used in impairment analyses, the anticipated impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and Sysco’s ability to meet future cash requirements.

These statements are based on management’s current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially due in part to the risk factors discussed at Item 1.A. in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere.

In addition, the success of Sysco’s strategic initiatives could be affected by conditions in the economy and the industry and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses, including fuel costs.

Expected trends related to fuel costs and usage are impacted by fluctuations in the economy generally and numerous factors affecting the oil industry that are beyond our control.  Our efforts to lower our cost of goods sold may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including actions by our competitors and/or customers.  We have experienced delays in the implementation of our Business Transformation Project  and the expected costs of our Business Transformation Project may be greater or less than currently expected, as we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget.  Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages, or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation process.  As implementation of the ERP system and

other initiatives within

the Business Transformation Project begins, there may be changes in design or timing that impact near-term expense and cause us to revise the project calendar and budget, and additional hiring and training of employees and consultants may be required, which could also impact project expense and timing.

Our Business Transformation Project initiatives related to ERP implementation, cost transformation and produce cost reduction may not provide the expected benefits or cost savings in a timely fashion, if at all.  If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost


disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease.  Defined contribution plan costs are impacted by the number of employees participating in the plan and the level of contributions made by each employee.

Company-sponsored pension plan liabilities are impacted by a number of factors including the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits, the assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation levels and the expected rate of return on plan assets.  The amount of shares repurchased in a given period is subject to a number of factors, including available cash and our general working capital needs at the time.

Meeting our dividend target objectives depends on our level of earnings.

Our plans with respect to growth in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core business are subject to the company’s other strategic initiatives and plans and economic conditions generally.  Legal proceedings are impacted by events, circumstances and individuals beyond the control of Sysco.  The need for additional borrowing or other capital is impacted by factors that include capital expenditures or acquisitions in excess of those currently anticipated, stock repurchases at historical levels, or other unexpected cash requirements.

Plans regarding the repayment of debt are subject to change at any time based on management’s assessment of the overall needs of the company.

The anticipated impact of compliance with laws and regulations also involves the risk that estimates may turn out to be materially incorrect, and laws and regulations, as well as methods of enforcement, are subject to change.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

We do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes.  Our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk.  Floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates.  Fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates.

We manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position.  The major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions.

Fiscal


As of

June 29, 2013

, we had

$95.5 million of

commercial paper outstanding.  Total debt as of

June 29, 2013

was $

2.9

billion, of which approximately


% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreement.

In fiscal 2010, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $250 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2013

(the fiscal 2013 swap) and

$200 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014

(the fiscal 2014 swap)

to floating rate debt.

Both transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost.

These transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates.

The swap agreement related to the fiscal 2013 debt was settled upon maturity of the senior notes in February 2013, leaving one remaining outstanding swap agreement as of June 29, 2013.

As of

June 29, 2013

, the fiscal


swap was recognized a

s an asset withi

n the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within

prepaid expenses and other current assets  of $3.0

million.  The fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is

4.6

% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month LIBOR which resets quarterly.


The following tables present our interest rate position as of June 29, 2013.  All amounts are stated in U.S. dollar equivalents.

(1)

Includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through an interest rate swap agreement.

Rate A – three-month LIBOR

Fiscal


As of

June 30, 2012

, we had

no

commercial paper outstanding.  Total debt as of

June 30, 2012

was $

3.0

billion, of which approximately


% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements.

In May 2012, we entered into an agreement with a notional amount of $200.0 million to lock in a component of the interest rate on our then forecasted debt offering.

We designated this derivative as a cash flow hedge

of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on

a portion of the June 2012 forecasted debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate.  In June 2012, in conjunction with the issuance of the $450.0 million senior notes maturing in fiscal 2022, we settled the treasury lock, locking in the effective yields on the related debt.

As of

June 30, 2012

, the fiscal


swap was recognized as

an asset

within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within

prepaid expenses and other current assets  of $2.5

million.  The fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is

4.2

% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month LIBOR which resets quarterly

.  As of June 30, 2012, the fiscal 2014 swap was

recognized

as

an asset

within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within

other

assets of $

6.2

million.  The fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is

4.6

% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month LIBOR which resets quarterly.


The following tables present our interest rate position as of June 30, 2012.  All amounts are stated in U.S. dollar equivalents.

(1)

Includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements.

Rate A – three-month LIBOR

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency.  To the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary’s functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk.  We will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders’ equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into U.S. dollars.  Our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars.

The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars

did not have a significant impact

on

sales

in fiscal 2013 when

compared to fiscal 201

2 or in fiscal 2012 when compared to fiscal 2011

.

The impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share

w

as not material in fi

scal


or

fiscal


.

A 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal


weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal


sales by

1.1

% and woul

d not have materially impa

cted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share

.  We do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks.

Fuel Price Risk

Due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices.

The price and availability of diesel

fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control.  Increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas.  First, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases.  Second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers.  Third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers.  During fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented

approximately

0.7%, 0

.7

% and

0.6

%

of sales, respectively.  Fuel costs, excluding any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, incurred by

S

ysco

increased by

approximately $

18.9

million

in fiscal

2013 from fiscal 2012

and

by

$

39.8

million

in fiscal

2012 over fiscal 2011.

We routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements.

As of

June 29, 2013

, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $


million throu

gh August 2014.  Thes

e contracts will lock in the price of approximate

ly 60% to 65% of our

fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices

slight

ly lower t

han the current market price for diesel.


Assuming that fuel prices do not rise significantly over recent levels during fiscal 2014, fuel costs, exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expect

ed to increase by approximately $10 to $20 million

as compared to fiscal 2013.

Our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market

price projections for diesel

,

the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place

for fiscal 2014

and estimates of fuel consumption.  Actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates.

A 10

% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price use

d in our estimates above would result in a

potentia

l increase of $20 million to $30 million.

Investment Risk

Our company-sponsored

qualified pension

p

lan

(Retirement Plan)

holds investments in

public and private

equity

,

fixed income securities

and real estate funds

. The amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan’s assets

and discount rates used to calculate the plan’s liability

.

F

luctuations in asset values

can

caus

e

the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase

and

can

result in a reduction to shareholders’ equity

on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end

, which is when this plan’s funded status

is

measured.

Also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets.

To the extent the financial markets experience declines, our

anticipated

future contributions and funded status will be affected for future years.  A 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments h

e

ld by our company-sponsored Retirement Plan

at the plan’s fiscal year end (December 31, 2012

)

wo

uld not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2014; however, this unfavorable change would increa

se our pension expense for fiscal


by $

26.8

million and would reduce our shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet as of

June 29, 2013

by $

155.1

million

.


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

S

YSCO

CORPORATION

AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the information is set forth in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.


REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The management of Sysco Corporation (“Sysco”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company

.

Sysco’s internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements

.

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations

.

Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.

Sysco’s management assessed the effectiveness of Sysco’s internal control over financial reporting as of

June 29, 2013.

In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

.

Based on this assessment, management concluded that, as of

June 29, 2013

, Sysco’s internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.

Ernst & Young LLP has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of Sysco’s internal control over financial reporting as of

June 29, 2013

.


REPORT

OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

of

Sysco Corporation

We have audited

Sysco Corporation (a Delaware Corporation) and subsidiaries’ (the “Company”)

internal control over financial reporting as of June 29, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).

Sysco Corporation’s

management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying

Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion,

Sysco Corporation

maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 29, 2013, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the

consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012, and the related consolidated results of operations, statements of comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 29, 2013

of Sysco Corporation and subsidiaries and our report dated

August 26, 2013

expressed

an unqualified opinion thereon

.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Houston, Texas

August



,




REPORT

OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

of

Sysco Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Sysco Corporation (a Delaware Corporation) and subsidiaries (the ‘’Company”)  as of June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012, and the related consolidated results of operations,

statements of  comprehensive income,

shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 29, 2013. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 29, 2013, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 29, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 26, 2013 expressed

an unqualified opinion thereon

.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Houston, Texas

August



,




SYSCO

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


SYSCO

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


SYSCO

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


SYSCO

CHANGES IN CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


SYSCO

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY

OF A

CCOUNTING POLICIES

Business and Consolidation

Sysco Corporation, acting through its subsidiaries and divisions,

(Sysco or the company), is engaged in the marketing and distribution of a wide range of food and related products primarily to the foodservice or food-away-from-home industry.  These services are performed for approximately 425,000 customers from 193 distribution facilities located throughout the United States,

Bahamas,

Canada

, Ireland

and

Northern

Ireland.

Sysco’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30

th

.  This resulted in a 52-week year ending June 29, 2013 for fiscal 2013, June 30, 2012 for fiscal 2012 and, July 2, 2011 for fiscal 2011.

The accompanying financial statements include the accounts of Sysco and its consolidated subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany transactions and account balances have been eliminated.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses.  Actual results could differ from the estimates used.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash includes cash equivalents such as time deposits, certificates of deposit, short-term investments and all highly liquid instruments with original maturities of three months or less, which are recorded at fair value.

Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable consist primarily of trade receivables from customers and receivables from suppliers for marketing or incentive programs.  Sysco determines the past due status of trade receivables based on contractual terms with each customer.  Sysco evaluates the collectability of accounts receivable and determines the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts based on a combination of factors.  The company utilizes specific criteria to determine uncollectible receivables to be written off including whether a customer has filed for or been placed in bankruptcy, has had accounts referred to outside parties for collection or has had accounts past due over specified periods.  Allowances are recorded for all other receivables based on an analysis of historical trends of write-offs and recoveries.  In addition, in circumstances where the company is aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligation to Sysco, a specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded to reduce the receivable to the net amount reasonably expected to be collected.

Inventories

Inventories consisting primarily of finished goods include food and related products and lodging products held for resale and are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market.  Elements of costs include the purchase price of the product and freight charges to deliver the product to the company’s warehouses and are net of certain cash or non-cash consideration received from vendors (see “Vendor Consideration”).

Plant and Equipment

Capital additions, improvements and major replacements are classified as plant and equipment and are carried at cost.  Depreciation is recorded using the straight-line method, which reduces the book value of each asset in equal amounts over its estimated useful life, and is included within operating expenses in the consolidated results of operations.  Maintenance, repairs and minor replacements are charged to earnings when they are incurred.  Upon the disposition of an asset, its accumulated depreciation is deducted from the original cost, and any gain or loss is reflected in current earnings.

Certain internal and external costs related to the acquisition and development of internal use software being built within our Business Transformation Project are capitalized within plant and equipment during the application development stages of the project.  Amortization commenced in August 2012 as the project entered the deployment stage.  Additional costs are capitalized for added software that is in the application development stage of the project.

Applicable interest charges incurred during the construction of new facilities and development of software for internal use are capitalized as one of the elements of cost and are amortized over the assets’ estimated useful lives.  Interest capitalized for the past three fiscal years was $4.2 million in fiscal 2013, $20.8 million in fiscal 2012 and $13.9 million in fiscal 2011.


Long-Lived Assets

Management reviews long-lived assets for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.  Cash flows expected to be generated by the related assets are estimated over the asset’s useful life based on updated projections on an undiscounted basis.  If the evaluation indicates that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable, the potential impairment is measured at fair value.

Goodwill and Intangibles

Goodwill and intangibles represent the excess of cost over the fair value of tangible net assets acquired.  Goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized.  Goodwill is assigned to the reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of a business combination.  The recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles is assessed annually, or more frequently as needed when events or changes have occurred that would suggest an impairment of carrying value, by determining whether the fair values of the applicable reporting units exceed their carrying values.  The reporting units used to assess goodwill impairment are the company’s 10 operating segments as described in Note


, “Business Segment Information.” The components within each of the 10 operating segments have similar economic characteristics and therefore are aggregated into 10 reporting units.  The evaluation of fair value requires the use of projections, estimates and assumptions as to the future performance of the operations in performing a discounted cash flow analysis, as well as assumptions regarding sales and earnings multiples that would be applied in comparable acquisitions.

Intangibles with definite lives are amortized over their useful lives

in a manner consistent with underlying cash flow

, which generally range

s

from three to ten years.  Management reviews finite-lived intangibles for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.  Cash flows expected to be generated by the finite-lived intangibles are estimated over the intangible asset’s useful life based on updated projections on an undiscounted basis.  If the evaluation indicates that the carrying value of the finite-lived intangible asset may not be recoverable, the potential impairment is measured at fair value.

Restricted Cash

Sysco is required by its insurers to collateralize a part of the self-insured portion of its workers’ compensation and liability claims.  Sysco has chosen to satisfy these collateral requirements by depositing funds in insurance trusts or by issuing letters of credit.  All amounts in restricted cash at June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012 represented funds deposited in insurance trusts.

Derivative Financial Instruments

All derivatives are recognized as assets or liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets at fair value.  Gains or losses on derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are recognized immediately in the consolidated results of operations, along with the offsetting gain or loss related to the underlying hedged item.

Gains or losses on derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recorded as a separate component of shareholders’ equity at their settlement, whereby gains or losses are reclassified to the Consolidated Results of Operations in conjunction with the recognition of the underlying hedged item.

In the normal course of business, Sysco enters into forward purchase agreements for the procurement of fuel and electricity.  Certain of these agreements meet the definition of a derivative.  However, the company elected to use the normal purchase and sale exemption available under derivatives accounting literature; therefore, these agreements are not recorded at fair value.

Investments in Corporate-Owned Life Insurance

Investments in corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) policies are recorded at their cash surrender values as of each balance sheet date.  Changes in the cash surrender value during the period are recorded as a gain or loss within operating expenses.  The company does not record deferred tax balances related to cash surrender value gains or losses for the policies that Sysco has the intent to hold these policies to maturity.  Deferred tax balances are recorded for those policies that Sysco intends to redeem prior to maturity.  The total amounts related to the company’s investments in COLI policies included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets were $159.3 million and $160.5 million at June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012, respectively.

Treasury Stock

The company records treasury stock purchases at cost.  Shares removed from treasury are valued at cost using the average cost method.


Foreign Currency Translation

The assets and liabilities of all foreign subsidiaries are translated at current exchange rates.  Related translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Revenue Recognition

The company recognizes revenue from the sale of a product when it is considered to be realized or realizable and earned.  The company determines these requirements to be met at the point at which the product is delivered to the customer.  The company grants certain customers sales incentives such as rebates or discounts and treats these as a reduction of sales at the time the sale is recognized.  Sales tax collected from customers is not included in revenue but rather recorded as a liability due to the respective taxing authorities.  Purchases and sales of inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another are considered to be a single nonmonetary transaction.  As such, the company records the net effect of such transactions in the consolidated results of operations within sales.

Vendor Consideration

Sysco recognizes consideration received from vendors when the services performed in connection with the monies received are completed and when the related product has been sold by Sysco as a reduction to cost of sales.  There are several types of cash consideration received from vendors.  In many instances, the vendor consideration is in the form of a specified amount per case or per pound.  In these instances, Sysco will recognize the vendor consideration as a reduction of cost of sales when the product is sold.  In the situations in which the vendor consideration is not related directly to specific product purchases, Sysco will recognize these as a reduction of cost of sales when the earnings process is complete, the related service is performed and the amounts are realized.

Shipping and Handling Costs

Shipping and handling costs include costs associated with the selection of products and delivery to customers.  Included in operating expenses are shipping and handling costs of approximately $2,539.6 million in fiscal 2013, $2,396.2 million in fiscal 2012, and $2,222.1 million in fiscal 2011.

Insurance Program

Sysco maintains a self-insurance program covering portions of workers’ compensation, general and vehicle liability and property insurance costs.  The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers.  The company also maintains a fully self-insured group medical program.  Liabilities associated with these risks are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, medical cost trends, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions.

Share-Based Compensation

Sysco recognizes expense for its share-based compensation based on the fair value of the awards that are granted.  The fair value of stock options is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.  Option pricing methods require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility.  The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards are based on the company’s stock price on the date of grant.  Measured compensation cost is recognized ratably over the vesting period of the related share-based compensation award.  Cash flows resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for those options (excess tax benefits) are classified as financing cash flows on the consolidated cash flows statements.

Income Taxes

Sysco recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured pursuant to tax laws using rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.  Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount more likely than not to be realized.

Sysco recognizes a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position.  The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that has greater than a 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement.  To the extent interest and penalties may be assessed by taxing authorities on any underpayment of income tax, estimated amounts required by the accounting guidance related to uncertain tax positions have been accrued and are classified as a component of income taxes in the consolidated results of operations.


The determination of the company’s provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.  The company’s provision for income taxes primarily reflects a combination of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state, as well as various foreign jurisdictions.  Jurisdictional tax law changes, increases or decreases in permanent differences between book and tax items, accruals or adjustments of accruals for tax contingencies or valuation allowances, and the company’s change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate.

Acquisitions

Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and the financial statements include the results of the acquired operations from the respective dates of acquisition.

The purchase price of the acquired entities is allocated to the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the estimated fair value at the dates of acquisition, with any excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired, including intangibles, recognized as goodwill.  The balances included in the consolidated balance sheets related to recent acquisitions are based upon preliminary information and are subject to change when final asset and liability valuations are obtained.  Subsequent changes to the preliminary balances are reflected retrospectively, if material.  Material changes to the preliminary allocations are not anticipated by management.

Reclassifications

Prior year amounts within the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated cash flows have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation as it relates to the presentation of certain tax-related balances within these statements.  The impact of these reclassifications was immaterial to all periods presented.

2. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING

Testing

Goodwill for Impairment

In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2011-08, “Testing Goodwill for Impairment.”  This update amends Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350, “Intangibles–Goodwill and Other” to allow entities an option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test.  Under that option, an entity no longer would be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on that qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount.  In addition, the update provided a revised list of factors that should be considered when evaluating whether a potential goodwill impairment may have occurred at an interim period.  The amendments in this update were effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011.  Early adoption was permitted.  The adoption of this update in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 did not result in a material change to the company’s interim consideration of potential goodwill impairment

nor to

its annual goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.

3. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment

In July 2012, the FASB issued ASU 2012-02, “

Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment

.”

This update amends ASC 350, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” to allow entities an option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test.  Under that option, an entity no longer would be required to calculate the fair value of the intangible asset unless the entity determines, based on that qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount.  The amendments in this update are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012, which will be fiscal 2014 for Sysco.  Early adoption is permitted.  Sysco is currently evaluating the impact this update may have on its indefinite-lived intangibles impairment testing.

Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities

In January 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-01, “Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities.”  This update amends ASC 210, “Balance Sheet,” specifically the disclosure requirements created by ASU 2011-11, “Disclosures About Offsetting Assets and Liabilities,” issued by the FASB in December 2011.  This update clarifies the scope of these disclosure requirements to be applicable only to derivatives and securities borrowing and lending transactions that are offset in accordance with GAAP or are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement.  The disclosure requirements continue to be effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after January 1, 2013, which will be fiscal 2014 for Sysco.  Based on the scope clarification of this update, Sysco does not believe it has any financial instruments requiring these disclosures but will continue to evaluate this assessment.


Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-02, “Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.”  This update amends ASC 220, “Comprehensive Income,” to require an entity to report the effect of significant reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the respective line items in net earnings if the amount is being reclassified in its entirety to net earnings.  For other amounts that are not being reclassified in their entirety to net earnings, an entity is required to cross-reference other disclosures that provide additional detail about those amounts.  The amendments in this update are effective prospectively for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2012, which is fiscal 2014 for Sysco.  Sysco is currently evaluating the impact this update will have on its disclosures.

Inclusion of the Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate(or Overnight Index Swap Rate) as a Benchmark Interest Rate for Hedge Accounting Purposes

In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-10, “Inclusion of the Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate(or Overnight Index Swap Rate) as a Benchmark Interest Rate for Hedge Accounting Purposes.”  This update amends ASC 815, “Derivatives and Hedging,” to permit the Fed Funds Effective Swap rate to be used as a benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes in addition to U.S. Treasury rates and the London Interbank Offered Rate swap rate.  The update also removes the restriction on using different benchmark rates for similar hedges.  The amendments in this update are effective prospectively for new or redesignated hedging relationships entered into on or after July 17, 2013.  Sysco will consider all available benchmark interest rates for any new hedging relationships.

Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists

In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-11, “Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists.”  This update amends ASC 740, “Income Taxes,” to require that in

certain

cases, an unrecognized tax benefit, or portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, should be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward

when such items exist in the same taxing jurisdiction

.  The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013, which is fiscal


for Sysco.  Early adoption is permitted.  The amendments should be applied prospectively to all unrecognized tax benefits that exist at the effective date, and retrospective application is permitted.  Sysco is currently evaluating the impact this update will have on its financial statements.

4. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (i.e. an exit price).  The accounting guidance includes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value.  The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:

·

Level 1 – Unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets;

·

Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability; and

·

Level 3 – Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability, which include management’s own assumption about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk.

Sysco’s policy is to invest in only high-quality investments.  Cash equivalents primarily include time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, high-quality money market funds and all highly liquid instruments with original maturities of three months or less.  Restricted cash consists of investments in high-quality money market funds.

The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets measured at fair value.

·

Time deposits and commercial paper included in cash equivalents are valued at amortized cost, which approximates fair value.  These are included within cash equivalents as a Level 2 measurement in the tables below.

·

Money market funds are valued at the closing price reported by the fund sponsor from an actively traded exchange.  These are included within cash equivalents and restricted cash as Level 1 measurements in the tables below.

·

The interest rate swap agreements, discussed further in Note 8, “Derivative Financial Instruments,” are valued using a swap valuation model that utilizes an income approach using observable market inputs including interest rates, LIBOR swap rates and credit default swap rates.  These are included within prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets as Level 2 measurements in the tables below.


The following tables present the company’s assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012:

The carrying values of accounts receivable and accounts payable approximated their respective fair values due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.

The fair value of Sysco’s total debt is estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issue or on the current rates offered to the company for debt of the same remaining maturities and is considered a Level 2 measurement.  The fair value of total debt approximated $3,207.6

million and $3,539.3

million as of June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012, respectively.  The carrying value of total debt was $2,888.9 million and $3,018.3 million as of June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012, respectively.

5.  ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

A summary of the activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts appears below:


6. PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

A summary of plant and equipment, including the related accumulated depreciation, appears below:

The capitalized direct costs for the internal use software portion of the company’s Business Transformation Project are included within “computer hardware and software” in the table above in the amount of $

417.7

million and $

469.4

million

, net of accumulated amortization,

as of June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012, respectively.  The majority of this internal use software related to the Business Transformation Project was placed into service and began amortization  in August of fiscal 2013.

Depreciation expense, including capital leases, for the past three years was $

473.5

million

in 2013, $

384.9

million

in 2012 and $

374.0

million

in 2011.

7. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill and the amount allocated by reportable segment for the years presented are as follows:

Amortized intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2013 were $124.1 million with a weighted-average amortization period of eight years.  By intangible asset category, the amortized intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2013 were customer relationships of $85.7

million

with a weighted-average

a

mortization period of nine years, non-compete agreements of $21.0 million with a weighted-average amortization period of five years, amortized trademarks of $7.8 million with a weighted-average amortization period of eight years and other intangibles of $9.6 million with a weighted-average amortization period of five years.

The following table presents details of the company’s amortized  intangible assets:


Intangible assets that have been fully amortized have been removed in the schedule above in the period full amortization is reached.

The following table presents details of the company’s indefinite-lived  intangible assets:

Amortization expense for the past three years was $32.1

million

in 2013, $24.9

million

in 2012 and $21.9

million

in 2011.  The estimated future amortization expense for the next five fiscal years on intangible assets outstanding as of June 29, 2013 is shown below:

8. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Sysco manages its debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps from time to time to achieve this position.  The company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

In May 2012, the company entered into a

treasury lock agreement with a notional amount of $200.0 million.  The company designated this derivative as a cash flow hedge of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on a portion of the then forecasted June 2012 debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate.  In June 2012, in conjunction with the issuance of the $450.0 million senior notes maturing in fiscal 2022, the company settled the treasury lock, locking in the effective yields on the related debt.  Upon settlement, the company received cash of $0.7 million, which represented the fair value of the swap agreement at the time of settlement.  This amount is being amortized as an offset to interest expense over the 10-year term of the debt, and the unamortized balance is reflected as a gain, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive loss.

In fiscal 2010, the company entered into two interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $250.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2013 and $200.0

million

of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 to floating rate debt.  These transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost and increasing floating interest rate exposure.  These transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates.  The swap agreement related to the fiscal 2013 debt was settled upon maturity of the senior notes in February 2013, leaving one remaining outstanding swap agreement as of June 29, 2013.

The location and the fair value of derivative instruments in the consolidated balance sheet as of each fiscal year-end are as follows:


The location and effect of derivative instruments and related hedged items on consolidated comprehensive income for each fiscal year presented on a pre-tax basis are as follows:

Hedge ineffectiveness represents the difference between the changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments and the changes in fair

value

of the fixed rate debt attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate.  Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded directly in earnings within interest expense and was immaterial for fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011.  The interest rate swaps do not contain credit-risk-related contingent features.

9. SELF-INSURED LIABILITIES

Sysco maintains a self-insurance program covering portions of workers’ compensation, general and vehicle liability and property insurance costs

.

The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers

.

The company also maintains a fully self-insured group medical program.  A summary of the activity in self-insured liabilities appears below:


10. DEBT AND OTHER FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS

Sysco’s debt consists of the following:

The principal payments required to be made during the next five fiscal years on debt outstanding as of June 29, 2013 are shown below:

Short-term Borrowings

As of June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012, Sysco had uncommitted bank lines of credit, which provided for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $95.0

million

.  There were no borrowings outstanding under these lines of credit as of June 29, 2013 or June 30, 2012, respectively.

In September 2012, the company’s Irish subsidiary, Pallas Foods, entered into a €75.0 million (Euro) multicurrency revolving credit facility, which will be utilized for capital needs for the company’s European subsidiaries.  This facility provides for unsecured borrowings and expires September 25, 2013, but is subject to extension.  Outstanding borrowings under this facility were €32.0 million (Euro) as of June 29, 2013, located within Notes payable on the consolidated balance sheet.

As of June 30, 2012, the company’s Irish subsidiary, Pallas Foods Limited, had a €10.0

million

(Euro) committed facility for unsecured borrowings for working capital.  There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility as of June 30, 2012.  During fiscal 2013, this facility was replaced with the facility described above.

On June 30, 2011, a Canadian subsidiary of Sysco entered into a short-term demand loan facility for the purpose of facilitating a distribution from the Canadian subsidiary to Sysco, and Sysco concurrently entered into an agreement with the bank to guarantee the loan.  As of July 2, 2011, the amount outstanding under the facility was $182.0 million.  The interest rate under the facility was 2.0% and payable on the due date.  The loan was repaid in full on July 4, 2011.


Commercial Paper and Revolving Credit Facility

Sysco has a Board-approved commercial paper program allowing the company to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300.0

million

.

In December 2011, Sysco terminated its previously existing revolving credit facility that supported the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs.  At the same time, Sysco and one of its subsidiaries, Sysco International, ULC, entered into a new $1,000.0 million credit facility supporting the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs.  This facility provides for borrowings in both U.S. and Canadian dollars.  Borrowings by Sysco International, ULC under the credit agreement are guaranteed by Sysco, and borrowings by Sysco and Sysco International, ULC under the credit agreement are guaranteed by all wholly-owned subsidiaries of Sysco that are guarantors of the company’s senior notes and debentures.  The original facility in the amount of $1,000.0 million expires on December 29, 2016.  In December 2012, a portion of the facility was extended for an additional year.  This extended facility, which expires on December 29, 2017, is for $925.0 million of the original $1,000.0 million facility, but is subject to further extension.  As of June 29, 2013, commercial paper issuances outstanding were $95.5 million and were classified as long-term debt, as the company’s commercial paper programs are supported by the long-term revolving credit facility described above.  There were no commercial paper issuances outstanding as of June 30, 2012.

During fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011, aggregate outstanding commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings ranged from approximately zero to $330.0

million

, zero to $563.1

million

, and zero to $330.3

million

, respectively.

Fixed Rate Debt

In February 2012, Sysco filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission an automatically effective well-known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and guarantees of debt securities that may be issued from time to time.

In June 2012, Sysco repaid the 6.1% senior notes totaling $200.0 million at maturity utilizing a combination of cash flow from operations and commercial paper issuances.

In June 2012, Sysco issued 0.55% senior notes totaling $300.0

million

due June 12, 2015 (the 2015 notes) and 2.6% senior notes totaling $450.0

million

due June 12, 2022 (the 2022 notes) under its February 2012 shelf registration.  The 2015 and 2022 notes, which were priced at 99.319% and 98.722% of par, respectively, are unsecured, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and include a redemption provision which allows Sysco to retire the notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the note holders are not penalized by early redemption.  Proceeds from the notes will be utilized over a period of time for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions, refinancing of debt, working capital, share repurchases and capital expenditures.

In February 2013, Sysco repaid the 4.2% senior notes totaling $250.0 million at maturity utilizing a combination of cash flow from operations and cash on hand.

The  4.6% senior notes due March 15, 2014, the 5.25% senior notes due February 12, 2018, the 5.375% senior notes due March 17, 2019, the 6.5% debentures due August 1, 2028, the 5.375% senior notes due September 21, 2035 and the 6.625% senior notes due March 17, 2039 are unsecured, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and include a redemption provision that allows Sysco to retire the debentures and notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the debenture and note holders are not penalized by the early redemption.

The 7.16% debentures due April 15, 2027 are unsecured, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and are no longer redeemable prior to maturity.

T

otal Debt

Total debt as of June 29, 2013 was $2,888.9

million

of which approximately 88% was at fixed rates with a weighted average of  4.7% and an average life of 13 years, and the remainder was at floating rates with a weighted average of 1.4% and an average life of one year.  Certain loan agreements contain typical debt covenants to protect note holders, including provisions to maintain the company’s long-term debt to total capital ratio below a specified level.  Sysco is currently in compliance with all debt covenants.

Other

As of June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012, letters of credit outstanding were $42.2

million

and $29.8

million

, respectively.


11. LEASES

Sysco has obligations under capital and operating leases for certain distribution facilities, vehicles and computers

.

Total rental expense under operating leases was

$84.4

m

i

llion

, $

83.0

million

, and $

79.3

million

in fiscal

2013, 2012

and 2011

, respectively. Contingent rentals, subleases and assets and obligations under capital leases are not significant.

Aggregate minimum lease payments by fiscal year under existing non-capitalized long-term leases are as follows:

12.  OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES

The following table presents details of the company’s other long-term liabilities:



.

COMPANY-SPONSORED

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

Sysco has

company-sponsored

defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans for its employees

.

Also, the company provides certain health care benefits to eligible retirees and their dependents.

Defined Contribution Plan

In December 2012, the company amended its defined contribution 401(k) Plan to be a Safe Harbor plan, a plan that treats all employees’ benefits equally within the plan, under Sections 401(k) and 401(m) of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to non-union employees and those union employees whose unions adopted the Safe Harbor Plan provisions.  Effective January 1, 2013, the new Safe Harbor plan provides that the Company will make a non-elective contribution each pay period equal to 3% of a participant’s compensation.  Additionally, the Company will make matching contributions of 50% of a participant’s pre-tax contribution on the first 5% of the participant’s compensation.  Certain employees are also eligible for a transition contribution, and the Company may also make discretionary contributions.  For union employees who are members of unions that did not adopt the Safe Harbor Plan provisions, the plan provides that under certain circumstances the company may make matching contributions of up to 50% of the first 6% of a participant’s compensation.

Prior to the adoption of the Safe Harbor Plan in January 2013, t

he company’s defined contribution 401(k) plan provide

d

that under certain circumstances the company may make matching contributions of up

to


% of the first


% o

f a participant’s compensation.

Sysco’s expense related to

its defined contribution 401(k)

plan w

as $65.3

million

in

fiscal


, $

17.2

million

in fiscal


, and $

19.8

million

in fiscal


.

Defined Benefit Plans

Sysco maintains a qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan) that pays benefits to employees at retirement, using formulas based on a participant’s years of service and compensation.

At the end of fiscal 2012,

Sysco

approved a plan

to freez

e

future

benefit

accruals under

the Retirement Plan

as of December 31, 20


for all

United States

-based salaried and non-union hourly employees

.  Effective January 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for

additional contributions

under the company’s defined contribution  401(k) plan.


In addition to receiving benefits upon retirement under the company’s Retirement Plan,

key management personnel who are

participants in the Management Incentive Plan will receive benefits under a Supplementa

l Executive Retirement Plan (SER

P)

.

This plan is a nonqualified, unfunded supplementary retirement plan.

In November 2012, Sysco approved a plan to restructure its executive nonqualified retirement program including the SERP.  Future benefit accruals have been frozen under this plan as of June 29, 2013 for all participants.

Also, the company provides certain health care benefits to eligible retirees and their dependents.

Funded Status

Accumulated pension assets measured against the obligation for pension benefits represents the funded status of a given plan.  The funded status of Sysco’s company-sponsored defined benefit plans is presented in the table below.  The caption “Pension Benefits” in the tables below includes both the Retirement Plan and the SERP.

The measurements for the Retirement Plan at June 30, 2012 included the impact of the freeze discussed above.  This resulted in the recognition of a curtailment gain as a component of actuarial loss arising in fiscal 2012 in other comprehensive loss.

As a result of the SERP freeze discussed above in November 2012, the liabilities of this plan were remeasured using a discount rate of 3.96%.  A curtailment gain of $73.0 million was recognized as a component of actuarial losses (net of tax) within other comprehensive income with an offsetting reduction to benefits obligations to accumulated benefits.  Further, an $8.3 million loss was recognized in the income statement arising from the write-off of prior service costs.  In addition to the plan freeze, participants will be fully vested in their frozen benefits on their date of freeze.  This resulted in an increase in the benefit obligation of $48.6 million which was reflected as unrecognized prior service cost in other comprehensive income.  This amount will amortize into pension expense over the next seven years.  The SERP benefit obligation resulting after these changes on the date of the approved plan was $486.6 million.

In order to meet a portion of its obligations under the SERP, Sysco maintains life insurance policies on the lives of the participants with carrying values of

$

95.0

million

as of

June 29, 2013

and $

97.6

million

as of

June 30, 2012.

In the second quarter of fiscal 2012, approximately $

75.0

million of these policies were redeemed and corporate-owned real estate assets were substituted for these policies.  These policies are not included as plan assets or in the funded status amounts in the tables above and below; rather, the assets are held in a rabbi trust and are therefore available to satisfy the claims of the company’s creditors in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency of the company

.

Sysco is the sole owner and beneficiary of

such policies.


The amounts recognized on Sysco’s consolidated balance sheets related to its company-sponsored defined benefit plans are as follows:

Accumulated other comprehensive loss (income) as of

June 29, 2013

consists of the following amounts that had not, as of that date, been recognized in net benefit cost:

Accumulated other comprehensive loss (income) as of

June 30, 2012

consists of the following amounts that had not, as of that date, been recognized in net benefit cost:

The accumulated benefit obligation, which does not consider any salary increases

for the remaining active union employees in the Retirement Plan

, for the company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans wa

s $

3,079.1

milli

on

and $

3,078.5

million

as of

June 29, 2013

and

June 30, 2012

, respectively.

Information for plans with accumulated benefit obligation/aggregate benefit obligation in excess of fair value of plan assets is as follows:

(1)

Information under Pension Benefits as of

June 29, 2013

and

June 30, 2012

includes both the Retirement Plan and the SERP.


Components of Net Benefit Costs and Other Comprehensive Income

The components of net company-sponsored pension costs for each fiscal year are as follows:

The components of other postretirement benefit costs for each fiscal year are as follows:

Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehens

ive

income (loss)

rela

ted to company-sponsored pension plans for each fiscal year are as follows:

Other changes in benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensi

ve

(loss) income

relat

ed to other postretirement plans for each fiscal year are as follows:


Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss (income) as of

June 29, 2013

that are expected to be recognized as components of net company-sponsored benefit cost during fiscal


are:

Employer Contributions

The company made cash contributions to its company-sponsored pension plans

of $

93.6

million

and $

162.4

million

in fiscal years


and


, respectively

.

The $

70.0

million

contribution to the Retirement Plan in fiscal 2013 was voluntary, as there were no required contributions to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements in fiscal 2013.  The $

140.0

million contribution to the Retirement Plan in fiscal 2012 exceeded the minimum required contribution for the calendar 2011 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements.

There are no required contributions to the Retirement Plan to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements in fiscal 2014.  The com

pany’s contributions to the SERP and other post-retirement plans are made in the amounts needed to fund current year benefit payments

.

The estimated fiscal


contributions to fund benefit payments for the SERP and other postretirement plans are $

25.8

mi

llion

and

$

0.4

mil

lion

, respectively.

Estimated Future Benefit Payments

Estimated future benefit payments for vested participants, based on actuarial assumptions, are as follows:

Assumptions

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as of year-end were:

As benefit accruals under the SERP were frozen as of June 29, 2013 due to the plan freeze discussed above, future pay is not projected in the determination of the benefit obligation as of that date.

For determining the benefit obligations as

of

June 30, 2012, the SERP calculations utilized an age-graded salary growth assumption.


Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net company-sponsored pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs for each fiscal year were:

(1)

The SERP was remeasured in November 2012 as a result of the plan freeze discussed above.  The rate in the table above reflects the discount rate as of this remeasurement

.

For determining the net pension costs related to the SERP for

fiscal 2013,

2012  and 2011, the SERP calculations utilized an age-graded salary growth assumption.

A healthcare cost trend rate is not used in the calculations of postretirement benefit obligations because Sysco subsidizes the cost of postretirement medical coverage by a fixed dollar amount, with the retiree responsible for the cost of coverage in excess of the subsidy, including all future cost increases.

For guidance in determining the discount rate, Sysco calculates the implied rate of return on a hypothetical portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximates the estimated payouts of the company-sponsored pension plans

.

The discount rate assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate.  The discount rate to be used for the calculation of fiscal


net company-sponsored benefit costs for the Retirement Plan i

s

5.32

%

.  The discount rate to be used for the calculation of fiscal


net company-sponsored benefit costs for the SERP i

s

4.94

%.

The discount rate to be used for the calculation of fiscal


net company-sponsored benefit costs for the Other Postretirement Plans is

5.32

%.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption is net return on assets assumption, representing gross return on assets less plan expenses.  The expected return is derived from a mathematical asset model that incorporates assumptions as to the various asset class returns, reflecting a combination of rigorous historical performance analysis and the forward-looking views of the financial markets regarding the yield on bonds, the historical returns of the major stock markets and returns on alternative investments. The rate of return assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate.  The expected long-term rate of return to be used in the calculation of fiscal


net company-sponsored benefit costs for the Retirement Plan i

s

7.75

%.

Plan Assets

Investment Strategy

The company’s overall strategic investment objectives for the Retirement Plan are to preserve capital for future benefit payments and to balance risk and return commensurate with ongoing changes in the valuation of plan liabilities.  In order to accomplish these objectives, the company oversees the Retirement Plan’s investment objectives and policy design, decides proper plan asset class strategies and structures, monitors the performance of plan investment managers and investment funds and determines the proper investment allocation of pension plan contributions and withdrawals

.

The company has created an investment structure for the Retirement Plan that takes into account the nature of the Retirement Plan’s liabilities.  This structure ensures the Retirement Plan’s investment are diversified within each asset class, in addition to being diversified across asset classes with the intent to build asset class portfolios that are structured without strategic bias for or against any subcategories within each asset class.  The company has also created a set of investment guidelines for the Retirement Plan’s investment managers to specify prohibited transactions, including borrowing of money except for real estate portfolios or private equity portfolios where leverage is a key component of the investment strategy and permitted in the investments’ governing documents, the purchase of securities on margin unless fully collateralized by cash or cash equivalents or short sales, pledging, mortgaging or hypothecating of any securities except for loans of securities that are fully collateralized, market timing transactions and the direct purchase of the securities of Sysco or the investment manager

.

The purchase or sale of derivatives for speculation or leverage is also prohibited; however, investment managers are allowed to use derivative securities so long as they do not increase the risk profile or leverage of the manager’s portfolio.


The company’s target and actual investment allocation as of

June 29, 2013

is as follows:

Sysco’s investment strategy is implemented through a combination of balanced and specialist investment managers, passive investment funds and actively-managed investment funds

.

U.S. equity consists of both large-cap and small-to-mid-cap securities.  Core fixed income investments include intermediate range U.S. government and agency securities, corporate bonds from diversified industries, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, other debt securities and derivative securities

.

Long duration fixed income investments include U.S. government and agency securities, corporate bonds from diversified industries, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, other debt securities and derivative securities

.

High yield fixed income consists of below investment grade corporate debt securities and may include derivative securities.  Alternative investments may include private equity, private real estate, timberland, and commodities investments

.

Investment funds are selected based on each fund’s stated investment strategy to align with Sysco’s overall target mix of investments.  Actual asset allocation is regularly reviewed and periodically rebalanced to the target allocation when considered appropriate.

As of June 29, 2013, actual asset allocation varied from the stated target in certain categories, as alternative investment funding, primarily in private equity funds require contributions over a multi-year period.  Until such capital is required, the company has chosen to invest these amounts in U.S. and international equities.

As discussed

above, the Retirement Plan’s investments in equity, fixed income and alternative investments provide a range of returns and also expose the plan to investment risk.  However, the investment policies put in place by the company require diversification of plan assets across issuers, industries and countries.  As such, the Retirement Plan does not have significant concentrations of risk in plan assets.

Fair Value of Plan Assets

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (i.e. an exit price).

See Note


, “Fair Value Measurements,” for a description of the fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value.

The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities measured at fair value.

Cash and cash equivalents: Valued at amortized cost, which approximates fair value.  Cash and cash equivalents is included as a Level 2 measurement in the table below.

Equity securities: Valued at the closing price reported on the exchange market

.

If a stock is not listed on a public exchange, such as an American Depository Receipt or some preferred stocks, the stock is valued using an evaluated bid price based on a compilation of observable market information

.

Inputs used include yields, the underlying security “best price”, adjustments for corporate actions and exchange prices of underlying and common stock of the same issuer.  Equity securities valued at the closing price reported on the

exchange market are classified as a Level 1 measurement in the table below; all other equity securities are included as a Level 2 measurement.

Fixed income securities: Valued using evaluated bid prices based on a compilation of observable market information or a broker quote in a non-active market.  Inputs used vary by type of security, but include spreads, yields, rate benchmarks, rate of prepayment, cash flows

, rating changes and collateral performance and type.  All fixed income securities are included as a Level 2 measurement in the table below.

Investment funds:

Funds holding debt and equity securities are v

alued at the net asset value (NAV) provided by the manager of each fund.  The NAV is calculated as the underlying net assets owned by the fund, divided by the number of shares outstanding

.

The NAV is based on the fair value of the underlying securities within the fund.  The real estate fund

s

are

valued

based on the proportionate interest

held by the Retirement Plan, which is based on the valuations of the underlying real estate investments held by

each

fund.  Each real estate investment is valued on the basis of a discounted cash flow approach

.

Inputs used include future rental receipts, expenses and residual values from a market participant view of the highest and best use of the real estate as rental property.

The private equity funds are valued based on the proportionate interest held by the Retirement Plan, which is based on the valuations of the underlying private equity investments held by each fund.  Indirectly-held investments are valued utilizing the latest financial reports supplied by the fund’s portfolio investments.  Directly-held investments are valued initially based on transaction price and are adjusted utilizing available market data and investment-specific factors, such as estimates of liquidation value, prices of recent


transactions in the same or similar issuer, current operating performance and future expectations of the particular investment, changes in market outlook and the financing environment.  I

nvestment funds

holding debt and equity securities

are included as a Level 2 measurement in the table below.  The real estate fund

s

and private equity funds are included as Level 3 measurements.

Derivatives:  Valuation method varies by type of derivative security.

·

Credit default and interest rate swaps:  Valued using evaluated bid prices based on a compilation of observable market information.  Inputs used for credit default swaps include spread curves and trade data about the credit quality of the counterparty.  Inputs used for interest rate swaps include benchmark yields, swap curves, cash flow analysis, and interdealer broker rates.  Credit default and interest rate swaps are included as a Level 2 measurement in the table below.

·

Foreign currency contracts: Valued using a standardized interpolation model that utilizes the quoted prices for standard-length forward foreign currency contracts and adjusts to the remaining term outstanding on the contract being valued.  Foreign currency contracts are included as a Level 2 measurement in the table below.

·

Futures and option contracts: Valued at the closing price reported on the exchange market for exchange-traded futures and options.  Over-the-counter options are valued using pricing models that are based on observable market information.  Exchange-traded futures and options are included as a Level 1 measurement in the table below; over-the-counter options are included as a Level 2 measurement.

The following table presents the fair value of the Retirement Plan’s assets by major asset category as of

June 29, 2013

:


Include direct investments and investment funds.


Include investments in investment funds only.


Include credit default swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign currency contracts, futures and options.  The fair value of asset positions totaled $0.4

million

; the fair value of liability positions totaled $1.3

million

.


Include primarily plan receivables and payables, net.


The following table presents the fair value of the Retirement Plan’s assets by major asset category as of

June 30, 2012

:


Include direct investments and investment funds.


Include investments in investment funds only.


Include credit default swaps, interest rate swaps

and

futures.  The fair value of asset positions totaled $

0.3

million

; the fair value of liability positions totaled $

0.3

million

.


Include credit default swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign currency contracts, futures and options.  The fair value of asset positions totaled $

0.5

million

; the fair value of liability positions totaled $

0.6

million

.


Include primarily plan receivables and payables, net.


The following table sets forth a summary of changes in the fair value of the Retirement Plan’s Level 3 assets

for each fiscal year:



.

MULTIEMPLOYER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

Defined Benefit Pension Plans

Sysco contributes to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans in the United States and Canada based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees.  Sysco does not directly manage these multiemployer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees, half of whom are appointed by the unions and the other half by other employers contributing to the plan.  Approximately 10% of Sysco’s current employees are participants in such multiemployer plans as of June 29, 2013.

The risks of participating in these multiemployer plans are different from single-employer plans in the following aspects:

·

Assets contributed to the multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers.

·

If a participating employer stops contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers.

·

If Sysco chooses to stop participating in some of its multiemployer plans, Sysco may be required to pay those plans an amount based on the underfunded status of the plan, referred to as a withdrawal liability.

Based upon the information available from plan administrators, management believes that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded.  In addition, pension-related legislation in the United States requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding.  As a result, Sysco expects its contributions to these plans to increase in the future.  In addition, if a United States multiemployer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the

Internal Revenue Service (

IRS

)

may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund.

Withdrawal Activity

Sysco has voluntarily withdrawn from various multiemployer pension plans.  Total withdrawal liability provisions recorded were

$

41.9

mi

llion in fiscal 2013, $

21.9

million

in fiscal 2012 and $

41.5

million

in fiscal 2011.

As of June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012, Sysco had approximately

$

40.7

mil

lion and $

30.7

million, respectively, in liabilities recorded related to certain multiemployer defined benefit plans for which Sysco’s voluntary withdrawal had already occurred.  Recorded withdrawal liabilities are estimated at the time of withdrawal based on the most recently available valuation and participant data for the respective plans; amounts are subsequently adjusted to the period of payment to reflect any changes to these estimates.  If any of these plans were to undergo a mass withdrawal, as defined by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, within the two plan years following the plan year in which we completely withdraw from that plan, Sysco could have additional liability.  The company does not currently believe any mass withdrawals are probable to occur  in the applicable

two-

plan year time frame relating to the plans from which Sysco has voluntarily withdrawn.


Potential Withdrawal Liability

Under current law regarding multiemployer defined benefit plans, a plan’s termination, Sysco’s voluntary withdrawal, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multiemployer defined benefit plan would require Sysco to make payments to the plan for Sysco’s proportionate share of the multiemployer plan’s unfunded vested liabilities.  Generally, Sysco does not have the greatest share of liability among the participants in any of the plans in which it participates.  Sysco believes that one of the above-mentioned events is reasonably possible for certain plans in which it participates and estimates its share of withdrawal liability for these plans could have been as much as

$

80.0

million as

of June 29, 2013.  This estimate excludes plans for which Sysco has recorded withdrawal liabilities or where the likelihood of the above-mentioned events is deemed remote.  This estimate is based on the information available from plan administrators, which had a valuation date of

December 31, 2011.  As the valuation date for all of these plans was December 31, 2011, the company’s estimate reflects the condition of the financial markets as of that date.  D

ue to the lack of current information, management believes Sysco’s current share of the withdrawal liability could materially differ from this estimate.

Plan Contributions

Sysco’s contributions to multiemployer defined benefit pension plans were as follows for each fiscal year:

Payments for voluntary withdrawals included in contributions wer

e $

31.8

mil

lion,

$33.6 million

and

zero

in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   Contributions for individually significant plans and all other plans have been presented in the table above for all years based on the current year designation of individually significant plans.  Prior periods amounts have been reclassified for consistency with the current year presentation.

Individually Significant Plans

The information in the following tables relates to multiemployer defined benefit pension plans which Sysco has determined to be individually significant to the company.  To determine individually significant plans, the company evaluated several factors, including Sysco’s significance to the plan in terms of employees and contributions, the funded status of the plan and the size of company’s potential withdrawal liability if it were to voluntarily withdraw from the plan.

The following table provides information about the funded status of individually significant plans:

·

The “EIN-PN” column provides the Employer Identification Number (EIN) and the three-digit plan number (PN).

·

The “Pension Protection Act Zone Status”  columns provide the two most recent Pension Protection Act zone statuses available from each plan.  The zone status is based on information that the company received fro

m the plan’s administrators and is certified by each plan’s actuary.  Among other factors, plans in the red zone are generally less than 65% funded, plans in the orange zone are both less than 80% funded and have an accumulated funding deficiency or are expected to have a deficiency in any of the next six plan years, plans in the yellow zone are less than 80% funded and plans in the green zone are at least 80% funded

.

·

The “FIP/RP Status” column indicates whether a financial improvement plan (FIP) for yellow/orange zone plans or a rehabilitation plan (RP) for red zone plans is pending or implemented in the current year or was put in place in a prior year.  A status of “Pending” indicates a FIP/RP has been approved but actual period covered by the FIP/RP has not begun.  A status of “Implemented” means the period covered by the FIP/RP began in the current year or is ongoing.

·

The “Surcharge Imposed” column indicates whether a surcharge was paid during the most recent annual period presented for the company’s contributions to each plan in the red zone.  If the company’s current collective bargaining agreement (CBA) with a plan satisfies the requirements of a pending but not yet implemented RP, then the payment of surcharges is not required and “No” will be reflected in this column.  If the company’s current collective bargaining agreement (CBA) with a plan does not yet satisfy the requirements of a pending but not yet implemented RP, then the payment of surcharges is required and “Yes” will be reflected in this column.


(1)

Sysco is party t

o


C

BAs that require contributions to the Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Trust.  Each agreement covers anywhere from

less than 1

% to


% of th

e total contributions Sysco is required to pay the fund.

(2)

Sysco is part

y to

three

CBAs that require contributions to the Teamsters Pension Trust Fund of Philadelphia and Vicinity.

One

agreement expires July 19, 2013 and covers approximately


% of the total contributions Sysco is required to pay the fund.  The remaining

two

agreements expire July 31, 2016 and cover the remaining


% of t

he total contributions Sysco is required to pay the fund.

The following table provides information about the company’s contributions to individually significant plans:

·

The  “Sysco Contributions” columns  provide contribution amounts based on Sysco’s fiscal years, which may not coincide with the plans’ fiscal years.

·

The “Sysco 5% of Total Plan Contributions” columns indicate whether Sysco was listed in the plan’s most recently filed Form 5500s as providing more than five percent of the total contributions to the plan, and the plan year-end is noted.  As of the date these financial statements were filed with the SEC, Form 5500s were not available for plan years ending December 31, 2012.


For all of the plans noted in the table above, minimum contributions outside of the agreed upon contractual rate are not required.

Other Postretirement Benefit Plans

In addition to the contributions to the defined benefit pension plans described above, Sysco also contributes to several multiemployer plans that provide other postretirement benefits based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees.

These plans may provide medical, pharmacy, dental, vision, mental health and other benefits to active employees and retirees as determined by the trustees of each plan.

Sysco contributed to these plans $

30.6

m

illion in fiscal 2013,

$

25.5

million in fiscal 2012 and

$

23.9

million in fiscal 2011.  There have been no significant changes that affect the comparability o

f fiscal 2013, fiscal

2012 and fiscal 2011 contributions.



.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for each respective year

.

Diluted earnings per share has been computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during those respective years adjusted for the dilutive effect of

share-based awards

outstanding using the treasury stock method.

The two-class method is also utilized for the computation of earnings per share.  The two-class method requires a portion of net income to be allocated to participating securities, which are unvested awards of share-based compensation with non-forfeitable rights to receive dividends or dividend equivalents, if declared.  Net earnings allocated to these participating securities are excluded from net earnings allocated to common shares and were insignificant in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011.

A reconciliation of the numerators and the denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations for the periods presented follows:

The number of options that were not included in the diluted earnings per share calculation because the effect would have been anti-dilutive was

approximately

18,200,000

,


,100,000

and

50,700,000

for fiscal


,


and


, respectively.

Dividends declared we

re $654.9

million

, $

628.0

million

and $

604.5

million

in fiscal


,


and


, respectively

.

Included in dividends declared for each year were dividends declared but not yet paid at year-end of approximat

e

ly $

165.8

milli

on

, $

159.4

million

and $

155.0

million

in fiscal


,


and


, respectively

.




. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Comprehensive income is net earnings plus certain other items that are recorded directly to shareholders’ equity, such as foreign currency translation adjustments, amounts related to cash flow hedging arrangements and certain amounts related to pension and other postretirement plans.  Comprehensive income was

$

1,208.4

million

, $718.7

million

and $1,372.3

million

in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

A summary of the components of other comprehensive income (loss) and the related tax effects for each of the years presented  is as follows:


The following table provides a summary of the changes in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the years presented:



. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION

Sysco provides compensation benefits to employees and non-employee directors under several share-based payment arrangements including various employee stock option plans, the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan, the Management Incentive Plan and various non-employee director plans.

Stock Incentive Plans

In November 2009, Sysco’s 2007 Stock Incentive

Plan was  amended and provides for the issuance of up to 55,000,000 shares of Sysco common stock for share-based awards to officers and other employees of the company

.

Of the

55,000,000

authorized shares, the full

55,000,000

shares  may be issued as options or stock appreciation rights and up to

10,000,000

shares may be issued as restricted stock, restricted stock units or other types of stock-based awards.

To date, Sysco has issued options, restricted stock and restricted stock units under this plan

.

Vesting requirements for awards under

this plan will vary by individual grant and may include either time-based vesting or time-based vesting subject to acceleration based on performance criteria for fiscal periods of at least one year

.

The contractual life of all options granted under this plan will be no greater than seven years

.

As of

June 29, 2013

, there were

10,159,110

remaining shares authorized and available for grant in total under the amended 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, of which the full

10,159,110

shares may be issued as options or stock appreciation rights, or as a combination of up to

5,530,402

shares that may be issued as restricted stock, restricted stock units or other types of stock-based awards

with the remainder available for issuance as options or stock appreciation rights.

Sysco has also granted employee options under several previous employee stock option plans for which previously granted options remain outstanding as of

June 29, 2013.

No new options will be issued under any of the prior plans, as future grants to


employees will be made through the amended 2007 Stock Incentive Plan or subsequently adopted plans

.

Vesting requirements for awards under these plans vary by individual grant and include either time-based vesting or time-based vesting subject to acceleration based on performance criteria

.

The contractual life of all options granted under these plans through July 3, 2004 is


years; options granted after July 3, 2004 have a contractual life of

seven

years.

In November 2009, Sysco’s 2009 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan was adopted and provides for the issuance of up to

750,000

shares of Sysco common stock for share-based awards to non-employee directors

.

The authorized shares may be granted as restricted stock, restricted stock units, elected shares or additional shares

.

In addition, options and unvested common shares also remained outstanding as of

June 29, 2013

under previous non-employee director stock plans

.

No further grants will be made under these previous plans, as all future grants to non-employee directors will be made through the 2009 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan or subsequently adopted plans

.

Vesting requirements for awards under these plans vary by individual grant and include either time-based vesting or vesting based on performance criteria

.

The contractual life of all options granted under these plans through July 3, 2004 is


years; options granted after July 3, 2004 have a contractual life of

seven

years

.

As of

June 29, 2013

, there were

483,096

remaining shares authorized and available for grant in total under the 2009 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan.

Stock Options

Sysco’s option awards are subject to graded vesting over a service period

.

Sysco recognizes compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award.

In addition, certain of Sysco’s options provide that the options continue to vest as if the optionee continued to be an employee or director if the optionee meets certain age and years of service thresholds upon retirement

.

In these cases, Sysco will recognize compensation cost for such awards over the period from the grant date to the date the employee or director first becomes eligible to retire with the options continuing to vest after retirement.

The fair value of each option award is estimated as of the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model

.

The weighted average assumptions for the periods indicated are noted in the following table

.

Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of Sysco’s stock, implied volatilities from traded options on Sysco’s stock and other factors

.

Sysco utilizes historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination behavior within the valuation model; separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes

.

Expected dividend yield is estimated based on the historical pattern of dividends and the average stock price for the year preceding the option grant

.

The risk-free rate for the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.

The following weighted-average assumptions were used for each fiscal year presented:

The following summary presents information regarding outstanding options as of

June 29, 2013

and changes during the fiscal year then ended with regard to options under all stock incentive plans:

The total number of employee options granted was

6,212,716

,

7,015,952

and

7,190,250

in fiscal years


,


and


, respectively

.

During fiscal


,

2,351,720

options were granted to


executive officers and

3,860,996

options were granted to


approximately


other key employees

.

During fiscal


,

2,898,854

options were granted to


executive officers and

4,117,098

options were granted to approximately


other key employees

.

During fiscal


,

1,423,000

options were granted to


executive officers and

5,767,250

options were granted to approximately

1,500

other key employees.

The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted in fiscal


,


and


was $

3.20

,

$

3.69

and $

3.96

, respectively

.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during fiscal


,


and


was $

24.1

million

, $

8.3

million

and $

45.5

million

, respectively.

Restricted Stock Units

During fiscal

2013, 2012

and


,

1,722,835

,

1,528,734

and

656,000

restricted stock units, respectively, were granted to employees

, the majority of which

will vest ratably over a

three

-year period.

Some

of these restricted stock units were granted with dividend equivalents.  The fair value of each restricted stock unit award granted with a dividend equivalent is based on the company’s stock price as of the date of grant.  For restricted stock unit awards granted without dividend equivalents, the fair value was reduced by the present value of expected dividends during the vesting period.  The weighted average grant-date fair value per share of restricted stock units granted during  fiscal

2013, 2012

and


was $

29.75, $

27.35

and $

28.72

, respectively.

The total

fair

value of

restricted stock units

vested

during fiscal

2013, 2012 and


was

$

27.6

million

,

$

11.8

million

and $6.2 million

, respectively

.

Restricted Stock

In fiscal 2009,

75,822

shares of restricted stock were granted to an executive officer.  The fair value of these shares was $

23.74

per share, which was based o

n

the stock price on the grant date.  These shares

were to vest

ratably over a

three

-year period.  In fiscal 2010, this executive officer announced his retirement, and

37,911

of the shares were forfeited according to the terms of the agreement.  The remaining shares have vested according to the terms of the agreement as amended in connection with the executive officer’s retirement.

The total

fair

value of

restricted stock vested

during fiscal

2011 was $

0.4

million

.

There were no vestings of restricted stock in fiscal 2013 or 2012.

Non-Employee Director Awards

The 2009 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan, as well as previous plans, provides for the issuance of restricted awards to current non-employee directors

.

During fiscal


,


and


,

48,069

,

63,657

and

60,973

shares, respectively, of restricted awards were granted to non-employee directors

that will

vest over a

one

-year period

.  Beginning in fiscal 2011, the non-employee directors may elect to receive these awards in restricted stock shares that will vest at the end of the award’s stated vesting period or as deferred units which convert into shares of Sysco common stock upon a date selected by the non-employee director that is subsequent to the award’s stated vesting date.  The fair value of the restricted awards is based on the company’s stock price as of the date of grant

.

The weighted average grant-date fair value of the shares granted during fiscal


,


and


was

$

29.96

, $

27.65

and $

28.87

, respectively.

The total

fair

value of

restricted stock shares vested and deferred units distributed

during fiscal

2013, 2012 and 2011

was $

1.9

million

, $

2.2

million

and $

1.7

million

, respectively

.

Restricted stock shares are valued on their vesting date.  Vested deferred units are valued on their subsequent conversion and distribution date.

Under the 2009 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan, non-employee directors may elect to receive

up to


% of their annual directors’ fees in Sysco common stock on either an annual or deferred basis.  Sysco provides a matching grant of


% of

the number of shares received for the stock election subject to certain limitations.  As a result of such elections, a total of

26,702

,

31,397

and

27,979

shares with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $

30.38

, $

28.46

and $

29.26

per share were issued in fiscal


,


and


, respectively, in the form of fully vested common stock or deferred units.

The total

fair

value of

common stock issued as a result of election shares and deferred units distributed

during fiscal

2013, 2012 and 2011

was

$


.5

million

,

$

0.5

million

and $

0.4

million

, respectively

.

Common stock shares are valued on their vesting date.  Vested deferred units are valued on their subsequent conversion and distribution date.

As of June 29, 2013, there were

74,153

fully vested deferred units outstanding

which

will

convert into shares of Sysco common stock upon date

s

selected by the

respective

non-employee director

s

.


Summary of Nonvested Awards

The following summary presents information regarding outstanding nonvested awards as of

June 29, 2013

and changes during the fiscal year then ended with regard to these awards under all stock incentive plans.  Award types represented include:  restricted stock units granted to employees and restricted awards granted to non-employee directors.

Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan

Sysco has an Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan that permits employees to invest in Sysco common stock by means of periodic payroll deductions at

a

discount of


% from the closing price on the last business day of each calendar quarter

.

In November 2010, the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan was amended to reserve an additional

5,000,000

shares of Sysco common stock for issuance under the plan.  Including the additional 5,000,000 shares reserved in fiscal 2011, the total number of shares which may be sold pursuant to the plan may not exceed

79,000,000

shares, of which

3,770,467

remained

available as of

June 29, 2013

.

During fiscal


,

1,470,271

shares of Sysco common stock were purchased by the participants as compared to

1,661,758

shares purchased in fiscal


and

1,655,100

shares purchased in fiscal

2011.

The weighted average fair value of employee stock purchase rights issued pursuant to the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan was $

4.78

, $

4.33

and $

4.28

per share during fiscal


,


and


, respectively

.

The fair value of the stock purchase rights was calculated as the difference between the stock price at date of issuance and the employee purchase price.

All Share-Based Payment Arrangements

The total share-based compensation cost that has been recognized in results of operations was $

70.1

million

, $

70.3

million

and $

59.2

million

for fiscal


,


and


, respectively, and is included within operating expenses in the consolidated results of operations

.

The total income tax benefit recognized in results of operations for share-based compensation arrangements was $

29.9

million

, $

21.7

million

and $

18.2

million

for fiscal


,


and


, respectively.

As of

June 29, 2013

, there was $

69.4

million

of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements

.

That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period

of

2.41

years.

Cash received from option exercises and purchases of shares under the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan wa

s $628.7

mi

llion

, $

99.4

million

and $

332.7

million

during fiscal


,


and


, respectively

.

The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises totaled $

24.0

million

, $

3.0

million

and $

15.9

million

during fiscal


,


and


, respectively

.



.   INCOME TAXES

Income Tax Provisions

For financial reporting purposes, earnings before income taxes consists of the following:


The income tax provision for each fiscal year consists of the following:

The current and deferred components of the income tax provisions for each fiscal year are as follows:

The deferred tax provisions result from the effects of net changes during the year in deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.

Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities

Significant components of Sysco’s deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

The company had state net operating tax loss carryfor

wards as of June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012.  The net operating tax loss carryforwards outstanding as of June 29, 2013 expire in fiscal years 2014 through 2033.  There were no valuation allo

wances recorded for the state tax loss carryforwards as of

June 29, 2013

and

June 30, 2012

because management believes it is more likely than not that these benefits will be realized based on utilization forecasts.

Sysco’s deferred taxes were impacted by an

IRS

settlement related to Sysco’s affiliate, Baugh Supply Chain Cooperative,

which resulted in

payments of deferred taxes of $

212.0 million

in each of

fi

scal 201


, 2011, and 201


. Sysco reclassified amounts due within one year from deferred taxes to accrued income taxes at the beginning of each of fiscal 2012, 2011, and 2010.


Effective Tax Rates

Reconciliations of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rates for each fiscal year are as follows:

The effective tax rate

of 35.87

%

for fiscal 2013 was favorably impacted primar

ily by two items.  First, the company recorded a tax benefit of $

14.0

million related to changes in estimates for the prior year domestic tax provision.  Second, the company recorded a tax benefit of $8.8 million related to disqualifying dispositions of Sysco stock pursuant to share-based compensation arrangements.  The effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the recording of $

5.7

million in tax and interest related to various federal, foreign an

d

state uncertain tax positions.  Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statut

ory rates less than our domestic tax rate

also

had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.

The effective tax rate for fiscal


was

37.13

%.  Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statutory rates less than our domestic tax rate had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.

The effective tax rate of 36.96% for fiscal 2011 was favorably impacted primarily by two items.  First, the company recorded a tax benefit of approximately $

17.0

million for the reversal of valuation allowances previously recorded on state net operating loss carryforwards.  Second, the company adjusted the carrying values of the company’s COLI policies to their cash surrender values.  The gain of $

28.2

million recorded in fiscal 2011 was primarily non-taxable for income tax purposes, and had the impact of decreasing income tax expense for the period by $

11.1

million

.

Partially offsetting these favorable impacts was the recording of $

9.3

million in tax and interest related to various federal, foreign and state uncertain tax positions.

Uncertain Tax Positions

In the third quarter of fiscal 2013, we reclassified a receivable that would arise upon the resolution of an unrecognized tax benefit from a net position in other long-term liabilities to a gross position in other assets and other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet.  Prior year amounts within the consolidated balance sheets have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.  Prior year amounts in schedule below have also been adjusted to conform to the current year gross presentation of the unrecognized tax benefit on this tax position.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, is as follows:

As of Ju

ne


, 201

3, $11.6 million of the gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits was netted within prepaid income taxes due to expected payment in fiscal 2014.  As of June 29, 2013, the gross amount of liability for accrued interest and penalties related to


unrecognized tax benefits was $36.8 million, of which $5.8 million was netted within prepaid income taxes due to expected payment in fiscal 2014.  The expense recorded for interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in fiscal 2013 was $

5.0

milli

on.

As of

June 30, 2012

, $

15.9

million of the gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits was netted within prepaid income taxes relating to a payment that occurred during fiscal 2011; however, the liability is considered outstanding until the matters have been settled with the respective jurisdiction.  As of

June 30, 2012

, the gross amount of liability for accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits was

$43.2 millio

n, of which $

8.7

million was netted within prepaid income taxes relating to a payment that occurred during fiscal 2011; however, the liability is considered outstanding until the matters have been settled with the respective jurisdiction.  The expense recorded for interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in fiscal 201


was $

4.7

million.

If Sysco were to recognize all unrecognized tax benefits recorded as of

June 29, 2013

, approximately

$42.0 millio

n of the

$108.3

million reserve would reduce the effective tax rate.  If Sysco were to recognize all unrecognized tax benefits recorded as of

June 30, 2012

, approximately $

37.1

million of the $

104.0

million reserve would reduce the effective tax rate.

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized tax benefits with respect to certain of the company’s unrecognized tax positions will increase or decrease in the next twelve months either because Sysco’s positions are sustained on audit or because the company agrees to their disallowance.  Items that may cause changes to unrecognized tax benefits primarily include the consideration of various filing requirements in various states and the allocation of income and expense between tax jurisdictions.  In addition, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits recognized within the next twelve months may decrease due to the expiration of the statute of limitations for certain years in various jurisdictions; however, it is possible that a jurisdiction may open an audit on one of these years prior to the statute of limitations expiring.  At this time, an estimate of the range of the reasonably possible change cannot be made.

The IRS has open audits for Sysco’s 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 federal income tax returns.  As of June 29, 2013, Sysco’s tax returns in the majority of the state and local jurisdictions and Canada are no longer subject to audit for the years before 2007.  However, some jurisdictions have audits open prior to 2007, with the earliest dating back to 2002.  Certain tax jurisd

ictions require partial to full payment on audit assessments

or the posting of letters of credit

in order to proceed to the appeals process.  Although the outcome of tax audits is generally uncertain, the company believes that adequate amounts of tax, including interest and penalties, have been accrued for any adjustments that may result from those open years.

Other

Undistributed income of certain consolidated foreign subsidiaries at

June 29, 2013

amounte

d to $1,052.0 milli

on for which no deferred U.S. income tax provision has been recorded because Sysco intends to permanently reinvest such income in those foreign operations.

An estimate of any U.S. or foreign withholding taxes that may be applicable upon actual or deemed repatriation is not practical due to the complexities associated with the hypothetical calculation.



. ACQUISITIONS

During fiscal


, in the aggregate, the company paid c

ash of $397.4 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2013 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years.  During fiscal 2013, Sysco acquired for cash foodservice operations in Nassau, Bahamas; San Francisco, California; San Jose, California; Stockton, California; Ontario, Canada; Quebec, Canada; Orlando, Florida; Dublin, Ireland; St. Cloud, Minnesota; Co

.

Down, Northern Ireland; Greenville, Ohio and Houston, Texas.  The fiscal 2013 acquisitions were immaterial, individually and in the aggregate, to the consolidated financial statements.

Certain acquisitions involve contingent consideration typically payable over periods up to

five

years only in the event that certain outstanding contingencies are resolved

.

As of

June 29, 2013

, aggregate contingent consideration amounts outstanding relating to acquisitions was

$


8.


million, of which $

25.3

million could result in the recording of additional goodwill

when paid and $

68.9

million was recorded as earnout liabilities as of June 29, 2013.

20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Legal Proceedings

Sysco is engaged in various legal proceedings which have arisen but have not been fully adjudicated.  The likelihood of loss for these legal proceedings, based on definitions within contingency accounting literature, ranges from remote to reasonably possible to probable.  When probable, the losses have been accrued.  Based on estimates of the range of potential losses associated with these matters, management does not believe the ultimate resolution of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the consolidated financial position or results of operations of the company.  However, the final results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and if the company failed to prevail in one or more of these legal matters, and the associated realized losses were to exceed the company’s current estimates of the range of potential losses, the company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected in future periods.


Fuel Commitments

Sysco routinely enters into forward purchase commitments for a portion of its projected diesel fuel requirements.  As of June 29, 2013, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $204.0 million through August 2014.

Other Commitments

Sysco has committed to aggregate product purchases for resale in order to benefit from a centralized approach to purchasing.  A majority of these agreements expire within one year; however, certain agreements have terms through

fiscal 201

8.  These agreements commit the company to a minimum volume at various pricing terms, including fixed pricing, variable pricing or a combination thereof.  Minimum amounts committed to as of June 29, 2013 totaled approximately $

1,819.1

million.  Minimum amounts committed to by year are as follows:

Sysco has

contracts

with various third party service providers to

receive

information technology services.  The services have been committed for periods up to fiscal 2016 and may be extended.  As of June 29, 2013, the total remaining cost of the services over that period is expected to be approximately $

531.7

million.  A portion of this amount may be reduced by Sysco utilizing less than estimated resources and can be increased by Sysco utilizing more than estimated resources.  Certain agreements allow adjustments for inflation.  Sysco may also cancel a portion or all of the services provided subject to termination fees which decrease over time.  If Sysco were to terminate all of the services in fiscal 2014, the estimated termination fee incurred in fiscal 2014 would range from  approximately $

22.8

million to $32.6 million.


. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

The company has aggregated its operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined in the accounting literature related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise

.

The Broadline reportable segment is an aggregation of the company’s United States, Canadian

,

Caribbean

and European Broadline segments

.

Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to

both traditional and chain restaurant

customers

, hospitals, schools, hotels, industrial caterers and other venues where foodservice products are served.  These companies also provide custom-cut meat operations

.  SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations.  "Other" financial information is attributable to the company's other operating segments, including the company's specialty produce and lodging industry segments

, a company that distributes specialty imported products

and a company that distributes to international customers.

The accounting policies for the segments are the same as those disclosed by Sysco for its consolidated financial statements.  Intersegment sales represent specialty produce and imported specialty products distributed by the Broadline and SYGMA operating companies.

Management evaluates the performance of each of our operating segments based on its respective operating income results

.

Corporate expenses generally include all expenses of the corporate office and Sysco’s shared service center.  These also include all share-based compensation costs and expenses related to the company’s Business Transformation Project.


The following table sets forth the financial information for Sysco’s business segments:


The sales mix for the principal product categories for each fiscal year is as follows:

Information concerning geographic areas is as follows:

(1)

Represents sales to external customers from businesses operating in these countries.

(2)

Long-lived assets represents net property, plant and equipment reported in the country in which they are held.




.  SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR INFORMATION – SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES

On January 19, 2011, the wholly-owned U

nited

S

tates

Broadline

(U.S. Broadline)

subsidiaries of Sysco Corporation entered into full and unconditional guarantees of all outstanding senior notes and debentures of Sysco Corporation

.  Borrowings under the company’s revolving credit facility supporting the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs are also covered by these guarantees.

As of

June 29, 2013

, Sysco had a total of approximately

$

2,


.

5 million in senior notes, debentures and commercial paper outstanding that was covered by these guarantees.  All subsidiary guarantors are 100%-owned by the parent company, all guarantees are full and unconditional and all guarantees are joint and several, except that the guarantee of any subsidiary guarantor with respect to a series of senior notes or debentures may be released under certain customary circumstances.  If we exercise our defeasance option with respect to the senior notes or debentures of any series, then any subsidiary guarantor effectively will be released with respect to that series.  Further, each subsidiary guarantee will remain in full force and effect until the earliest to occur of the date, if any, on which (1) the applicable subsidiary guarantor shall consolidate with or merge into Sysco Corporation or any successor of Sysco Corporation and (2) Sysco Corporation or any successor of Sysco Corporation consolidates with or merges into the applicable subsidiary guarantor.

The following condensed consolidating financial statements present separately the financial position,

comprehensive income

and cash flows of the parent issuer (Sysco Corporation), the guarantors (

the majority of Sysco’s

U.S. Broadline subsidiaries) and all other non-guarantor subsidiaries of Sysco (Other Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries) on a combined basis with eliminating entries.






. QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)

Financial information for each quarter in the years ended

June 29, 2013

and

June 30, 2012

is set forth below:

Financial results are impacted by accounting changes and the adoption of various accounting standards

.

See

Note


, “Changes in Accounting.

”


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Sysco’s management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of

June 29, 2013.

The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms

.

Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding the required disclosure

.

Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls

and procedures

.

Sysco’s disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives

.

Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of

June 29, 2013

, our chief executive officer and chief

financial officer concluded that, as of such date, Sysco’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.

Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting is included in the financial statement

pages at page


.

No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the E

x

change Act) occurred during the fiscal quarter ended

June 29, 2013

that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting

.

Item 9B.

Other Information

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information required by this item will be included in our proxy statement for the


Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the following captions, and is incorporated herein by reference thereto: “Corporate Governance,” “Executive Officers,” “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,” “Report of the Audit Committee” and “Board of Directors Matters.”

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by this item will be included in our proxy statement for the


Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the following captions, and is incorporated herein by reference thereto: “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Report of the Compensation Committee,” “Director Compensation” and “Executive Compensation.”

Item 12

.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item will be included in our proxy statement for the


Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the following captions, and is incorporated herein by reference thereto: “Stock Ownership” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information.”

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The information required by this item will be included in our proxy statement for the


Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the following caption, and is incorporated herein by reference thereto: “Corporate Governance – Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions” and “Corporate Governance – Director Independence.”


Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information required by this item will be included in our proxy statement for the


Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the following caption, and is incorporated herein by reference thereto: “Fees Paid to Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.”

PART IV

I

tem 15.

Exhibits

(a) The following documents are filed, or incorporated by reference, as part of this Form 10-K:

1.

All financial statements.  See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

on page


of this Form

10-K.

2.

All financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the information is set forth in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

3.

Exhibits.

The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference, are filed or furnished as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


S

IGNATURE

S

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on

thi

s 26th d

ay of August, 20


.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Sysco Corporation in the capacities indicated and on the date indicated above.

PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE, FINANCIAL & ACCOUNTING OFFICERS:

DIRECTORS:


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibits.

_________

†  Executive Compensation Arrangement pursuant to 601(b)(10)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K

#  Filed Herewith

Note:  Debt instruments of Sysco Corporation and its subsidiaries defining the rights of long-term debt holders in principal amounts not exceeding 10% of Sysco Corporation’s consolidated assets have been omitted and will be provided to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.