ITEM 1.          BUSINESS



Overview



Monster Beverage Corporation, formerly named Hansen Natural Corporation, was incorporated in Delaware on April 25, 1990. Our principal place of business is located at 550 Monica Circle, Suite 201, Corona, California 92880 and our telephone number is (951) 739-6200. When this report uses the words “Monster Energy Company”, “Monster”, “MBC”, “MEC”, “Hansen”, “Hansen Beverage Company”, “HBC”, “the Company”, “we”, “us”, and “our”, these words refer to Monster Beverage Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. We are a holding company and conduct no operating business except through our consolidated subsidiaries.



On January 11, 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a two-for-one stock split of our common stock (“the Stock Split”) to be effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend. The common stock dividend was issued on February 15, 2012 to stockholders of record as of February 6, 2012. Accordingly, all per share amounts, average common stock outstanding, common stock outstanding, common stock repurchased, common stock in treasury and equity based compensation presented in this Form 10-K have been adjusted retroactively, where applicable, to reflect the stock split.



We develop, market, sell and distribute “alternative” beverage category beverages primarily under the following brand names:



·Monster Energy®·Hansen’s®·Monster   Rehab™·Hansen’s   Natural Soda®·Monster   Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®·Junior   Juice®·Java   Monster®·Blue   Sky®·X-Presso   Monster®·Hubert’s®·Worx   Energy®·Vidration®·Peace Tea®



Our Monster Energy® drinks, which represented 91.2%, 89.9% and 90.0% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, include the following:



·Monster   Energy®·Java   Monster® Kona Blend·Lo-Carb   Monster Energy®·Java   Monster® Loca Moca®·Monster   Energy® Assault®·Java   Monster® Mean Bean®·Monster   Khaos®·Java   Monster® Vanilla Light·Monster   M-80® (named “RIPPER” in certain countries)·Java   Monster® Irish Blend®·Monster   MIXXD®·Java   Monster® Toffee·Monster   Energy® Absolutely Zero·Monster   Energy® Import·Monster   Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology® Super Dry™·Monster   Energy® Import Light·Monster   Energy® Dub Edition·Monster   Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology® Anti-Gravity®·Monster   Rehab™ Tea + Lemonade + Energy·Monster   Rehab™ Rojo Tea + Energy·Monster   Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology® Killer B®·Monster   Rehab™ Green Tea + Energy·Monster   Rehab™ Protean + Energy·Monster   Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology® Black Ice™·Monster   Energy® M3™ Super Concentrate·X-Presso   Monster® Hammer·X-Presso   Monster® Midnite











Industry Overview



The “alternative” beverage category combines non-carbonated ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades, juice cocktails, single-serve juices and fruit beverages, ready-to-drink dairy and coffee drinks, energy drinks, sports drinks, and single-serve still water (flavored, unflavored and enhanced) with “new age” beverages, including sodas that are considered natural, sparkling juices and flavored sparkling beverages. According to Beverage Marketing Corporation, domestic U.S. wholesale sales in 2011 for the “alternative” beverage category of the market are estimated at $31.9 billion, representing an increase of approximately 5.1% over the estimated domestic U.S. wholesale sales in 2010 of approximately $30.4 billion (revised from a previously reported estimate of $27.3 billion).



Corporate History



In the 1930s, Hubert Hansen and his sons started a business to sell fresh non-pasteurized juices in Los Angeles, California. This business eventually became Hansen’s Juices, Inc., which subsequently became known as The Fresh Juice Company of California, Inc. (“FJC”).  FJC retained the right to market and sell fresh non-pasteurized juices under the Hansen’s trademark. In 1977, Tim Hansen, one of the grandsons of Hubert Hansen, perceived a demand for shelf stable pasteurized natural juices and juice blends and formed Hansen Foods, Inc. (“HFI”). HFI expanded its product line from juices to include Hansen’s Natural Soda® brand sodas. In 1990, California Co-Packers Corporation (d/b/a Hansen Beverage Company) (“CCC”) acquired certain assets of HFI, including the right to market the Hansen’s® brand name. In 1992, we acquired the Hansen’s® brand natural soda and apple juice business from CCC. Under our ownership, the Hansen beverage business has significantly expanded and includes a wide range of beverages within the growing “alternative” beverage category, including in particular, energy drinks. In 1999, we acquired all of FJC’s rights to manufacture, sell and distribute fresh non-pasteurized juice products under the Hansen’s® trademark together with certain additional rights.



Reportable Segments



We have two reportable segments, namely Direct Store Delivery (“DSD”), whose principal products comprise energy drinks, and Warehouse (“Warehouse”), whose principal products comprise juice based and soda beverages. The DSD segment develops, markets and sells products primarily through an exclusive distributor network, whereas the Warehouse segment develops, markets and sells products primarily directly to retailers. Corporate and unallocated amounts that do not relate to the DSD or Warehouse segments specifically, have been allocated to “Corporate and Unallocated.” Our DSD segment represented 94.4%, 93.0% and 91.4% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our Warehouse segment represented 5.6%, 7.0% and 8.6% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



For financial information about our reporting segments and geographic areas, refer to Note 16 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in “Part II, Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report, incorporated herein by reference.  For certain risks with respect to our energy drinks see “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors” below.



2011 Product Introductions



During 2011, we continued to expand our existing product lines and flavors and further develop our distribution markets.  In particular, we continued to focus on developing and marketing beverages that fall within the category generally described as the “alternative” beverage category. During 2011, we introduced a number of new products including the following:



·Monster Rehab™ Tea + Lemonade + Energy, a non-carbonated rehydration energy drink (February 2011).











·Peace Tea® “Caddy Shack”, a non-carbonated tea + lemonade drink (February 2011).

·Monster Rehab™ Rojo Tea + Energy, a non-carbonated rehydration energy drink (October 2011).

·Monster Rehab™ Green Tea + Energy, a non-carbonated rehydration energy drink (October 2011).

·Monster Rehab™ Protean + Energy, a non-carbonated protein rehydration energy drink (October 2011).

·Hubert’s® Half & Half, a line of premium ready-to-drink lemonade + teas (October 2011).

·Angeleno™ Aguas Fresca, a line of premium ready-to-drink aguas frescas (December 2011).



Products – DSD Segment



Monster Energy® Drinks- In 2002, we launched a new carbonated energy drink under the Monster Energy® brand name in 16-ounce cans, which was almost double the size of our original Hansen’s® brand energy drinks (in 8.3-ounce cans) and the vast majority of competitive energy drinks on the market at that time. Our Monster Energy® drinks contain vitamins, minerals, nutrients, herbs and supplements (collectively, “supplements”) and are marketed through our full service distributor network. We offer the following products under the Monster Energy® brand energy drink product line: Monster Energy®,Lo-Carb Monster Energy®, Monster Energy®Assault®, Monster Khaos®, Monster M-80®(named RIPPER® in certain countries), Monster MIXXD®, Monster Energy® Absolutely Zero, Monster Energy® Import and Import Light, Monster Energy® Dub Edition and Monster Energy® M3™ Super Concentrate energy drinks. We package our Monster Energy® drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 12-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 23.5-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml and/or 18.6-ounce aluminum cans and/or 5-ounce glass bottles.



Java Monster®Coffee + Energy Drinks- A line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee + energy drinks. We offer the following products under the Java Monster®product line: Java Monster®Kona Blend, Java Monster® Loca Moca®, Java Monster® Mean Bean®, Java Monster® Vanilla Light, Java Monster® Irish Blend® and Java Monster® Toffee. We package our Java Monster® coffee + energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum cans.



Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®Energy Drinks- A line of carbonated energy drinks containing nitrous oxide. We offer the following products under the Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®product line: Super Dry™, Anti Gravity®, Killer-B®and Black Ice™. We package our Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®drinks in 12-ounce sleek aluminum cap-cans.



X-Presso Monster® Coffee Energy Drinks- A line of non-carbonated dairy based espresso + energy drinks in 6.75-ounce and/or 9.6-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the following products under the X-Presso Monster®coffee energy drinks product line: X-Presso Monster® Hammer and X-Presso Monster® Midnite.



Monster Rehab™ Tea + Energy Drinks- A line of non-carbonated rehydration energy drinks with electrolytes in 15.5-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the following products under the Monster Rehab™ drink line: Monster Rehab™ Tea + Lemonade + Energy, Monster Rehab™ Rojo Tea + Energy, Monster Rehab™ Green Tea + Energy and Monster Rehab™ Protean + Energy.



Worx Energy®Energy Shots- A line of energy supplements which contains zero calories and zero sugar in 2-ounce wide-mouth PET plastic bottles. We offer the following products under the Worx Energy® energy shot product line: Original Formula and Extra Strength.











Peace Tea® Iced Teas- A line of ready-to-drink iced teas in 23-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the following products under the Peace Tea® product line: green tea, diet green tea, imported Ceylon tea, sweet lemon tea, razzleberry tea, unsweetened tea and “Caddy Shack” tea + lemonade (introduced in the first quarter of 2011).



Products – Warehouse Segment



Hansen’s Natural Soda® Brand Sodas -Hansen’s Natural Soda® brand sodas have been a leading natural soda brand on the West Coast of the United States for more than 30 years. Hansen’s Natural Soda® brand sodas, sweetened with cane sugar, and Hansen’s® Diet Sodas, sweetened with Splenda® no calorie sweetener and Acesulfame-K, contain no preservatives, no sodium, no caffeine and no artificial coloring. We offer the following sodas under the Hansen’s® brand name:Hansen’s Natural Soda®, Hansen’s® Diet Sodas and Hansen’s® Natural Mixers, as well as Hansen’s® Sparkling Waters, in a variety of flavors. We package our natural sodas and sparkling waters in 12-ounce aluminum cans and our mixers in 8-ounce aluminum cans.



Blue Sky®Products- Our Blue Sky® products contain no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, caffeine (other than our Blue Sky® energy drinks) or artificial coloring and are made with sugar and high quality natural flavors. We offer the following products under the Blue Sky® product line: Blue Sky® Natural Soda, Blue Sky® Free Sodas (sweetened with Truvia® brand stevia extract (“Truvia®”), an all natural sweetener), Blue Sky® Premium Sodas, Blue Sky® Organic Natural Sodas, Blue Sky® Seltzer Waters, Blue Sky® Blue Energy® drinks, Blue Sky® Free Blue Energy® drinks and Blue Sky® Café Energy drinks. In October 2011, we introduced Blue Sky® Recover Energy™ drink, a new natural, non-carbonated recovery energy drink with electrolytes, sweetened with Truvia®. We package our Blue Sky® natural sodas and seltzer waters in 12-ounce aluminum cans and/or bag in box. We package our Blue Sky® Café energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum cans. We package our Blue Sky® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 16-ounce aluminum cans.



Hansen’s®Energy Drinks- Our original Hansen’s®energy drinks compete in the “functional” beverage category, namely, beverages that provide a real or perceived benefit in addition to simply delivering refreshment. We offer the following products under the Hansen’s®energy drink product line: Hansen’s® Natural Energy Pro and Hansen’s®Energy Diet Red.We package our Hansen’s® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce aluminum cans.



Hansen’s® Juice Products and Smoothies- Our fruit juice product line includes Hansen’s® Natural Apple Juice, which is packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles and 128-ounce High Density Polyethylene bottles; as well as Hansen’s® Natural Grape Juice, White Grape Juice, Pineapple Juice, Apple Grape Juice, Apple Strawberry Juice, Orange Juice, Cranberry-Apple Juice, Ruby Red Grapefruit Juice, and Organic Apple Juice, which are all packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles. In March 2011, we added Hansen’s® Natural Cranberry Juice and Cranberry-Grape Juices. These Hansen’s® juice products contain 100% juice as well as 120% of the United States Recommended Daily Allowances (the “USRDA”) for vitamin C. We also offer Hansen’s® Natural Lo-Cal juice cocktails, a line of all natural, low-calorie 64-ounce juice cocktails in four flavors. The Lo-Cal juice cocktails are sweetened with Truvia®. Hansen’s® juice products compete in the shelf-stable juice category.



Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies contain approximately 25% juice and provide 100% of the USRDA for adults of vitamins A, C & E. Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies are packaged in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans.



Hansen’s® Aseptic Juices –We offer a number of aseptically packed boxed juice products, including our dual-branded multi-vitamin 100% juice line, which we sell in conjunction with Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”) through Costco stores. We offer our Hansen’s® Natural line of multi-vitamin 100% juices to other customers. These multi-vitamin juices contain eleven essential vitamins and six essential minerals, are packaged in 6.75-ounce aseptic boxes, and are available in a variety of flavors.











Our Hansen’s® Junior Juice® product line is a 100% juice line offered principally in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages, targeted at toddlers and preschoolers. These juices have added calcium and all flavors contain 100% of the daily recommended allowance of vitamin C. We also offer organic juices in 4.23-ounce aseptic boxes. In October 2011, we launched Junior Juice® Coconut Water Twist™, a line of fruit and coconut water juices packaged in 6.75-ounce aseptic boxes and available in a number of flavors. We also market Hansen’s® Organic Junior Water®, a lightly flavored reduced calorie beverage line, also packaged in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages.



Hubert’s® Lemonades –Our Hubert’s®Lemonade is a line of premium ready-to-drink lemonades packaged in 16-ounce glass bottles. Hubert’s®Lemonade is sweetened with cane sugar and Truvia®. Hubert’s®Lemonade is all natural and contains no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, caffeine, or artificial colorings. We offer the following products under the Hubert’s®Lemonade product line: strawberry lemonade, limeade, mango lemonade, honey lemonade, raspberry lemonade and original lemonade.



In October 2011, we introduced Hubert’s® Half & Half, a line of premium ready-to-drink lemonade + tea drinks, packaged in 15.5-ounce aluminum cans and available in a variety of flavors. Hubert’s® Half & Half is sweetened with cane sugar and Truvia®, and contains no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, or artificial colorings.



Hansen’s® Natural Fruit Stix®and Tea Stix™ -Our Fruit and Tea Stix™ product line is an all-natural, low-calorie powder drink mix line, sweetened naturally with Truvia®. Hansen’s® Natural Fruit Stix® and Tea Stix™ powders are packaged in 3-gram and 4-gram slim stick packs.



Vidration® Enhanced Waters - Our zero calorie, vitamin enhanced flavored water line is offered under the Vidration® brand name, packaged in 20-ounce PET plastic bottles. This line includes the following beverages: Defense, Recover, Energy, Multi-V and Power.



Angeleno™ Aquas Frescas- In December 2011, we introduced Angeleno™ Aguas Frescas, a line of premium ready-to-drink aguas frescas packaged in 16-ounce glass bottles. Angeleno™ Aguas Frescas are sweetened with cane sugar and real fruit juice and contain no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, caffeine, or artificial colorings. We offer the following flavors under the Angeleno™ Aguas Frescas product line: Mango, Melon, Pineapple, Jamaica (Hibiscus), and Tamarindo.



PRE® Beverages and Drink Mixes -In December 2011, we acquired PRE Beverage’s assets which include a line of prebiotic and probiotic digestive wellness ready-to-drink beverages and powder drink mixes, containing specially formulated blends by Jarrow Formulas. PRE®prebiotic ready-to-drink beverages are sweetened with either cane sugar or stevia and are packaged in proprietary 16.9-ounce PET plastic bottles. PRE®probiotic powder drink mixes are sweetened with cane sugar and stevia and are packaged in 7-gram stick packs.



Other Products



We continue to evaluate and, where considered appropriate, introduce additional flavors and types of beverages to complement our existing product lines. We may also evaluate, and where considered appropriate, introduce additional types of consumer products we consider are complementary to our existing products and/or to which our brand names are able to add value.











We also develop and supply, on a limited basis, selected beverages in different formats to a limited number of customers with the objective of solidifying and/or enhancing our relationship with those customers.



Manufacture and Distribution



We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource the manufacturing process to third party bottlers and contract packers.



We purchase concentrates, juices, flavors, supplements, cans, bottles, aseptic boxes, caps, labels, trays, boxes and other ingredients for our beverage products from our suppliers, which are delivered to our various third party bottlers and co-packers. Depending on the product, the third party bottlers or packers add filtered water and/or other ingredients and supplements for the manufacture and packaging of the finished products into our approved containers in accordance with our formulas. Depending on the beverage, the bottler/packer may also add carbonation to the products as part of the production process.



Co-Packing Arrangements



All of our beverage products are manufactured by various third party bottlers and co-packers situated throughout the United States and abroad, under separate arrangements with each party. The majority of our co-packaging arrangements are generally on a month-to-month basis or are terminable upon request and do not generally obligate us to produce any minimum quantities of products within specified periods.



In some instances subject to agreement, certain equipment may be purchased by us and installed at the facilities of our co-packers to enable them to produce certain of our products. In general, such equipment remains our property and is returned to us upon termination of the packing arrangements with such co-packers, unless we are reimbursed by the co-packer via a per case charge over a pre-determined number of cases that are produced at the facilities concerned.



We are generally responsible for arranging for the purchase and delivery to our third party bottlers and co-packers of the containers in which our beverage products are packaged.



We pack certain of our products in a number of locations both domestically and internationally, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Europe, Mexico and the United States, to enable us to produce products closer to the markets where they are sold with the objective of reducing freight costs. As distribution volumes increase in both our domestic and international markets, we continue to source additional packing arrangements closer to such markets to further reduce freight costs. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products and/or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, aseptic boxes, glass, labels, flavors, juice concentrates, supplements, other ingredients, certain sweeteners, and/or procure adequate packing arrangements and/or obtain adequate or timely shipment of our products, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. (See “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors”).



Although our production arrangements are generally of short duration or are terminable upon our request, we believe a short disruption or delay would not significantly affect our revenues because alternative packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity can usually be obtained for many of our products at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. However, there are limited packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for certain of our products, including Monster Energy®, Monster Rehab™, Monster Energy® Import and Import Light, Monster Energy® Dub Edition, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®, X-Presso Monster®, Worx Energy® energy shots, our Java Monster® product line and our aseptic juice products.











A lengthy disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues from such products, as alternative co-packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity may not be available for such products, either at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products could affect our revenues.



We continue to seek alternative and/or additional advantageously located co-packing facilities in Asia, Canada, Central America, Europe, South America and the United States with adequate capacity and capability for the production of our various products to minimize the risk of a disruption in production.



Distribution Agreements



During 2011, we continued to expand distribution of our products in both the domestic and international markets, and our Monster Energy® drinks are now sold in approximately 70 countries and territories around the world.



Certain of our distribution agreements, as amended from time to time, are described below:



(a)During the   second quarter of 2006, we entered into the Monster Beverages Off-Premise   Distribution Coordination Agreement and the Allied Products Distribution   Coordination Agreement (jointly, the “Off-Premise Agreements”) with   Anheuser-Busch, Inc., a Missouri corporation (“AB”). Under the   Off-Premise Agreements, select Anheuser-Busch distributors (the “AB   Distributors”) distribute and sell, primarily our Monster Energy® beverages,   as well as additional products that may be agreed between the parties in   various territories wihtin the United States.



(b)During the first   quarter of 2007, we entered into the On-Premise Distribution Coordination   Agreement (the “On-Premise Agreement”) with AB. Under the On-Premise   Agreement, select AB Distributors distribute and sell our Monster Energy®   beverages to on-premise retailers including bars, nightclubs and restaurants.



(c)During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Distribution   Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC North American Coordination Agreement”) with   The Coca-Cola Company (“TCCC”). Pursuant to the TCCC North American   Coordination Agreement, we have designated, and in the future may designate,   subject to TCCC’s approval, territories in Canada and the United States in   which bottlers from TCCC’s network of wholly or partially-owned and   independent bottlers, including Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (“CCE”) (now   Coca-Cola Refreshments USA, Inc. (“CCR”)), Coca-Cola Bottling Company   (“CCBC”), CCBCC Operations, LLC (“Consolidated”), United Bottling Contracts   Company, LLC (“United”), and other TCCC independent bottlers (collectively,   the “TCCC North American Bottlers”) will distribute and sell primarily our   Monster Energy® beverages (the “Products”).



(d)During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Distribution   Agreement with CCE (now CCR), pursuant to which CCE was appointed to   distribute, directly and through certain sub-distributors, the Products in   portions of the United States.



(e)During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Canadian   Distribution Agreement with CCBC (now Coca-Cola Refreshments   Canada, Ltd. (“CCRC”)), pursuant to which CCBC was appointed to   distribute and sell, directly and through certain sub-distributors, the   Products in Canada, commencing January 1, 2009.











(f)During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into distribution agreements with   Consolidated, United and other TCCC North American Bottlers for the distribution   of the Products in various territories within the United States.



(g)On   October 2, 2010, TCCC completed its acquisition of the North American   business operations of CCE, through a merger with a wholly owned subsidiary   of TCCC. The surviving wholly owned subsidiary was subsequently renamed CCR,   and currently distributes the Products in those portions of the United States   in which CCE previously distributed the Products. Concurrently with this   acquisition, a new entity, which retained the name Coca-Cola   Enterprises, Inc. (“New CCE”) was formed, which currently distributes   the Products in certain European territories (see (i) below).



(h)During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy International   Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC International Coordination Agreement”) with   TCCC. Pursuant to the TCCC International Coordination Agreement, we have   designated, and in the future may designate, countries in which we wish to   appoint TCCC distributors to distribute and sell the Products, subject to   TCCC’s approval.



(i)During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy International   Distribution Agreement and the Monster Energy Belgium Distribution Agreement   with CCE (now New CCE) pursuant to which CCE was appointed to distribute   directly, and through certain sub-distributors, the Products in Great   Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Monaco. During the   first quarter of 2011, Sweden was added to the Monster Energy International   Distribution Agreement.



(j)During 2010 and   2011, the Company entered into distribution agreements with certain bottlers   of the Coca-Cola Hellenic group (“Coca-Cola Hellenic”) for distribution of   its Monster Energy® products in Austria, Bulgaria, Czech-Republic, Hungary,   Slovakia, Cyprus, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and Switzerland. In the   first quarter of 2012, Coca-Cola Hellenic commenced distribution in Poland.



(k)During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into a distribution agreement with   Comercializadora Eloro, S.A., a subsidiary of Grupo Jumex (“Jumex”), for   exclusive distribution throughout Mexico, excluding the Baja and Sonora   regions, for certain of our Monster Energy® beverages. Distribution under   this agreement commenced January 26, 2009. Effective June 11, 2010,   this agreement was amended to include the Baja and Sonora regions.



(l)During the   second quarter of 2009, we entered into a distribution agreement with   Schweppes Australia Pty Ltd. for exclusive distribution throughout Australia   of certain of our Monster Energy® energy drinks. Distribution under this   agreement commenced in July 2009.



(m)On   September 12, 2011, we entered into a distribution agreement with Lotte   Chilsung Beverage Co. Ltd. for exclusive distribution throughout South Korea   of certain of our Monster Energy® beverages. Distribution under this   agreement is expected to commence in the first half of 2012.



(n)On   August 17, 2011, we entered into a distribution agreement with Asahi   Soft Drinks Co, Ltd. for exclusive distribution throughout Japan of   certain of our Monster Energy® beverages. Distribution under this agreement   is expected to commence in the first half of 2012.



Distribution levels vary by product and geographic location. Gross sales outside the United States accounted for $381.0 million, $240.6 million and $168.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.











We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with other regional bottlers or direct store delivery distributors with established sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other beverage products. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.



Raw Materials and Suppliers



The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products are aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk, cream and supplements, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. Overall prices of our raw materials increased in 2011 as compared to 2010 and certain raw material costs are continuing to increase in 2012. We have contracted for the majority of our projected aluminum can requirements for 2012 at more favorable pricing than in 2011, due to more favorable aluminum pricing contracts entered into by us with our aluminum can suppliers. Although the price of apple juice concentrate has increased significantly, we have secured a portion of our anticipated 2012 requirements of apple juice concentrate at prices similar to the pricing incurred in 2011, however, we expect our average cost of apple juice concentrate in 2012 to be higher than 2011. Sugar prices were higher in 2011 than 2010 and are continuing to increase. We have also secured a large portion of our sugar requirements for 2012. We are experiencing increased costs of PET plastic bottles, fuel, as well as certain juice concentrates, certain supplements and other ingredients in 2012.



We purchase beverage flavors, concentrates, juices, supplements, cane sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as well as other ingredients from independent suppliers located in the United States and abroad.



Generally, raw materials utilized by us in our business are readily available from numerous sources. However, certain raw materials are manufactured by only one company.  We purchase sucralose, which is used alone or in combination with Acesulfame-K in many of our products, flavors, vitamin blends and herbs, certain other supplements, as well as certain other ingredients, from single manufacturers. Additionally, certain of our cans and flavors are only manufactured by single companies.



With regard to our Java Monster® product line, the dairy industry is subject to shortages and increased demand from time to time, which may result in higher prices.



With regard to our fruit juice and juice-drink products, the industry is subject to variability of demand and weather conditions, which may result in higher prices and/or lower consumer demand for juices.



Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors and do not make their flavor formulas available to their customers and also do not make our flavors available to other third parties.  Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain comparable flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. We have identified alternative suppliers for many of the ingredients contained in many of our beverages. However, industry-wide shortages of certain fruits and fruit juices, coffee, tea, supplements and sweeteners have been, and could from time to time in the future be, encountered, which could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products.



We continually endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for certain of our flavors and concentrates as well as to negotiate arrangements with suppliers, which would enable us to obtain access to certain concentrates or our flavor formulas in certain circumstances. We have been partially successful in these endeavors. Additionally, in a limited number of cases, contractual restrictions and/or the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals and licenses may limit our ability to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers, manufacturers and/or distributors.











In connection with the development of new products and flavors, independent suppliers bear a large portion of the expense of product development, thereby enabling us to develop new products and flavors at a relatively low cost. We have historically developed and successfully introduced new products, flavors and packaging for our products and intend to continue to develop and introduce additional new beverages, flavors and innovative packaging.



Competition



The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors as well as promotional and marketing strategies. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.



Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development and marketing of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising, and pricing. We also compete for distributors who will give our products more focus than those of our competitors, provide stable and reliable distribution and secure adequate shelf space in retail outlets. Competitive pressures in the “alternative”, energy, coffee and “functional” beverage categories could cause our products to be unable to gain or to lose market share or we could experience price erosion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.



We have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the energy drink and energy shot categories. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas, juice cocktails and enhanced waters in larger volume packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Sobe Life Water, Vitamin Water, Snapple, Arizona, Fuse, Ocean Spray, Honest Tea, Gold Peak Tea, Activate and Neuro, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits. We believe that many of those products contain lower levels of supplements, principally deliver refreshment and are positioned differently from our energy or “functional” drinks. Our Peace Tea® ready-to-drink iced teas are positioned more closely against those products.



We are also subject to increasing levels of regulatory issues particularly in relation to the registration and taxation of our products in certain new international markets, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage.



We compete not only for consumer preference, but also for maximum marketing and sales efforts by multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors, many of which have a principal affiliation with competing companies and brands. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and in many cases with products of much larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Inc. (“PepsiCo”), The Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the “DPS Group”), Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and Ocean Spray. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local in operation. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.



Domestically, our energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, 5-Hour Energy Shots, Stacker 2, VPX Redline Energy Shots, and many other brands. TCCC and PepsiCo also market and/or distribute additional products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew











MDX and Vault. Internationally, our energy drinks compete with Red Bull, Rockstar, Burn, V-Energy, Lucozade, Relentless and numerous local and private label brands that usually differ from country to country, such as Power Play, Mother, Hell, Shock, Tiger and a host of other international brands.



Our Java Monster® and X-Presso Monster® product lines compete directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Seattle’s Best, illy issimo coffee and Full Throttle Coffee.



Our Peace Tea® ready to drink iced tea product line competes directly with Arizona, Lipton, Snapple, Nestea, Xing Tea, Honest Tea, Gold Peak Tea and other tea brands.



Our natural sodas compete directly with traditional soda products, including those marketed by TCCC, PepsiCo, the DPS Group, Cott Corporation and National Beverage Corporation, as well as with carbonated beverages marketed by smaller or primarily local companies such as Jones Soda Co., Clearly Canadian Beverage Company, Crystal Geyser, J.M. Smucker Company and with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.



Our apple and other juice products compete directly with Tree Top, Mott’s, Martinelli’s, Welch’s, Ocean Spray, Tropicana, Minute Maid, Langers, Apple and Eve, Seneca, Northland, Juicy Juice and also with other brands of apple juice and juice blends, including store brands.



Our fruit juice smoothies compete directly with Kern’s, Jumex and Jugos del Valle as well as with single-serve juice products produced by many competitors.



Our Hubert’s®Lemonades and Hubert’s® Half & Half lemonade + teas compete directly with Calypso, Simply Lemonade, Mistic Drinks and Newman’s Own.



Sales and Marketing



Our sales and marketing strategy for all our beverages is to focus our efforts on developing brand awareness through image enhancing programs and product sampling. We use our branded vehicles and other promotional vehicles at events where we offer samples of our products to consumers. We utilize “push-pull” methods to enhance shelf and display space exposure in sales outlets (including advertising, in-store promotions and in-store placement of point-of-sale materials, racks, coolers and barrel coolers) to enhance demand from consumers for our products. We also support our brands with prize promotions, price promotions, competitions, endorsements from selected public and extreme sports figures, personality endorsements (including from television and other well known sports personalities), coupons, sampling and sponsorship of selected causes, events, athletes and teams. In-store posters, outdoor posters, print, radio and television advertising and coupons may also be used to promote our brands.



We believe that one of the keys to success in the beverage industry is differentiation, making our brands and products visually distinctive from other beverages on the shelves of retailers. We review our products and packaging on an ongoing basis and, where practical, endeavor to make them different, better and unique. The labels and graphics for many of our products are redesigned from time to time to maximize their visibility and identification, wherever they may be placed in stores, which we will continue to reevaluate from time to time.



Where appropriate, we partner with retailers to assist our marketing efforts. For example, while we retain responsibility for the marketing of our Hansen’s® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks, Costco has undertaken partial responsibility for the marketing of the Juice Blast® line.











We increased expenditures for our sales and marketing programs by approximately 46.8% in 2011 compared to 2010. As of December 31, 2011, we employed 1,543 employees in sales and marketing activities, of which 701 were employed on a full-time basis.



Customers



Our customers are primarily full service beverage distributors, retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, drug chains, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, health food distributors, food service customers and the military. Gross sales to our various customer types for the years ended December 2011, 2010 and 2009 are reflected below. Such information reflects sales made by us directly to the customer types concerned, which include our full service beverage distributors in the United States. Such full service beverage distributors in turn sell certain of our products to the same customer types listed below. We do not have complete details of the sales of our products by our full service distributors to their respective customers and therefore limit our description of our customer types to include only our sales to such full service distributors, without reference to such distributor’s sales to their own customers.



201120102009Full service   distributors64%64%66%Club stores, drug   chains & mass merchandisers10%12%12%Outside the U.S.20%16%13%Retail grocery,   specialty chains and wholesalers4%6%6%Other2%2%3%



Our customers include the TCCC North American Bottlers, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), AB Distributors, certain bottlers of Coca-Cola Hellenic, Kalil Bottling Group, Trader Joe’s, John Lenore & Company, Swire Coca-Cola, Costco, SUPERVALU INC, The Kroger Co. and Safeway, Inc.  CCR accounted for approximately 29% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011.  CCE, which included their operations in the U.S. for the relevant periods (see Distribution Agreements (g) in “Item I – Business – Distribution Agreements”), accounted for approximately 28% and 27% our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Seasonality



Sales of ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for the highest sales volumes. The volume of sales in the beverage business may be affected by weather conditions. Sales of our beverage products are becoming increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations as more sales occur outside of California with respect to our products. However, the energy drink category appears to be less seasonal than traditional beverages. Quarterly fluctuations may also be affected by other factors including the introduction of new products, the opening of new markets, particularly internationally, where temperature fluctuations may be more pronounced, the addition of new bottlers and distributors, changes in the mix of the sales of our finished products and increased or decreased advertising and promotional expenses.



Intellectual Property



We presently have approximately 2,500 registered trademarks and pending applications in various countries worldwide, and we apply for new trademarks on an ongoing basis. We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and similar intellectual property as very important to our business.  We consider Monster®, Monster Energy®,®, M Monster Energy®, Monster Rehab™, Java Monster®, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®,  X-Presso Monster®, Hansen’s Natural Soda®, Hansen’s®, Peace Tea®, Worx Energy®, Blue Sky®, Hubert’s® and Junior Juice® to be our core trademarks.











We protect our trademarks by applying for registrations and registering our trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with government agencies in other countries around the world, particularly where our products are distributed and sold.  We also register copyrights in the statements, graphics and content appearing on the packaging of our products.



Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed as long as the trademarks are in use.



We enforce and protect our trademark rights against third parties infringing or denigrating our trademarks by opposing registration of infringing trademarks, and initiating litigation as necessary.



Government Regulation



The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are subject to various U.S. federal and state regulations, including but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and a number of other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are also subject to numerous similar and other statutes and regulations.



We are also subject to Proposition 65 in California, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in California that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects in excess of certain levels. If we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold, it is difficult to predict whether, or to what extent, such a warning would have an impact on sales of our products in those locations or elsewhere. While none of our beverage products are currently required to display warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether a component of any of our products might be included in the future.



Proposals to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or restrict the venues in which energy drinks can be sold and/or impose taxation on the sale of energy drinks, continue to surface and are currently pending before certain state and/or county and/or foreign country legislatures and may from time to time be proposed and/or enacted by such legislatures. Should these current or any future proposals to enact legislation to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or the venues in which energy drinks can be sold and/or impose taxation on the sale of energy drinks, succeed and become widespread, such legislation could result in a reduction in demand for our energy drinks and adversely affect our results of operations, see “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors” below.



Measures have been enacted in various localities and/or states and/or foreign countries that require that a deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary by jurisdiction. Other deposit, recycling or product stewardship proposals have been introduced in certain states and localities and in the Congress of the United States and/or in certain foreign countries, and we anticipate that additional legislation or regulations in this regard may be proposed in the future at the local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere.











Public health officials and health advocates are increasingly focused on the public health consequences associated with obesity, especially as the disease affects children, and are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of sweetened beverages.  Increasing public concern about these issues could result in the implementation of governmental regulations concerning the marketing, labeling or availability of our beverages.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has proposed revising regulations with respect to serving size information and nutrition labeling on food and beverage products.



Compliance with Environmental Laws



Our facilities in the United States are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Our operations in other countries are subject to similar laws and regulations that may be applicable in such countries. Compliance with these provisions has not had, nor do we expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, net income or competitive position.



In California, we are required to collect redemption values from our customers and to remit such redemption values to the State of California Department of Conservation based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold. In certain other states and countries where our products are sold, we are also required to collect deposits from our customers and to remit such deposits to the respective jurisdictions based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold in such states.



Employees



As of December 31, 2011, we employed a total of 1,900 employees of which 1,047 were employed on a full-time basis. Of our 1,900 employees, we employed 357 in administrative and operational capacities and 1,543 persons in sales and marketing capacities.



Available Information



As a public company, we are required to file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A and other information (including any amendments) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  You may read and copy such material at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  You can also find the Company’s SEC filings at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.



Our Internet address iswww.monsterbevcorp.com.  Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our SEC filings (including any amendments) will be made available free of charge onwww.monsterbevcorp.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing to, or telephoning us at the following address or telephone number:



Monster Beverage Corporation

550 Monica Circle, Suite 201

Corona, CA 92880

(951) 739-6200

(800) 426-7367











