ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview



Hansen Natural Corporation was incorporated in
Delaware on April 25, 1990. Our principal place of business is located at
550 Monica Circle, Suite 201, Corona, California 92880 and our telephone
number is (951) 739-6200. When this report uses the words “Hansen”, “HBC” “the
Company”, “we”, “us”, and “our”, these words refer to Hansen Natural
Corporation and our subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.



We are
a holding company and conduct no operating business except through our
consolidated subsidiaries: Hansen Beverage Company (“HBC”), Monster LDA
Company, formerly known as Hard e Beverage Company and previously known as Hard
Energy Company and as CVI Ventures, Inc., Monster Energy Europe Limited (“MEEL”)
(incorporated in the United Kingdom), Monster Energy Limited (“MEL”)
(incorporated in Ireland), Monster Energy AU Pty, Ltd. (“MEAU”) (incorporated
in Australia), Monster Energy Brasil
Comércio de Bebidas Ltda (incorporated in Brazil), Monster Energy Canada Ltd.
(incorporated in Canada), Monster Energy Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V
(incorporated in Mexico), ME Management Services, S. de R.L. de C. V.
(incorporated in Mexico), Monster Energy France, SAS (incorporated in France), Blue
Sky Natural Beverage Co. (“Blue Sky”), Hansen Junior Juice Company (“Junior
Juice”),  X-Truck, Inc. (“X-Truck”)
(dissolved in November 2009) and Epicenter Music Festival, LLC (“EMF”).In 2009,HBC conducted
the vast majority of the Company’s operating business and accounted for the
vast majority of the Company’s operating revenues.



We
develop, market, sell and distribute “alternative” beverage category natural
sodas, fruit juices, juice blends, juice drinks, energy drinks and energy
sports drinks, fruit juice smoothies and “functional” drinks, non-carbonated
ready-to-drink iced teas, children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks, Junior Juice®
juices, Junior Juice Water and flavored sparkling beverages under the Hansen’s®
brand name.  We develop, market, sell and
distribute energy drinks under the following brand names: Monster Energy®;
Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTMand Lost® EnergyTMbrand names as well as Rumba®, Samba and Tango
brand energy juices. We market, sell and distribute the Java MonsterTMline of
non-carbonated dairy based coffee + energy drinks. We market, sell and
distribute natural sodas, premium natural sodas with supplements, organic
natural sodas, seltzer waters and energy drinks under the Blue Sky® brand name.
We market, sell and distribute enhanced water beverages under the VidrationTMbrand name.



In 2009 we introduced the
following products:



·Monster Energy® Import energy drink,
which is packaged in 550 ml Ball Re-sealable End (“BRE”) aluminum cans
manufactured in Europe and imported into the United States (May 2009).

·X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer,
a non-carbonated espresso energy drink packaged in 6.75-ounce aluminum cans
manufactured in Europe and imported into the United States (June 2009).

·NitrousTMMonster Energy®, a line of energy drinks which
is carbonated and contains nitrous oxide, and is packaged in re-sealable
12-ounce sleek aluminum cap-cans, in three variants (July 2009).

·Monster Energy® “Dub Edition” energy drink, which is
packaged in 32-ounce aluminum cans (October 2009).

·Hansen’s® Natural Lo-Cal, a new line of all natural,
low calorie 64-ounce juice cocktails in four flavors (September 2009).  The Lo-Cal juice cocktails are sweetened with
TruviaTMbrand stevia extract, an all natural
sweetener.










·SELF Beauty ElixirTMby Hansen’s®, a new line of a low-calorie,
functional, ready-to-drink beauty beverages infused with an essential blend of
vitamins, minerals, natural fruit & botanical extracts with
antioxidants (August 2009).

·Blue Sky® Free Sodas, a new line of all natural, zero
calorie sodas sweetened with TruviaTMbrand stevia extract, an all natural sweetener
(September 2009).

·Peace TeaTM,
a new line of ready-to-drink iced teas in 23-ounce aluminum cans (December 2009).



Our
Monster Energy® brand energy drinks include Monster Energy® energy drinks,
lo-carb Monster Energy® energy drinks, Monster Energy® Assault® energy drinks,
Monster Energy® KhaosTMenergy drinks, Monster Energy® M-80TMenergy drinks
(named “RIPPER” in certain countries), Monster Energy® Heavy MetalTMenergy drinks,
Monster Energy® MIXXDTMenergy drinks, Monster Energy® Import energy
drinks and Monster Energy® Dub Edition energy drinks.



Corporate History





Industry Overview



The “alternative” beverage category combines
non-carbonated ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades, juice cocktails, single
serve juices and fruit beverages, ready-to-drink dairy and coffee drinks,
energy drinks, sports drinks, and single-serve still water (flavored,
unflavored and enhanced) with “new age” beverages, including sodas that are
considered natural, sparkling juices and flavored sparkling beverages.
According to Beverage Marketing Corporation, domestic wholesale sales in 2009
for the “alternative” beverage category of the market are estimated at $29.9
billion representing a decline of approximately 1.0% over the estimated
domestic wholesale sales in 2008 of approximately $30.2 billion (revised from a
previously reported estimate of $26.0 billion).



Reportable
Segments



We
have two reportable segments, namely Direct Store Delivery (“DSD”), whose
principal products comprise primarily energy drinks, and Warehouse (“Warehouse”),
whose principal products comprise primarily juice based and soda beverages. The
DSD segment develops, markets and sells products primarily through an exclusive
distributor network, whereas the Warehouse segment develops, markets and sells
products primarily directly to retailers. 
Corporate and unallocated amounts that do not relate to the DSD or
Warehouse segments specifically have been allocated to “Corporate &
Unallocated.”










Our DSD segment
represented 91.9%, 90.7% and 89.5% of our consolidated net sales for the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Warehouse
segment represented 8.1%, 9.3% and 10.5% of our consolidated net sales for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



For
financial information about our reporting segments and geographic areas, refer
to Note 16 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II,
Item 8 – “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report, incorporated
herein by reference.  For certain risks
with respect to our energy drinks see “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors”
below.



Products – DSD Segment



Monster Energy® Drinks– In 2002, we launched a new carbonated energy drink under the Monster
Energy® brand name in 16-ounce cans, which was almost double the size of our
Hansen’s branded energy drinks (in 8.3-ounce cans) and the vast majority of
competitive energy drinks on the market at that time. Our Monster Energy®
drinks contain different types and levels of supplements than our Hansen’s®
energy drinks and are marketed through our full service distributor network. We
offer the following products under the Monster Energy® brand energy drink
product line: Monster Energy®,lo-carb
Monster Energy®, Monster Energy®Assault®,
Monster Energy®KhaosTM,
Monster Energy® M-80TM(named
“RIPPER” in certain countries), Monster Energy® Heavy MetalTM,
Monster Energy® MIXXDTM, Monster Energy® Import and Monster Energy®
Dub Edition. We package our Monster Energy® drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 12-ounce
and/or 16-ounce and/or 23.5-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml
and/or 550ml aluminum cans and/or 500ml glass bottles.



Java MonsterTMCoffee + Energy Drinks- a line of non-carbonated dairy based
coffee + energy drinks under the Java MonsterTMbrand name. We offer the following products
under the Java MonsterTMproduct line: Java MonsterTMOriginaleTM,
Java MonsterTMLoca
Moca®, Java MonsterTMMean
Bean®, Java MonsterTMRussian, Java MonsterTMIrish BlendTM,
Java MonsterTMChai
HaiTM, Java MonsterTMNut UpTMand Java MonsterTMLo-BallTM.
We package our Java MonsterTMCoffee
+ energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum cans.



NitrousTMMonster Energy®Drinks- In July 2009,
we introduced a new line of carbonated energy drinks containing nitrous oxide.
We offer the following products under the NitrousTMMonster Energy®product
line: Extra Dry, Anti Gravity and Killer B. We package our NitrousTMMonster Energy®
drinks in 12-ounce sleek aluminum cans.



X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer-
In June 2009, we introduced X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer,
a non-carbonated espresso energy drink in 6.75-ounce aluminum cans.



Monster
Hitman Energy ShooterTM- a line of energy shooters in 3-ounce
polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) plastic bottles. We offer the following
products under the Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTMproduct line: Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTM, Monster LOBO Energy ShooterTMand Monster
Sniper Energy ShooterTM.



Lost® EnergyTMDrinks- a carbonated energy drink under the Lost® brand name. The Lost®
brand name is owned by Lost International, LLC and the drinks are produced,
sold and distributed by us under an exclusive license from Lost International,
LLC. We offer the following products under the Lost® EnergyTMbrand energy drink product line: Lost®, Lost®
Perfect 10TM, Lost® Five-OTMand Lost® CadillacTM.  We package our Lost® EnergyTMdrinks in 8.3-ounce and/or
16-ounce and/or 24-ounce aluminum cans.



Energy Juices- - non-carbonated energy juices under the Rumba®, Samba and Tango brand names.  Our energy juices are 100% juice products
that target male and female morning beverages consumers and are positioned as a










substitute for coffee, caffeinated sodas and 100% orange or other juices.  We package our energy juices in 15.5-ounce
aluminum cans.



Vidration® - a zero calorie, vitamin enhanced water line under
the Vidration® brand name in 20-ounce PET bottles. We offer the following
products under the Vidration® brand product line: Defense, Recover, Energy,
Multi – V and Power.



Peace TeaTM- In December 2009, we introduced a new
line of ready-to-drink iced teas in 23-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the
following products under the Peace TeaTMproduct line: green tea, imported Ceylon tea,
sweet lemon tea and razzleberry tea.



Products – Warehouse
Segment



Hansen’s Natural Sodas® -Hansen’s Natural Sodas® have been a leading natural soda brand in
Southern California for the past 30 years. Hansen’s Natural Sodas®, sweetened
with cane sugar, and Hansen’s® Calorie Free Sodas, sweetened with Splenda® and
Acesulfame-K, contain no preservatives, no sodium and no caffeine. We offer the
following sodas under the Hansen’s® brand name:Hansen’s
Natural Sodas®, Hansen’s® Calorie Free Sodas, Hansen’s® Natural Soda Mixers,
Hansen’s® Natural Sparkling Sleek Beverages and Hansen’s® Natural Sparkling
Sleek Sugar Free Beverages. We package our natural sodas in 12-ounce and/or
16-ounce aluminum cans and our sleek beverages in contemporary 10.5-ounce
aluminum cans.



Blue Sky®Products- The Blue Sky® products contain no preservatives,
artificial sweeteners or caffeine (other than the energy drinks) or artificial
coloring and are made with sugar and high quality natural flavors. We offer the
following products under the Blue Sky® product line: Blue Sky® Natural Sodas,
Blue Sky® Premium Sodas, Blue Sky® Organic Natural Sodas, Blue Sky® Seltzer
Water, Blue Sky® Blue Energy® drink, Blue Sky® Café Energy and Blue Sky® Tea
Sodas. In September 2009, we introduced Blue Sky® Free Sodas, a new line
of all natural, zero calorie sodas sweetened with TruviaTMbrand stevia extract, an all natural
sweetener. We package our Blue Sky® Sodas and seltzer waters in 12-ounce
aluminum cans. We package our Blue Sky® Café energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum
cans. We package our Blue Sky® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 16-ounce
aluminum cans.



Hansen’s®Energy Drinks- Our Hansen’s®energy drinks compete in the “functional” beverage category, namely, beverages
that provide a real or perceived benefit in addition to simply delivering
refreshment. Our Hansen’s®energy drinks
contain vitamins, minerals, nutrients, herbs and supplements (collectively, “supplements”).
Since 2006, we have marketed our Hansen’s® brand energy drinks through the Warehouse
segment. We offer the following products under the Hansen’s®energy drink product line: Hansen’s® Energy Pro and Hansen’s®Energy Diet Red.We package
our Hansen’s® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce aluminum cans.



Juice
Products and Smoothies -Our fruit juice product line includes Hansen’s® Natural Apple Juice,
which is packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles and 128-ounce High Density
Polyethylene bottles, and Hansen’s® Natural Grape Juice, White Grape Juice,
Pineapple Juice, Apple Grape Juice, Apple Strawberry Juice, Orange Juice,
Cranberry-Apple Juice, Ruby Red Grapefruit Juice, Pomegranate Juice Cocktail,
Organic Apple White Grape Juice, Organic Apple Wild Berry Juice and Organic
Apple Juice, which are packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles. These Hansen’s®
juice products contain 100% juice as well as 120% of the United States
Recommended Daily Allowances (the “USRDA”) for Vitamin C (except Pomegranate
which contains 27% juice and 100% of the USRDA for Vitamin C). In 2009, we
introduced Hansen’s® Natural Lo-Cal juice cocktails, a new line of all natural,
low calorie 64-ounce juice cocktails in four flavors. The Lo-Cal juice
cocktails are sweetened with TruviaTMbrand stevia extract, an all natural
sweetener. Hansen’s® juice products compete in the shelf-stable juice category.










Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies contain approximately 25% juice and
provide 100% of the recommended daily intake for adults of Vitamins A, C &
E and represented Hansen’s® entry into what is commonly referred to as the “functional”
beverage category. Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies are packaged in 11.5-ounce
aluminum cans.



We market the above-mentioned juice and smoothie products to our direct
retail customers.



Hansen’s® Iced Teas -a line of iced teas in sleek 16-ounce
wide mouth PET plastic bottles. We offer varieties sweetened with cane sugar as
well as sugar free and unsweetened varieties. 
Each bottle of tea contains 75
mg of Epigallocatechin Gallate (EGCG), a natural and powerful antioxidant.



Juices for Children -Our Juice Blast® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks is a
dual-branded 100% juice line which was launched in conjunction with Costco
Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”) and is sold through Costco stores. Our Juice
SlamTMline
of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks is a 100% juice line which we market
to grocery store chain customers, the health food trade, and other customers.
Both Juice Blast® and Juice SlamTMlines of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks
contain eleven essential vitamins and six essential minerals. Both the Juice
Blast® and Juice SlamTMlines
are marketed in 6.75-ounce aseptic boxes.



In 2001, we acquired the Junior Juice® beverage business.  Hansen’s® Junior Juice® product line is a
100% juice line offered in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages and is targeted at
toddlers and preschoolers. Most flavors in the Junior Juice® line have calcium
added and all flavors contain 100% of the daily recommended allowance of
Vitamin C. We extended the Junior Juice® line by adding organic juice products
in 4.23-ounce aseptic boxes. Each of our organic Junior Juice® products have
100% juice and contain 100% of the daily recommended allowance of Vitamin C.



Hansen’s® Organic Junior WaterTM-Our Hansen’s® Organic Junior WaterTMline in
4.23-ounce aseptic packages was created specially for children ages two to six
years old. Our Hansen’s® Organic Junior WaterTMline of flavored waters contains 100% of the
daily recommended allowance of Vitamin C per serving, no preservatives, no
artificial colors, no artificial flavors, no artificial sweeteners, no high
fructose corn syrup and contains only thirty calories per serving.



SELF Beauty ElixirTMby Hansen’s® -In August 2009, we introduced our SELF
Beauty ElixirTMline,
a low-calorie, functional, ready-to-drink beauty beverage infused with an
essential blend of vitamins, minerals, natural fruit & botanical
extracts with antioxidants. SELF Beauty ElixirTMby Hansen’s® 
contains 30% fruit juice, all natural flavors, and many antioxidant rich
vitamins such as 500% Vitamin E, 150% Vitamin C, and 100% Vitamin A of the
respective daily recommended allowances per serving. In addition to having only
35 calories per can, the product is very low in sodium, gluten-free,
preservative-free and contains no artificial colors.  SELF Beauty ElixirTMby Hansen’s® is packaged in 8-ounce slim
aluminum cans.



Bottled Water -Our
still water product was introduced in 1993 and is now sold in 0.5-liter plastic
bottles, primarily to the food service trade. Sales of this product line are
very limited.



During
2009, we continued to expand our existing product lines and further develop our
distribution markets.  In particular, we
continued to focus on developing and marketing beverages that fall within the
category generally described as the “alternative” beverage category, with
particular emphasis on energy type drinks.










Other
Products



We
continue to evaluate and, where considered appropriate, introduce additional
flavors and types of beverages to complement our existing product lines. We
will also evaluate, and may, where considered appropriate, introduce “functional”
foods/snack foods that utilize similar channels of distribution and/or are
complementary to our existing products and/or to which our brand names are able
to add value.



We also develop and supply, on a limited basis, selected beverages in
different formats to a limited number of customers with the objective of
solidifying and/or enhancing our relationship with those customers.



Manufacture and Distribution



We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource the
manufacturing process to third party bottlers and contract packers.



We purchase concentrates, juices, flavors, supplements, cans, bottles,
aseptic boxes, aseptic pouches, caps, labels, trays, boxes and other
ingredients for our beverage products from our suppliers, which are delivered
to our various third party bottlers and co-packers. Depending on the product,
the third party bottlers or packers add filtered water and/or other ingredients
and supplements for the manufacture and packaging of the finished products into
Company-approved containers in accordance with our formulas. In the case of
sodas and other carbonated beverages, the bottler/packer adds carbonation to
the products as part of the production process.



Co-Packing Arrangements



We are generally responsible for arranging for the purchase of and
delivery to our third party bottlers and co-packers of the containers in which
our beverage products are packaged.



All of our beverage products are manufactured by various third party
bottlers and co-packers situated throughout the United States and abroad, under
separate arrangements with each party. The majority of our co-packaging
arrangements are on a month-to-month basis. 
However, certain of our co-packing arrangements are described below:



(a)Our agreement with Gluek Brewing Company
(“Gluek”) pursuant to which Gluek packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract
continues until May 2010 and is automatically extended for additional
terms of one (1) year each, unless either party notifies the other in
writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the last day of the
then current term.



(b)Our agreement withCarolina
Beer & Beverage(“Carolina”)
pursuant to which Carolina packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract
continues until April 2010 and is automatically extended for additional
periods of one (1) year each, unless either party notifies the other in
writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the last day of the
then current term.



(c)Our agreement with Safeway, Inc. (“Safeway”)
pursuant to which Safeway packages certain of our energy drinks and Hansen’s
Natural Sodas®. This contract continues until March 2010 and is
automatically renewed annually thereafter, unless terminated by either party
upon six (6) months written notice.



(d)Our agreement with Nor-Cal Beverage Co.,
Inc. (“Nor-Cal”) pursuant to which Nor-Cal packages certain of our Hansen’s
juices in PET plastic bottles. This contract continues until August 2010










and is automatically renewed for one (1) year
terms thereafter unless terminated by either party not less than ninety (90)
days before the end of the initial term or any renewal period.



(e)Our agreement with Dairy Farmers of
America, Inc. (“DFA”) pursuant to which DFA packages certain of our energy
drinks. This contract continues until March 2010 and is automatically
renewed for consecutive one (1) year periods, subject to mutually
agreeable pricing, unless either party provides notice of cancellation at least
ninety (90) days prior to the end of the initial term or subsequent extension
period. Further, either party may terminate this agreement at its sole
discretion at any time by providing the other party with one hundred eighty
(180) days prior written notification specifying the date of termination.



(f)Our agreement with the American Bottling
Co. (“American”) pursuant to which American packages certain of our energy
drinks. This contract continues until March 2010 and is automatically
renewed for additional terms of one (1) year, unless terminated by either
party at least ninety (90) days prior to the last day of the then current term.



(g)Our agreement with Giumarra &
Associates Beverage Company (“Giumarra”) pursuant to which Giumarra packages
certain of our energy drinks and juices. 
This contract continues until June 2010 and is automatically extended
for additional periods of one (1) year, unless either party notifies the
other in writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the last day
of the then current term.



(h)Our agreement with Pri-Pak, Inc. (“Pri-Pak”)
pursuant to which Pri-Pak packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract
continues indefinitely but may be terminated at any time by either party by
giving ninety (90) days prior written notice.



(i)Our agreement with O-AT-KA Milk Products
Cooperative (“O-AT-KA”) pursuant to which O-AT-KA packages certain of our
energy drinks. This contract continues until September 2010 and is
automatically renewable for consecutive one (1) year periods, subject to
mutually agreeable pricing, unless either party provides notice of cancellation
at least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the initial term or subsequent
extension period.



In certain instances, equipment is purchased by us and
installed at the facilities of our co-packers to enable them to produce certain
of our products. In general, such equipment remains our property and is either
returned to us upon termination of the packing arrangements with such
co-packers or is amortized over a pre-determined number of cases that are to be
produced at the facilities concerned.



We pack certain products outside of the West Coast region to enable us
to produce products closer to the markets where they are sold and thereby
reduce freight costs. As distribution volumes increase in both our domestic and
international markets, we continue to secure additional packing arrangements
closer to such markets to further reduce freight costs.



Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise,
particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid
growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for
our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials
including, but not limited to PET/plastic bottles, aseptic boxes, cans, glass,
labels, flavors, juice concentrates, or supplement ingredients or certain
sweeteners, or packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on
a short-term basis.(See “Part I,
Item 1A – Risk Factors”).



Although our production arrangements are generally of short duration or
are terminable upon our request, we believe a short disruption or delay would
not significantly affect our revenues because alternative packing facilities in
the United States with adequate capacity can usually be obtained for many of
our products at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short
time period.










However, there are limited packing facilities in the
United States, Canada, Australia, Brazil, the United Kingdom and Europe with
adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for certain of our products,
including Monster Energy®, NitrousTMMonster Energy®, X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer and Lost® EnergyTMenergy drinks, Rumba®, Samba and Tango energy juice
drinks, our Java MonsterTMproduct line and our aseptic juice products. A
disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly
affect our revenues from such products as alternative co-packing facilities in
the United States, Canada, Australia, Brazil, the United Kingdom or Europe, as
the case may be, with adequate capacity may not be available for such products
either at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time
period, if at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products
could affect our revenues. We continue to seek alternative and/or additional
co-packing facilities in the United States, Canada, Australia, Brazil, the
United Kingdom and Europe with adequate capacity for the production of our
various products to minimize the risk of a disruption in production.



Distribution
Agreements



Certain of our
distribution agreements are described below:



(a)During the second quarter of 2006, we
entered into the Monster Beverages Off-Premise Distribution Coordination
Agreement and the Allied Products Distribution Coordination Agreement (jointly,
the “Off-Premise Agreements”) with Anheuser-Busch, Inc., a Missouri
corporation (“AB”). Under the Off-Premise Agreements, select Anheuser-Busch
distributors (the “AB Distributors”) distribute and sell, in markets designated
by us, our Monster Energy® and Lost® EnergyTMbrands non-alcoholic energy drinks and Rumba®,
Samba and Tango brand energy juices, as well as additional products that may be
agreed between the parties.



(b)During the first quarter of 2007, we
entered into the On-Premise Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “On-Premise
Agreement”) with AB. Under the On-Premise Agreement, AB manages and coordinates
the sale, distribution and merchandising of Monster Energy® energy drinks to
on-premise retailers including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in territories
approved by us.



(c)During the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into the Monster Energy Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC
North American Coordination Agreement”) with The Coca-Cola Company (“TCCC”).
Pursuant to the TCCC North American Coordination Agreement, we have designated,
and in the future may designate, territories in which bottlers from TCCC’s
network of partially owned and independent bottlers, including Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc.
(“CCE”), Coca-Cola Bottling Company (“CCBC”), CCBCC Operations, LLC (“Consolidated”),
United Bottling Contracts Company, LLC (“United”), and other TCCC independent
bottlers (collectively, the “TCCC North American Bottlers”) will distribute and
sell primarily our Monster Energy® beverages (the “Products”) in the United
States and Canada.



(d)During the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into the Monster Energy Distribution Agreement with CCE pursuant to
which CCE was appointed to distribute, directly and through certain
sub-distributors, the Products in portions of twenty-four U.S. states (the “U.S.
Territories”). We may designate additional territories within reasonable
proximity to the U.S. Territories and CCE will use reasonable good faith
efforts to add the additional territories. During the fourth quarter of 2008,
we entered into the Monster Energy Canadian Distribution Agreement with CCBC,
pursuant to which CCBC has been appointed to distribute, directly and through
certain sub-distributors, the Products in Canada, with performance commencing
on January 1, 2009. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into distribution agreements with Consolidated, United and other TCCC
North American Bottlers for the distribution of the Products in various
territories within the United States.










(e)During the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into the Monster Energy International Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC
International Coordination Agreement”) with TCCC. Pursuant to the TCCC
International Coordination Agreement, we have designated, and in the future may
designate, countries in which we wish to appoint TCCC distributors to
distribute and sell the Products.



(f)During the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into the Monster Energy International Distribution Agreement and the
Monster Energy Belgium Distribution Agreement with CCE pursuant to which CCE
has been appointed to distribute directly, and through certain sub-distributors,
the Products in Great Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and
Monaco.



(g)During the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into a distribution agreement with Comercializadora Eloro, S.A., a
subsidiary of Grupo Jumex, for exclusive distribution throughout Mexico,
excluding the Baja and Sonora regions, of our Monster Energy® and Monster
Energy® KhaosTMenergy drinks as well as select Java MonsterTMproduct line
drinks. Distribution under this agreement commenced January 26, 2009.



(h)During the second quarter of 2009, we
entered into a distribution agreement with Schweppes Australia Pty Ltd. for
exclusive distribution throughout Australia of certain of our Monster Energy®
energy drinks. Distribution under this agreement commenced in July 2009.



(i)During the second quarter of 2006, we
entered into a distribution agreement with Cadbury Bebidas, S.A. de C.V. (“Cadbury
Bebidas”), for exclusive distribution by Cadbury Bebidas throughout Mexico,
excluding Baja California, of our Monster Energy® and Lost® EnergyTMenergy
products. In December 2008, this distributor was notified of the
termination of its distribution agreement on January 25, 2009.



Distribution levels vary by product and geographic location. Gross
sales outside the United States accounted for $168.0 million, $94.2 million and
$53.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. The reclassification of a portion of our gross sales to certain
military customers to gross sales to customers within the United States from
gross sales to customers outside the United States resulted in a decrease in
gross sales outside the United States of $2.1 million and $1.8 million for the
years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, over amounts
previously reported.



We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering
into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery
distributors with established sales, marketing and distribution organizations.
Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture
and/or distribute other soda and non-carbonated brands and other beverage
products. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.



During 2009, we continued to expand distribution of our products in both
the domestic and international markets, and our Monster Energy® drinks are now
sold in more than 40 countries around the world. We expanded our sales force to
support and grow sales, primarily of our Monster Energy® drinks, our Java
MonsterTMproduct line, our Monster Hitman Energy
ShooterTM’s, our NitrousTMMonster Energy®
product line and our X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer
energy drink.



Our Blue Sky® products are sold primarily to the health food trade,
natural food chains and mainstream grocery store chains, through specialty
health food distributors.










Raw Materials and
Suppliers



The
principal raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products are aluminum
cans, PET plastic bottles as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk
and cream, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. Overall, the prices
of aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, certain juice concentrates and milk and
cream decreased in 2009 as compared to 2008. In particular, prices of apple
concentrate decreased significantly. We have secured a major part of our 2010
supply of apple concentrate at prices below the overall prices incurred in
2009. Sugar prices were higher in 2009.



We purchase beverage flavors, concentrates, juices, supplements, cane
sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as well as other ingredients
from independent suppliers located in the United States and abroad.



Generally, raw materials utilized by us in our business are readily
available from numerous sources. However, certain raw materials are
manufactured by only one company.  We
purchase sucralose, which is used alone or in combination with Acesulfame-K in
our low-calorie products, flavors, vitamin blends and herbs from single
manufacturers. Additionally, certain of our cans are only manufactured by
single companies in the United States.



With regard to our Java MonsterTMproduct line, the dairy industry is subject to
shortages and higher demand from time to time, which may result in higher prices.



With regard to our fruit juice and juice-drink products, the industry
is subject to variability of weather conditions, which may result in higher
prices and/or lower consumer demand for juices.



Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their
flavors.  Consequently, we do not have
the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our
concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain these
flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. We have
identified alternative suppliers of many of the supplements contained in many
of our beverages. However, industry-wide shortages of certain fruits and fruit
juices, and supplements and sweeteners have been, and could from time to time
in the future be, experienced, which could interfere with and/or delay
production of certain of our products.



We continually endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for
certain of our flavors and concentrates as well as to negotiate arrangements
with suppliers which would enable us to obtain access to certain concentrates
or flavor formulas in certain circumstances. We have been partially successful
in these endeavors. Additionally, in a limited number of cases, contractual
restrictions and/or the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals and licenses
may limit our ability to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers and
manufacturers and/or distributors.



In connection with the development of new products and flavors,
independent suppliers bear a large portion of the expense of product
development, thereby enabling us to develop new products and flavors at a relatively
low cost. We have historically developed and successfully introduced new
products, flavors and packaging for our products and intend to continue
developing and introducing additional new beverages and flavors.



Competition



The
beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are
pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and marketing
campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a
relatively large number of companies, many of which have substantially greater
financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.










Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include
taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and
effective development and marketing of new, unique cutting edge products,
attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. We
also compete for distributors who will focus on the sale of our products ahead
of those of our competitors, provide stable and reliable distribution and
secure adequate shelf space in retail outlets. Competitive pressures in the “alternative”,
energy, coffee and “functional” beverage categories could cause our products to
be unable to gain or to lose market share or we could experience price erosion,
which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results.



We have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the
energy drink and energy shot categories. A number of companies who market and
distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in larger volume packages, such as 16-
and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Snapple, Arizona and
Fuse, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their
products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional”
benefits. We believe that many of those products contain lower levels of
supplements and principally deliver refreshment. In addition, many competitive
products are positioned differently from our energy or “functional” drinks. Our
smoothies and tea lines are positioned more closely against those products.



We compete not only for consumer preference, but also for maximum
marketing efforts by multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors,
many of which have a principal affiliation with competing companies and brands.
Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and with products of much
larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of
numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Inc.
(“PepsiCo”), The Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the “DPS Group”),
Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods, Inc., Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and
Ocean Spray. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local
in operation. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those
carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.



Our natural sodas compete directly with traditional soda products
including those marketed by TCCC, PepsiCo and the DPS Group, as well as with
carbonated beverages marketed by smaller or primarily local companies such as
Jones Soda Co., Clearly Canadian Beverage Company, Crystal Geyser, J.M. Smucker
Company and with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store
chains, convenience store chains and club stores.



Our fruit juice smoothies compete directly with Kern’s, Jumex, Jugos
del Valle and Libby’s Nectars, and V8 Smoothies, as well as with single serve
juice products produced by many competitors. 
Such competitive products are packaged in glass and PET bottles ranging
from 8- to 48-ounces in size and in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans. The juice content
of such competitive products ranges from 1% to 100%.



Our apple and other juice products compete directly
with Tree Top, Mott’s, Martinelli’s, Welch’s, Ocean Spray, Tropicana, Minute
Maid, Langers, Apple and Eve, Seneca, Northland, Juicy Juice and also with
other brands of apple juice and juice blends, especially store brands.



Our energy drinks, including Hansen’s® energy, Diet
Red Energy®, Monster Energy®, NitrousTMMonster Energy®, Lost® EnergyTMand Rumba®, Samba and Tango
energy juice in 8.3-ounce and/or 15.5-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 24-ounce
and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml and/or 550ml aluminum cans and/or 500ml glass
bottles, and our Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTM’s,
compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp,
Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, Vitaminenergy,
5-Hour Energy Shot, Stacker 2, Red Bull Energy Shot, Redline Energy Shot, NOS
Energy Shot, Rockstar Energy Shot, Full Throttle Quick Shot, Amp Energy Shot
and many other brands. TCCC and PepsiCo also market and/or distribute
additional products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew,
Mountain Dew MDX and Vault.










Our Java MonsterTMproduct line and our X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer energy drink compete directly with Starbucks Frappuccino,
Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other
Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Caribou Coffee, Cinnabon coffee
drinks, Godiva dairy based drinks and Full Throttle Coffee.



Our Peace TeaTMproduct line competes directly with Arizona,
Lipton, Snapple, Nestea, Xing Tea and other tea brands.



Sales and Marketing





We believe that one of the keys to success in the
beverage industry is differentiation, which entails making our products
visually distinctive from other beverages on the shelves of retailers. We
review our products and packaging on an ongoing basis and, where practical,
endeavor to make them better and unique. The labels and graphics for many of
our products are redesigned from time to time to maximize their visibility and
identification, wherever they may be placed in stores, and we will continue to
reevaluate the same from time to time.



Where appropriate, we partner with retailers to assist our marketing
efforts. For example, while we retain responsibility for the marketing of the
Juice Slam® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks, Costco has
undertaken partial responsibility for the marketing of the Juice Blast® line.



We increased expenditures for our sales and marketing programs by
approximately 7.1% in 2009 compared to 2008. As of December 31, 2009, we
employed 1,141 employees in sales and marketing activities, of which 428 were
employed on a full-time basis.



Customers



Our
customers are primarily full service beverage distributors, retail grocery and
specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, drug chains, mass merchandisers,
convenience chains, health food distributors and food service customers. Gross
sales to our various customer types for the years ended










December 2009, 2008
and 2007 are reflected below. Such information reflects sales made by us
directly to the customer types concerned, which include our full service
beverage distributors. Such full service beverage distributors in turn sell
certain of our products to the customer types listed below. We do not have
complete details of the sales of our products by our full service distributors
to their respective customers and therefore limit our description of our
customer types to include our sales to such full service distributors without
reference to their sales to their own customers. The allocations below reflect
changes made by us to the categories historically reported.



200920082007Full service distributors66%68%69%Club stores, drug chains & mass
  merchandisers12%14%14%Outside the U.S.13%8%5%Retail grocery, specialty chains and wholesalers6%8%9%Other3%2%3%



Our customers include CCE, CCBC, Consolidated, United and other TCCC
North American Bottlers, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), AB
Distributors, Kalil Bottling Group, Trader Joe’s, John Lenore &
Company, Pepsi Canada, ULC (“Pepsi Canada”) (terminated by us effective December 31,
2008), Swire Coca-Cola, Costco, The Kroger Co., Safeway, Inc. andSUPERVALU, Inc.A decision by any large customer to decrease amounts
purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material
negative effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of
operations. CCE, a customer of the DSD segment with sales within specific
markets in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and certain countries
in Europe, accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales for the year ended December 13,
2009. The DPS Group, a former customer of the DSD division, accounted for
approximately 13% and 16% of our net sales for the years ended December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. Our distribution agreement with the DPS Group was
terminated by us effective November 9, 2008. The terminated DPS Group
territories are now serviced by a combination of TCCC North American Bottlers
and AB Distributors. Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), a customer of
both the DSD and Warehouse divisions, accounted for approximately 9%, 11% and
12% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.



Seasonality



Sales of ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat
seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for the
highest sales volumes. The volume of sales in the beverage business may be
affected by weather conditions. Sales of our beverage products may become
increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations as more sales occur outside of
California with respect to our products. However, the energy drink category
appears to be less seasonal than traditional beverages. As the percentage of
our sales that are represented by such products continues to increase, seasonal
fluctuations will be further mitigated. Quarterly fluctuations may also be
affected by other factors, including the introduction of new products, the
opening of new markets where temperature fluctuations are more pronounced, the
addition of new bottlers and distributors, changes in the mix of sales of our
finished products and changes in and/or increased advertising, marketing and
promotional expenses.



Intellectual Property



We
presently have approximately 750 registered trademarks and pending applications
in various countries worldwide, and we apply for new trademarks on an ongoing
basis.  Substantially all of our global
trademarks are owned by HBC.  We regard
our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and
similar intellectual property as very important to our business.  We consider Hansen’s Natural Sodas®, Hansen’s®,
Blue Sky®, Junior Juice®, Monster®, Monster Energy®, M Monster Energy®, M
(stylized)®, Java MonsterTMand Unleash the Beast!® to be our core
trademarks.










We
protect our trademarks by applying for registrations and registering our
trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with
government agencies in other countries around the world, particularly where our
products are distributed and sold.  We
also register copyrights in the statements, graphics and content appearing on
the packaging of our products.



Depending
upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or
their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to
have become generic.  Registrations of
trademarks can generally be renewed as long as the trademarks are in use.



We
enforce and protect our trademark rights against third parties infringing or
denigrating our trademarks, opposing registration of infringing trademarks, and
initiating litigation as necessary.



Government Regulation



The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of
our products are subject to various federal and state regulations, including
but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary
Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health
Act; various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local
statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale,
safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the
United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products
are also subject to numerous similar and other statutes and regulations.



California law requires that a specific warning appear on any product
that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been
found to cause cancer or birth defects. The law exposes all food and beverage
producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products
because the law recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds
below which a warning is not required. Consequently, even trace amounts of
listed components can expose affected products to the prospect of warning
labels. Products containing listed substances that occur naturally in the
product or that are contributed to the product solely by a municipal water
supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. While none of our
beverage products are required to display warnings under this law, we cannot
predict whether an important component of any of our products might be added to
the California list in the future. We also are unable to predict whether, or to
what extent, a warning under this law would have an impact on costs or sales of
our products.



Measures have been enacted in various localities and states that
require that a deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage
containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other
deposit, recycling or product stewardship proposals have been introduced in
certain states and localities and in Congress, and we anticipate that similar
legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at the local, state
and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere.



Compliance with Environmental
Laws



Our facilities in the United
States are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and
regulations. Compliance with these provisions has not had, nor do we expect
such compliance to have, any material adverse effect upon our capital
expenditures, net income or competitive position.



In California, we are required to collect redemption
values from our customers and to remit such redemption values to the State of
California Department of Conservation based upon the number of cans and bottles
of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold. In certain other states
and Canada where Hansen’s® products are sold, we are also required to collect
deposits from our customers and to remit such deposits to the respective state
agencies based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and
non-carbonated products sold in such states.








EmployeesAs of December 31, 2009, we employed a total of
1,430 employees of which 710 were employed on a full-time basis. Of our 1,430
employees, we employed 289 in administrative and operational capacities and
1,141 persons in sales and marketing capacities.Available InformationAs a
public company, we are required to file our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy
statements on Schedule 14A and other information (including any amendments)
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  You may read and copy such material at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington,
D.C. 20549.  You may obtain information
on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.  You can also find the
Company’s SEC filings at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.Our Internet address
iswww.hansens.com. 
Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report
on Form 10-K. Our SEC filings (including any amendments) will be made
available free of charge onwww.hansens.com, as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to,
the SEC. In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding
exhibits) at no cost by writing or telephoning us at the following address or
telephone number:Hansen Natural Corporation550 Monica Circle, Suite 201Corona, CA 92880(951) 739-6200(800) HANSENS(800) 426-736717





