ITEM 1.          BUSINESS



Overview



Hansen Natural Corporation was incorporated in Delaware on April 25, 1990. Our principal place of business is located at 550 Monica Circle, Suite 201, Corona, California 92880 and our telephone number is (951) 739-6200. When this report uses the words “Hansen”, “HBC” “the Company”, “we”, “us”, and “our”, these words refer to Hansen Natural Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. We are a holding company and conduct no operating business except through our consolidated subsidiaries.



We develop, market, sell and distribute “alternative” beverage category beverages, primarily under the following brand names: Monster Energy®, Java Monster™, Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™, Monster Rehab™ (being introduced in the first quarter of 2011), Peace Tea™, Hansen’s®, Hansen’s Natural Sodas®, Junior Juice®, Blue Sky®, X-Presso Monster™, Vidration™, Worx Energy™, Admiral™, Lost® Energy™, Hubert’s™, Rumba®, Samba and Tango.



Our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks include Monster Energy® energy drinks, lo-carb Monster Energy® energy drinks, Monster Energy® Assault® energy drinks, Monster Energy® Khaos™ energy drinks, Monster Energy® M-80™ energy drinks (named “RIPPER” in certain countries), Monster Energy® Heavy Metal™ energy drinks, Monster Energy® MIXXD™ energy drinks, Monster Energy® Absolutely Zero energy drinks, Monster Energy® Import and Import Light energy drinks, Monster Energy® Dub Edition energy drinks, Monster Rehab™ energy drinks, Monster Energy® M3 Super Concentrate energy drink and Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™ energy drinks in four variants.



Our lines of non-carbonated dairy based coffee + energy drinks include Java Monster™ Kona Blend, Java Monster™ Loca Moca®, Java Monster™ Mean Bean®, Java Monster™ Vanilla Light, Java Monster™ Irish Blend™, Java Monster™ Toffee as well as our X-Presso Monster™ Hammer and X-Presso Monster™ Midnite coffee energy drinks.



Industry Overview



The “alternative” beverage category combines non-carbonated ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades, juice cocktails, single-serve juices and fruit beverages, ready-to-drink dairy and coffee drinks, energy drinks, sports drinks, and single-serve still water (flavored, unflavored and enhanced) with “new age” beverages, including sodas that are considered natural, sparkling juices and flavored sparkling beverages. According to Beverage Marketing Corporation, domestic wholesale sales in 2010 for the “alternative” beverage category of the market are estimated at $27.3 billion representing an increase of approximately 3.9% over the estimated domestic wholesale sales in 2009 of approximately $26.3 billion (revised from a previously reported estimate of $29.9 billion).



Corporate History



In the 1930s, Hubert Hansen and his sons started a business to sell fresh non-pasteurized juices in Los Angeles, California. This business eventually became Hansen’s Juices, Inc., which subsequently became known as The Fresh Juice Company of California, Inc. (“FJC”).  FJC retained the right to market and sell fresh non-pasteurized juices under the Hansen trademark. In 1977, Tim Hansen, one of the grandsons of Hubert Hansen, perceived a demand for shelf stable pasteurized natural juices and juice blends and formed Hansen Foods, Inc. (“HFI”). HFI expanded its product line from juices to include Hansen’s Natural Sodas®. The California Co-Packers Corporation (d/b/a Hansen Beverage Company)










(“CCC”) acquired certain assets of HFI, including the right to market the Hansen’s® brand name, in 1990. In 1992, HBC acquired the Hansen’s® brand natural soda and apple juice business from CCC. Under our ownership, the Hansen beverage business has significantly expanded and includes a wide range of beverages within the growing “alternative” beverage category, including in particular, energy drinks. In 1999, we acquired all of FJC’s rights to manufacture, sell and distribute fresh non-pasteurized juice products under the Hansen’s® trademark together with certain additional rights. In 2000, HBC, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Blue Sky, acquired the natural soda business previously conducted by Blue Sky Natural Beverage Co., a New Mexico corporation, under the Blue Sky® trademark. In 2001, HBC, through its wholly-owned subsidiary 
Junior Juice, acquired the Junior Juice business previously conducted by Pasco Juices, Inc. under the Junior Juice® trademark.



Reportable Segments



We have two reportable segments, namely Direct Store Delivery (“DSD”), whose principal products comprise primarily energy drinks, and Warehouse (“Warehouse”), whose principal products comprise primarily juice based and soda beverages. The DSD segment develops, markets and sells products primarily through an exclusive distributor network, whereas the Warehouse segment develops, markets and sells products primarily directly to retailers. Corporate and unallocated amounts that do not relate to the DSD or Warehouse segments specifically have been allocated to “Corporate and Unallocated.” Our DSD segment represented 93.0%, 91.4% and 89.7% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our Warehouse segment represented 7.0%, 8.6% and 10.3% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended December
 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



For financial information about our reporting segments and geographic areas, refer to Note 17 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 – “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report, incorporated herein by reference.  For certain risks with respect to our energy drinks see “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors” below.



2010 Product Introductions



During 2010, we continued to expand our existing product lines and flavors and further develop our distribution markets.  In particular, we continued to focus on developing and marketing beverages that fall within the category generally described as the “alternative” beverage category, with particular emphasis on energy type drinks. During 2010, we introduced the following products:



·Monster Energy®   Import Light energy drinks, which are packaged in 18.6-ounce Re-sealable End   (“BRE”) aluminum cans (May 2010).·Monster Energy®   Absolutely Zero energy drinks, which are carbonated and contain zero calories   and zero sugar, and are packaged in 16-ounce aluminum cans (July 2010).·Monster Energy®   “Dub Edition” energy drinks, which are packaged in 18.6-ounce BRE aluminum   cans (May 2010).·Monster Energy®   Extra Strength Nitrous Technology energy drink – Black Ice which is   carbonated and contains zero calories, packaged in 12-ounce sleek aluminum   cap-cans (November 2010).·X-Presso   Monster™ Coffee Energy Drinks – non-carbonated dairy based espresso + energy   drinks, which are packaged in 9.6-ounce aluminum cans (November 2010).·Worx Energy™energy shots, which contains zero calories and zero   sugar, and are packaged in 2-ounce wide-mouth polyethylene terephthalate   (“PET”) plastic bottles (October 2010).·Monster Energy®   M3 Super Concentrate, super-concentrated energy drinks, which are packaged in   5-ounce glass bottles (November 2010).·Admiral™ Iced   Teas, a new line of ready-to-drink iced teas, which are packaged in 23-ounce   aluminum cans (March 2010).










·Blue Sky® Shots,   natural functional shots, which are packaged in 2.5-ounce PET plastic bottles   (March 2010).·Hubert’s™   Lemonades, a line of ready-to-drink premium lemonades sweetened with cane   sugar and Truvia™ brand stevia extract, an all natural sweetener, which are   packaged in 16-ounce glass bottles (August 2010).·Hansen’s®   Natural Fruit and Tea Stix™, a line of all-natural, low-calorie powdered   drink mixes, which are packaged in single-serve stick packs   (February 2010).



Products – DSD Segment



Monster Energy® Drinks– In 2002, we launched a new carbonated energy drink under the Monster Energy® brand name in 16-ounce cans, which was almost double the size of our original Hansen’s® brand energy drinks (in 8.3-ounce cans) and the vast majority of competitive energy drinks on the market at that time. Our Monster Energy® drinks contain different types and levels of supplements than our Hansen’s® energy drinks and are marketed through our full service distributor network. We offer the following products under the Monster Energy® brand energy drink product line: Monster Energy®,lo-carb Monster Energy®, Monster Energy®Assault®, Monster Energy®Khaos™, Monster Energy® M-80™ (named “RIPPER
48; in certain countries), Monster Energy® Heavy Metal™, Monster Energy® MIXXD™, Monster Energy® Absolutely Zero, Monster Energy® Import and Import Light, Monster Energy® Dub Edition,  Monster Rehab™ and Monster Energy® M3 Super Concentrate. We package our Monster Energy® drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 12-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 23.5-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml and/or 18.6-ounce aluminum cans and/or 5-ounce and/or 500ml glass bottles.



Java Monster™ Coffee + Energy Drinks- a line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee + energy drinks. We offer the following products under the Java Monster™ product line: Java Monster™ Kona Blend, Java Monster™ Loca Moca®, Java Monster™ Mean Bean®, Java Monster™ Vanilla Light, Java Monster™ Irish Blend™ and Java Monster™ Toffee. We package our Java Monster™ coffee + energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum cans.



Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™ Energy Drinks- a line of carbonated energy drinks containing nitrous oxide. We offer the following products under the Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™product line: Super Dry, Anti Gravity, Killer-B and Black Ice. We package our Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™drinks in 12-ounce sleek aluminum cap-cans.



X-Presso Monster™ Coffee Energy Drinks– a line of non-carbonated dairy based espresso + energy drinks in 6.75-ounce and/or 9.6-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the following products under the X-Presso Monster™coffee energy drinks product line: Hammer and Midnite.



Worx Energy™ Energy Shots– In October 2010, we introduced Worx Energy™ energy shots, an energy supplement which contains zero calories and zero sugar in 2-ounce wide-mouth PET plastic bottles. We offer the following products under the Worx Energy™Supplement product line: Original Formula and Extra Strength.



Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™- a line of energy shooters in 3-ounce PET plastic bottles. We offer the following products under the Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™ product line: Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™, Monster LOBO Energy Shooter™ and Monster Sniper Energy Shooter™.  We are in the process of discontinuing this product line.



Peace Tea™- a line of ready-to-drink iced teas in 23-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the following products under the Peace Tea™ product line: green tea, diet green tea, imported Ceylon tea, sweet lemon tea, razzleberry tea, unsweetened tea and “Caddy Shack” tea + lemonade (being introduced in the first quarter of 2011).










Products – Warehouse Segment



Hansen’s Natural Sodas® -Hansen’s Natural Sodas® have been a leading natural soda brand in Southern California for more than 30 years. Hansen’s Natural Sodas®, sweetened with cane sugar, and Hansen’s® Diet Sodas, sweetened with Splenda® and Acesulfame-K, contain no preservatives, no sodium, no caffeine and no artificial coloring. We offer the following sodas under the Hansen’s® brand name:Hansen’s Natural Sodas®, Hansen’s® Diet Sodas in a variety of flavors and Hansen’s® Natural Mixers. We package our natural sodas in 12-ounce and/or 16-ounce aluminum cans.



Blue Sky®Products- Our Blue Sky® products contain no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, caffeine (other than the energy drinks) or artificial coloring and are made with sugar and high quality natural flavors. We offer the following products under the Blue Sky® product line: Blue Sky® Natural Sodas, Blue Sky® Free Sodas, Blue Sky® Premium Sodas, Blue Sky® Organic Natural Sodas, Blue Sky® Seltzer Water, Blue Sky® Blue Energy® drink and Blue Sky® Café Energy. In March 2010, we launched Blue Sky® Shots, natural functional shots, which are packaged in 2.5-ounce PET plastic bottles. In September 2010, we introduced a Blue Sky® Free Blue Energy® drink, a new natural, zero calorie energy drink sweetened with Truvia&#
153; brand stevia extract, an all natural sweetener. We package our Blue Sky® Sodas and seltzer waters in 12-ounce aluminum cans. We package our Blue Sky® Café energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum cans. We package our Blue Sky® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 16-ounce aluminum cans and/or bag-in-box.



Hansen’s®Energy Drinks- Our Hansen’s®energy drinks compete in the “functional” beverage category, namely, beverages that provide a real or perceived benefit in addition to simply delivering refreshment. Our Hansen’s®energy drinks contain vitamins, minerals, nutrients, herbs and supplements (collectively, “supplements”). We market our Hansen’s® brand energy drinks through the Warehouse segment. We offer the following products under the Hansen’s®energy drink product line: Hansen’s® Energy Pro and Hansen’s®Energy Diet Red.We package our Hansen’s® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce aluminum cans.



Juice Products and Smoothies- Our fruit juice product line includes Hansen’s® Natural Apple Juice, which is packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles and 128-ounce High Density Polyethylene bottles; as well as Hansen’s® Natural Grape Juice, White Grape Juice, Pineapple Juice, Apple Grape Juice, Apple Strawberry Juice, Orange Juice, Cranberry-Apple Juice, Ruby Red Grapefruit Juice, and Organic Apple Juice, which are all packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles. These Hansen’s® juice products contain 100% juice as well as 120% of the United States Recommended Daily Allowances (the “USRDA”) for Vitamin C. We also offer Hansen’s® Natural Lo-Cal juice cocktails, a line of all natural, lo
w-calorie 64-ounce juice cocktails in four flavors. The Lo-Cal juice cocktails are sweetened with Truvia™ brand stevia extract, an all natural sweetener. Hansen’s® juice products compete in the shelf-stable juice category.



Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies contain approximately 25% juice and provide 100% of the USRDA for adults of Vitamins A, C & E, and represented Hansen’s® entry, in 1995, into what is commonly referred to as the “functional” beverage category. Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies are packaged in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans.



Juices for Children -Our Juice Blast® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks is a dual-branded 100% juice line which was launched in conjunction with Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”) and is sold through Costco stores. Our Juice Slam™ line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks is a 100% juice line, which we market to other customers. Both the Juice Blast® and Juice Slam™ lines of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks contain eleven essential vitamins and six essential minerals, are packaged in 6.75-ounce aseptic boxes and are available in a variety of flavors.










Our Hansen’s® Junior Juice® product line is a 100% juice line offered in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages and is targeted at toddlers and preschoolers. Most flavors in the Junior Juice® line have calcium added and all flavors contain 100% of the daily recommended allowance of Vitamin C. We extended the Junior Juice® line by adding organic juice products in 4.23-ounce aseptic boxes. We also market Hansen’s® Organic Junior Water™, a lightly flavored reduced calorie beverage for toddlers, also packaged in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages.



Hansen’s® Iced Teas -a line of iced teas in sleek 16-ounce wide mouth PET plastic bottles. We offer a number of varieties sweetened with cane sugar as well as sugar free and unsweetened varieties.



Hubert’s™ Lemonade –In August 2010, we introduced Hubert’s™ Lemonade, a line of premium ready-to-drink lemonades packaged in 16-ounce glass bottles. Hubert’s™ is sweetened with cane sugar and Truvia™ brand stevia extract, an all natural sweetener. Hubert’s™ Lemonade is all natural and contains no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, caffeine, or artificial coloring. We offer the following products under the Hubert’s™ Lemonade product line: mango lemonade, honey lemonade, raspberry lemonade and original lemonade.



Admiral™ Iced Teas -In March 2010, we introduced Admiral™ Iced Teas, a line of ready-to-drink iced teas packaged in 24-ounce aluminum cans. Admiral ™ Iced Teas are sweetened with high fructose corn syrup and Splenda®.  Admiral™ Iced Teas contains all natural flavors and contain no preservatives or artificial coloring.  We offer the following products under the Admiral™ Iced Tea product line: raspberry, lemon, mango and green tea.



SELF Beauty Elixir™ by Hansen’s® -a line of low-calorie, functional, ready-to-drink beauty beverages infused with an essential blend of vitamins, minerals, natural fruit & botanical extracts with antioxidants, packaged in 8-ounce slim aluminum cans.



Hansen’s® Natural Fruit and Tea Stix™ -In February 2010, we introduced the Fruit and Tea Stix™ product line, an all-natural, low-calorie powder drink mix, sweetened naturally with Truvia™ brand stevia extract, an all natural sweetener. Hansen’s® Natural Fruit and Tea Stix™ are packaged in 4-gram slim stick packs.



Bottled Water -Our still water product is sold in 0.5-liter plastic bottles, primarily to the food service trade. Sales of this product line are very limited.



Lost® Energy™ Drinks- a line of carbonated energy drinks under the Lost® brand name. The Lost® brand name is owned by Lost International, LLC and the drinks are produced, sold and distributed by us under an exclusive license from Lost International, LLC. We offer the following products under the Lost® Energy™ brand energy drink product line: Lost® and Lost® Perfect 10™.  We package our Lost® Energy™ drinks in 16-ounce and/or 24-ounce aluminum cans.



Energy Juices- a line of non-carbonated energy juices under the Rumba®, Samba and Tango brand names. Our energy juices are 100% juice products that target male and female morning beverage consumers and are positioned as a substitute for coffee, caffeinated sodas and 100% orange or other juices. We package our energy juices in 15.5-ounce aluminum cans.










Vidration® - a zero calorie, vitamin enhanced water line under the Vidration® brand name packaged in 20-ounce PET plastic bottles. We offer the following products under the Vidration® brand product line: Defense, Recover, Energy, Multi – V and Power.



Other Products



We continue to evaluate and, where considered appropriate, introduce additional flavors and types of beverages to complement our existing product lines. We will also evaluate, and may, where considered appropriate, introduce “functional” foods/snack foods that utilize similar channels of distribution and/or are complementary to our existing products and/or to which our brand names are able to add value.



We also develop and supply, on a limited basis, selected beverages in different formats to a limited number of customers with the objective of solidifying and/or enhancing our relationship with those customers.



Manufacture and Distribution



We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource the manufacturing process to third party bottlers and contract packers.



We purchase concentrates, juices, flavors, supplements, cans, bottles, aseptic boxes, aseptic pouches, caps, labels, trays, boxes and other ingredients for our beverage products from our suppliers, which are delivered to our various third party bottlers and co-packers. Depending on the product, the third party bottlers or packers add filtered water and/or other ingredients and supplements for the manufacture and packaging of the finished products into our approved containers in accordance with our formulas. In the case of sodas and other carbonated beverages, the bottler/packer adds carbonation to the products as part of the production process.



Co-Packing Arrangements



We are generally responsible for arranging for the purchase of and delivery to our third party bottlers and co-packers of the containers in which our beverage products are packaged.



All of our beverage products are manufactured by various third party bottlers and co-packers situated throughout the United States and abroad, under separate arrangements with each party. The majority of our co-packaging arrangements are on a month-to-month basis.  However, certain of our co-packing arrangements are described below:



(a)Our agreement with Cold Springs Brewing Company, formerly Gluek Brewing Company (“Cold Springs”), pursuant to which Cold Springs packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues indefinitely, unless terminated by either party in writing upon ninety (90) days prior notice.



(b)Our agreement withCarolina Beer & Beverage(“Carolina”) pursuant to which Carolina packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues until April 2011 and is automatically extended  for additional periods of one (1) year each, unless either party notifies the other in writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the last day of the then current term.



(c)Our agreement with Safeway, Inc. (“Safeway”) pursuant to which Safeway packages certain of our energy drinks and Hansen’s Natural Sodas®. This contract continues until March 2011 and is automatically renewed annually thereafter, unless terminated by either party upon six (6) months written notice.










(d)Our agreement with Dairy Farmers of America, Inc. (“DFA”) pursuant to which DFA packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues until March 2011 and is automatically renewed for consecutive one (1) year periods, subject to mutually agreeable pricing, unless either party provides notice of cancellation at least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the initial term or subsequent extension period. Further, either party may terminate this agreement at its sole discretion at any time by providing the other party with one hundred eighty (180) days prior written notification specifying the date of termination.



(e)Our agreement with the American Bottling Co. (“American”) pursuant to which American packages certain of our energy drinks. This is automatically renewed for additional terms of one (1) month, unless terminated by either party at least thirty (30) days prior to the last day of the then current term.



(f)Our agreement with Giumarra & Associates Beverage Company (“Giumarra”) pursuant to which Giumarra packages certain of our energy drinks and juices.  This contract continues until June 2011 and is automatically extended for additional periods of one (1) year, unless either party notifies the other in writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the last day of the then current term.



(g)Our agreement with Pri-Pak, Inc. (“Pri-Pak”) pursuant to which Pri-Pak packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues indefinitely but may be terminated at any time by either party by giving ninety (90) days prior written notice.



(h)Our agreement with O-AT-KA Milk Products Cooperative (“O-AT-KA”) pursuant to which O-AT-KA packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues until September 2011 and is automatically renewable for consecutive one (1) year periods, subject to mutually agreeable pricing, unless either party provides notice of cancellation at least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the initial term or subsequent extension period.



(i)Our agreement with Coca Cola Bottling Company-Canada (“CCBCC”) pursuant to which CCBCC packages certain of our energy drinks.  This contract continues through February 2012 and is automatically extended for additional terms of one (1) year each unless terminated by either party upon ninety (90) days written notice.



(j)Our agreement with DIS Contractfilling BV (“DIS”) pursuant to which DIS packages certain of our energy drinks.  This contract continues through January 2013 and is automatically extended for an additional term of three (3) years, unless either party notifies the other in writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the then current term.



(k)Our agreement with Whitlock Packaging (“Whitlock”) pursuant to which Whitlock packages certain of our energy drinks.  This contract continues through January 1, 2012 and is automatically extended for additional terms of one (1) year each unless terminated by either party upon one hundred eighty (180) days written notice.



In certain instances, equipment is purchased by us and installed at the facilities of our co-packers to enable them to produce certain of our products. In general, such equipment remains our property and is either returned to us upon termination of the packing arrangements with such co-packers or is amortized over a pre-determined number of cases that are to be produced at the facilities concerned.










We pack certain of our products in a number of locations both domestically and internationally, including in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Europe and Australia, to enable us to produce products closer to the markets where they are sold and thereby reduce freight costs. As distribution volumes increase in both our domestic and international markets, we continue to secure additional packing arrangements closer to such markets to further reduce freight costs. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products and/or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to PET plastic bottles, aseptic boxes, cans, glass, labels, flavors, juice concentrates, supp
lement ingredients and certain sweeteners, and/or procure adequate packing arrangements and/or obtain adequate or timely shipment of our products, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. (See “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors”).





Distribution Agreements



Certain of our distribution agreements are described below:



(a)During the second quarter of 2006, we entered into the Monster Beverages Off-Premise Distribution Coordination Agreement and the Allied Products Distribution Coordination Agreement (jointly, the “Off-Premise Agreements”) with Anheuser-Busch, Inc., a Missouri corporation (“AB”). Under the Off-Premise Agreements, select Anheuser-Busch distributors (the “AB Distributors”) distribute and sell, in markets designated by us, our Monster Energy® and Lost® EnergyTMbrands non-alcoholic energy drinks and Rumba®, Samba and Tango brand energy juices, as well as additional 
products that may be agreed between the parties.



(b)During the first quarter of 2007, we entered into the On-Premise Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “On-Premise Agreement”) with AB. Under the On-Premise Agreement, AB manages and coordinates the sale, distribution and merchandising of Monster Energy® energy drinks to on-premise retailers including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in territories approved by us.










(c)During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC North American Coordination Agreement”) with The Coca-Cola Company (“TCCC”). Pursuant to the TCCC North American Coordination Agreement, we have designated, and in the future may designate, territories in North America in which bottlers from TCCC’s network of wholly or partially owned and independent bottlers, including Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (“CCE”) (now Coca-Cola Refreshments USA, Inc. (“CCR”)), Coca-Cola Bottling Company (“CCBC”), CCBCC Operations, LLC (“Consolidated”), United Bottling Contracts Company, LLC (“United”), and other 
TCCC independent bottlers (collectively, the “TCCC North American Bottlers”) will distribute and sell primarily our Monster Energy® beverages (the “Products”) in the United States and Canada.



(d)During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Distribution Agreement with CCE (now CCR) pursuant to which CCE was appointed to distribute, directly and through certain sub-distributors, the Products in portions of twenty-four U.S. states (the “U.S. Territories”). We may designate additional territories within reasonable proximity to the U.S. Territories and CCE (now CCR) will use reasonable good faith efforts to add the additional territories. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Canadian Distribution Agreement with CCBC (now Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada, Ltd. (“CCRC”)), pursuant to which CCBC was appointed to distribute, directly and through certain sub-distr
ibutors, the Products in Canada, with performance commencing on January 1, 2009. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into distribution agreements with Consolidated, United and other TCCC North American Bottlers for the distribution of the Products in various territories within the United States.



(e)On October 2, 2010, TCCC completed its acquisition of the North American business operations of CCE, through a merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of TCCC. The surviving wholly owned subsidiary was subsequently renamed CCR, and currently distributes the Products in those portions of the United States in which CCE previously distributed the Products. Concurrently with this acquisition, a new entity, which retained the name Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (“New CCE”) was formed, which currently distributes the Products in certain foreign territories (see (g) below).



(f)During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy International Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC International Coordination Agreement”) with TCCC. Pursuant to the TCCC International Coordination Agreement, we have designated, and in the future may designate, countries in which we wish to appoint TCCC distributors to distribute and sell the Products.



(g)During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy International Distribution Agreement and the Monster Energy Belgium Distribution Agreement with CCE (now New CCE) pursuant to which CCE was appointed to distribute directly, and through certain sub-distributors, the Products in Great Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Monaco. During the first quarter of 2011, Sweden was added to the Monster Energy International Distribution Agreement.



(h)During 2010, the Company entered into distribution agreements with certain bottlers of the Coca-Cola Hellenic group (“Coca-Cola Hellenic”) for distribution of its Monster Energy® products in Austria, Bulgaria, Czech-Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and Switzerland.



(i)During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into a distribution agreement with Comercializadora Eloro, S.A., a subsidiary of Grupo Jumex (“Jumex”), for exclusive distribution throughout Mexico, excluding the Baja and Sonora regions, of our Monster Energy® and Monster Energy® KhaosTMenergy drinks as well as select Java MonsterTMproduct line drinks. Distribution under this agreement commenced January 26, 2009. Effective June 11, 2010
, this agreement was amended to include the Baja and Sonora regions.










(j)During the second quarter of 2009, we entered into a distribution agreement with Schweppes Australia Pty Ltd. for exclusive distribution throughout Australia of certain of our Monster Energy® energy drinks. Distribution under this agreement commenced in July 2009.



Distribution levels vary by product and geographic location. Gross sales outside the United States accounted for $240.6 million, $168.0 million and $94.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery distributors with established sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other beverage products. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.



During 2010, we continued to expand distribution of our products in both the domestic and international markets, and our Monster Energy® drinks are now sold in more than 57 countries and territories around the world. We expanded our sales force to support and grow sales, primarily of our Monster Energy® drinks, our Java Monster™ product line, our Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™ product line and our X-Presso Monster™ energy drinks.



Raw Materials and Suppliers



The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products are aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk, cream and supplements, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. Overall prices of such raw materials increased in 2010 as compared to 2009 and are continuing to increase in 2011. We have secured a large portion of our anticipated 2011 requirements of apple juice concentrate at prices similar to those incurred in 2010. Sugar prices were higher in 2010 than 2009 and are continuing to increase. We have secured a large portion of our sugar requirements for 2011. Commodity prices in general have increased and are continuing to show volatility, partially as a result of the unrest in North Africa and the Middle East region. We are experiencing increased costs of aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles and fuel, as well 
as increased costs of certain juice concentrates, certain supplements and other incredients in 2011.



We purchase beverage flavors, concentrates, juices, supplements, cane sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as well as other ingredients from independent suppliers located in the United States and abroad.



Generally, raw materials utilized by us in our business are readily available from numerous sources. However, certain raw materials are manufactured by only one company.  We purchase sucralose, which is used alone or in combination with Acesulfame-K in our low-calorie products, flavors, vitamin blends and herbs, certain other supplements, as well as certain other ingredients, from single manufacturers. Additionally, certain of our cans and flavors are only manufactured by single companies.



With regard to our Java MonsterTMproduct line, the dairy industry is subject to shortages and increased demand from time to time, which may result in higher prices.



With regard to our fruit juice and juice-drink products, the industry is subject to variability of demand and weather conditions, which may result in higher prices and/or lower consumer demand for juices.



Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors.  Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. We have identified alternative suppliers for many of the ingredients contained in many of our beverages. However, industry-wide shortages of certain fruits and fruit juices, coffee, tea, supplements and sweeteners have been, and could from time to time in the future be, encountered, which could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products.










We continually endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for certain of our flavors and concentrates as well as to negotiate arrangements with suppliers which would enable us to obtain access to certain concentrates or flavor formulas in certain circumstances. We have been partially successful in these endeavors. Additionally, in a limited number of cases, contractual restrictions and/or the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals and licenses may limit our ability to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers and manufacturers and/or distributors.



In connection with the development of new products and flavors, independent suppliers bear a large portion of the expense of product development, thereby enabling us to develop new products and flavors at a relatively low cost. We have historically developed and successfully introduced new products, flavors and packaging for our products and intend to continue developing and introducing additional new beverages, flavors and innovative packaging.



Competition



The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and marketing campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.



Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development and marketing of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising, and pricing. We also compete for distributors who will provide our products with more focus than those of our competitors, provide stable and reliable distribution and secure adequate shelf space in retail outlets. Competitive pressures in the “alternative”, energy, coffee and “functional” beverage categories could cause our products to be unable to gain or to lose market share or we could experience price erosion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results.



We have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the energy drink and energy shot categories. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in larger volume packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Snapple, Arizona and Fuse, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits. We believe that many of those products contain lower levels of supplements and principally deliver refreshment. In addition, many competitive products are positioned differently from our energy or “functional” drinks. Our smoothies and certain of our teas are positioned more closely against those products.



We compete not only for consumer preference, but also for maximum marketing efforts by multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors, many of which have a principal affiliation with competing companies and brands. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Inc. (“PepsiCo”), The Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the “DPS Group”), Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods, Inc., Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and Ocean Spray. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local in operation. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.










Domestically, our energy drinks, including Monster Energy®, Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™, Hansen’s® Energy, Diet Red Energy®, Lost® Energy™ and Rumba®, Samba and Tango energy juice in 8.3-ounce and/or 15.5-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml and/or 18.6-ounce aluminum cans and/or 5-ounce and/or 500ml glass bottles, our Worx Energy™ energy shots and our Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™’s, compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, 5-Hour Energy Shot, Stacker 2, Red Bull Energy Shot, Redline Energy Shot, NOS Energy Shot, Rockstar Energy Shot, Full Throttle Quick Shot, Amp Energy Shot and many other brands. TCCC and PepsiCo also market and/or distribute additional products in that 
market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and Vault. Internationally, our energy drinks compete with Red Bull, Rockstar, Burn, V-Energy, Lucozade, Relentless and numerous local and private label brands that usually differ from country to country, such as Play, Mother, Hell, Shock, Tiger and a host of other international brands.



Our Java Monster™ and X-Presso Monster™ product lines compete directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Seattle’s Best, illy issimo coffee and Full Throttle Coffee.



Our Peace Tea™ and Admiral™ Iced Tea product lines compete directly with Arizona, Lipton, Snapple, Nestea, Xing Tea and other tea brands.



Our natural sodas compete directly with traditional soda products, including those marketed by TCCC, PepsiCo and the DPS Group, as well as with carbonated beverages marketed by smaller or primarily local companies such as Jones Soda Co., Clearly Canadian Beverage Company, Crystal Geyser, J.M. Smucker Company and with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.



Our apple and other juice products compete directly with Tree Top, Mott’s, Martinelli’s, Welch’s, Ocean Spray, Tropicana, Minute Maid, Langers, Apple and Eve, Seneca, Northland, Juicy Juice and also with other brands of apple juice and juice blends, especially store brands.



Our fruit juice smoothies compete directly with Kern’s, Jumex and Jugos del Valle as well as with single-serve juice products produced by many competitors.  Such competitive products are packaged in glass and PET plastic bottles ranging from 8- to 48-ounces in size and in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans. The juice content of such competitive products ranges from 1% to 100%.



Sales and Marketing



Our sales and marketing strategy for all our beverages is to focus our efforts on developing brand awareness through image enhancing programs and product sampling. We use our branded vehicles and other promotional vehicles at events where we offer samples of our products to consumers. We utilize “push-pull” methods to achieve maximum shelf and display space exposure in sales outlets and maximum demand from consumers for our products, including advertising, in-store promotions and in-store placement of point-of-sale materials, racks, coolers and barrel coolers, prize promotions, price promotions, competitions, endorsements from selected public and extreme sports figures, coupons, sampling and sponsorship of selected causes and events. In-store posters, outdoor posters, print, radio and television advertising, together with price promotions and coupons, may also be us
ed to promote our brands.  Our extreme sports team endorsements include teams such as the Pro Circuit – Kawasaki Motocross and Supercross teams, Kawasaki Factory Motocross and Supercross teams, Ken Block Rally Racing Team and the Tech 3 Moto GP Team. Our individual athlete and/or personality endorsements include extreme sports figures and athletes such as NASCAR Camping World Truck Series racer Ricky Carmichael, World Champion Moto GP motorcycle racer Valentino Rossi, World Champion Formula 1 racer Michael Schumacher, television personalities such as Rob Dyrdek as well as many other athletes










that compete in other extreme sports related activities, particularly, the Winter and Summer X-Games, supercross, motocross, freestyle motocross, endurocross, Moto GP racing, Formula 1 racing, surfing, skateboarding, wakeboarding, skiing, snowboarding, BMX, mountain biking, snowmobile freestyle, snowmobile racing, NASCAR racing, off-road truck racing, rally racing, etc. Our event endorsements include a wide range of events such as the Monster Energy® Supercross Series, the Vans Warped Tour, the Australian SuperX Supercross Series, the Monster Energy® Grand Prix of France and the FIM Motocross World Championships.



We believe that one of the keys to success in the beverage industry is differentiation, which entails making our products visually distinctive from other beverages on the shelves of retailers. We review our products and packaging on an ongoing basis and, where practical, endeavor to make them better and unique. The labels and graphics for many of our products are redesigned from time to time to maximize their visibility and identification, wherever they may be placed in stores, and we will continue to reevaluate the same from time to time.



Where appropriate, we partner with retailers to assist our marketing efforts. For example, while we retain responsibility for the marketing of the Juice Slam® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks, Costco has undertaken partial responsibility for the marketing of the Juice Blast® line.



We increased expenditures for our sales and marketing programs by approximately 12.9% in 2010 compared to 2009. As of December 31, 2010, we employed 1,186 employees in sales and marketing activities, of which 533 were employed on a full-time basis.



Customers



Our customers are primarily full service beverage distributors, retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, drug chains, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, health food distributors and food service customers. Gross sales to our various customer types for the years ended December 2010, 2009 and 2008 are reflected below. Such information reflects sales made by us directly to the customer types concerned, which include our full service beverage distributors. Such full service beverage distributors in turn sell certain of our products to the customer types listed below. We do not have complete details of the sales of our products by our full service distributors to their respective customers and therefore limit our description of our customer types to include our sales to such full service distributors without reference to their sales to their own cus
tomers.



201020092008Full service   distributors64%66%68%Club stores, drug   chains & mass merchandisers12%12%14%Outside the U.S.16%13%8%Retail grocery,   specialty chains and wholesalers6%6%8%Other2%3%2%



Our customers include CCR (formerly known as CCE), New CCE, CCRC (formerly known as CCBC), Consolidated, United and other TCCC North American Bottlers, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), AB Distributors, Coca-Cola Hellenic, Jumex, Kalil Bottling Group, Trader Joe’s, John Lenore & Company, Pepsi Canada, ULC (“Pepsi Canada”) (terminated by us effective December 31, 2008), Swire Coca-Cola, Costco, The Kroger Co. and Safeway, Inc. A decision by any large customer to decrease amounts purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. CCE (including CCBC up to September 30, 2010) (CCE replaced by New CCE from October 1, 2010), accounted for approximately 28% and 27% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2
009, respectively. The DPS Group, a former customer of the DSD segment, accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our distribution agreement










with the DPS Group was terminated by us effective November 9, 2008. The terminated DPS Group territories are now serviced by a combination of TCCC North American Bottlers and AB Distributors. Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), a customer of both the DSD and Warehouse segments, accounted for less than 10% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and approximately 11% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008.



Seasonality



Sales of ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for the highest sales volumes. The volume of sales in the beverage business may be affected by weather conditions. Sales of our beverage products may become increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations as more sales occur outside of California with respect to our products. However, the energy drink category appears to be less seasonal than traditional beverages. As the percentage of our sales that are represented by such products continues to increase, seasonal fluctuations will be further mitigated. Quarterly fluctuations may also be affected by other factors, including the introduction of new products, the opening of new markets where temperature fluctuations are more pronounced, the addition of new bottlers and distributors, changes in the mix of sales of our fi
nished products and changes in and/or increased advertising, marketing and promotional expenses.



Intellectual Property



We presently have approximately 1,725 registered trademarks and pending applications in various countries worldwide, and we apply for new trademarks on an ongoing basis.  Substantially all of our global trademarks are owned by HBC.  We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and similar intellectual property as very important to our business.  We consider Monster®, Monster Energy®, M Monster Energy®,®, Java Monster™,  X-PRESSO MONSTER™, Hansen’s Natural Sodas®, Hansen’s®, Blue Sky® and Junior Juice® to be our core trademarks.



We protect our trademarks by applying for registrations and registering our trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with government agencies in other countries around the world, particularly where our products are distributed and sold.  We also register copyrights in the statements, graphics and content appearing on the packaging of our products.



Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed as long as the trademarks are in use.



We enforce and protect our trademark rights against third parties infringing or denigrating our trademarks, opposing registration of infringing trademarks, and initiating litigation as necessary.



Government Regulation



The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are subject to various U.S. Federal and state regulations, including but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are also subject to numerous similar and other statutes and regulations.












Measures have been enacted in various localities and states that require that a deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary by jurisdiction. Other deposit, recycling or product stewardship proposals have been introduced in certain states and localities and in Congress, and we anticipate that similar legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at the local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere.



Compliance with Environmental Laws



Our facilities in the United States are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Our operations in other countries are subject to similar laws and regulations that may be applicable in such countries. Compliance with these provisions has not had, nor do we expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, net income or competitive position.



In California, we are required to collect redemption values from our customers and to remit such redemption values to the State of California Department of Conservation based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold. In certain other states and Canada where our products are sold, we are also required to collect deposits from our customers and to remit such deposits to the respective state agencies based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold in such states.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we employed a total of 1,497 employees of which 833 were employed on a full-time basis. Of our 1,497 employees, we employed 311 in administrative and operational capacities and 1,186 persons in sales and marketing capacities.



Available Information



As a public company, we are required to file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A and other information (including any amendments) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  You may read and copy such material at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  You can also find the Company’s SEC filings at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.








Our Internet address iswww.hansens.com.  Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our SEC filings (including any amendments) will be made available free of charge onwww.hansens.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing or telephoning us at the following address or telephone number:Hansen Natural Corporation550 Monica Circle, Suite 201Corona, CA 92880(951) 739-6200(800) HANSENS(800) 426-736719





