ITEM 1.BUSINESS



As a result of the TCCC Transaction (as defined and described below), Monster Beverage 1990 Corporation (formerly Monster Beverage Corporation) (“Old Monster”) effected a holding company reorganization on June 12, 2015, pursuant to which it became a wholly owned subsidiary of New Laser Corporation, which then changed its name to “Monster Beverage Corporation”. When this report uses the words “the Company” “we”, “us”, and “our”, these words refer to Monster Beverage Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. We are a holding company and conduct no operating business except through our consolidated subsidiaries.



Acquisitions and Divestitures



On June 12, 2015, Old Monster, now a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, completed the transactions contemplated by the definitive agreements entered into with The Coca-Cola Company (“TCCC”) on August 14, 2014, which provided for a long-term strategic relationship in the global energy drink category (the “TCCC Transaction”).



Also, on June 12, 2015, Old Monster effected a holding company reorganization in connection with the TCCC Transaction by merging New Laser Merger Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company into Old Monster, with Old Monster surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the “Holding Company Reorganization”), and the Company changed its name from New Laser Corporation to “Monster Beverage Corporation.”



In the Holding Company Reorganization, each Old Monster common share, par value $0.005 per share, outstanding immediately prior to consummation of the Holding Company Reorganization (other than any Old Monster common shares owned by Old Monster immediately prior to the closing of the TCCC Transaction, which were cancelled) was converted automatically into the right to receive one Company common share, par value $0.005 per share. In addition, upon consummation of the Holding Company Reorganization:



·each unexercised and unexpired stock option then outstanding under any equity compensation plan of Old Monster, whether or not then exercisable, ceased to represent a right to acquire Old Monster common shares and was converted automatically into a right to acquire the same number of Company common shares, on the same terms and conditions as were applicable under such Old Monster stock option; and



·each share of restricted stock and each restricted stock unit of Old Monster granted under all outstanding equity compensation plans ceased to represent or relate to Old Monster common shares and was converted automatically to represent or relate to Company common shares, on the same terms and conditions as were applicable to such Old Monster restricted stock and restricted stock units (including the vesting or other lapse restrictions (without acceleration thereof by virtue of the Holding Company Reorganization and the TCCC Transaction)).



Promptly following the effective time of the Holding Company Reorganization, Old Monster assigned to the Company all obligations of Old Monster under Old Monster’s equity compensation plans and each stock option agreement, restricted stock award agreement, restricted stock unit award agreement and any similar agreement entered into pursuant to such equity compensation plans. In addition, all obligations of Old Monster under any employment agreements and indemnification agreements were assigned to the Company.











Immediately after the effective time of the Holding Company Reorganization, (1) the Company issued to TCCC 34,040,534 newly issued Company common shares representing approximately 16.7% of the total number of outstanding Company common shares (after giving effect to such issuance) (the “New Issuance”) and TCCC appointed two individuals to the Company’s Board of Directors, (2) TCCC transferred all of its rights in and to TCCC’s worldwide energy drink business (“KO Energy”) including NOS®, Full Throttle®, Burn®, Mother®, Play®, Power Play®, Relentless®, Nalu® and other brands (the “Strategic Brands”) to the Company, (3) Old Monster transferred all of its rights in and to its non-energy drink business (“Monster Non-Energy”) to TCCC, (4) the Company and TCCC amended the distribution coordination agreements previously existing between them to govern the transition of third parties’ rights to distribute the Company’s energy products in most territories in the U.S. to members of TCCC’s distribution network, which consists of owned or controlled bottlers/distributors and independent bottlers/distributors, and (5) TCCC and one of its subsidiaries made an aggregate net cash payment to the Company of $2.15 billion, $125.0 million of which is currently held in escrow, subject to release upon the achievement of milestones relating to the transition of distribution rights to TCCC’s distribution network.



On the one-year anniversary of the closing of the TCCC Transaction, the then-remaining escrow amount, less an amount sufficient to cover any unresolved claims, will be released to TCCC. Any amount described above that becomes payable following the one-year anniversary will be paid directly from TCCC to the Company. As of February 29, 2016, distribution rights in the U.S. representing approximately 89% of the target case sales have been transitioned to TCCC’s distribution network.  As a result, $125 million is currently held in escrow. The Company expects to transition sufficient additional distribution rights to release all remaining amounts held in escrow. Therefore, the Company believes that achievement of the milestones is probable.



In accordance with ASC No. 420 “Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations”, the Company expenses distributor termination costs in the period in which the written notification of termination occurs.  As a result, the Company incurred termination amounts of $224.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 related to the distribution rights transferred to TCCC’s distribution network. Such termination amounts have been expensed in full and are included in operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015. In addition, the Company recognized as income $39.8 million in the first quarter of 2015, related to the accelerated amortization of the deferred revenue balances associated with certain of the Company’s prior distributors who were sent notices of termination during the first quarter of 2015.



Reportable Segments



In the second quarter of 2015, as a result of the acquisitions and divestitures in connection with the TCCC Transaction, the Company revised its reportable segments to reflect management’s current view of the business and to align its external financial reporting with its new operating and internal financial reporting model. Historical segment information has been revised to reflect the effect of this change.



We have three operating and reportable segments, (i) Finished Products, which is comprised of our Monster Energy® drink products (previously comprising the majority of the former Direct Store Delivery segment) (“Finished Products”), (ii) Concentrate, the principal products of which include the supply of concentrates for the Strategic Brands energy drinks acquired from TCCC (“Concentrate”) and (iii) Other, the principal products of which include the brands disposed of as a result of the TCCC Transaction (previously comprising the majority of the former Warehouse segment and the Peace Tea® brand) (“Other”). Corporate and unallocated amounts that do not relate to a reportable segment specifically, have been allocated to “Corporate and Unallocated.” Our Finished Products segment represented 92.5%, 93.9% and 93.2% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our Concentrate segment represented 5.3% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 (effectively from June 12, 2015). Our Other segment represented 2.2%, 6.1% and 6.8% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 (effectively through June 12, 2015), 2014 and 2013, respectively.



Our Finished Products segment generates net operating revenues by selling ready-to-drink packaged energy drinks to full service beverage distributors, retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, drug chains, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, health food distributors, food service customers and the military.











Our Concentrate segment generates net operating revenues by selling “concentrates” and/or “beverage bases” to authorized bottling and canning operations. Such bottlers generally combine the concentrates and/or beverage bases with sweeteners and water, which are then filled in authorized containers bearing the Company’s respective trademarks and sold to customers directly (or in some cases through wholesalers or other bottlers).



Generally, the Finished Products segment generates higher per case net operating revenues, but lower per case gross profit margins than the Concentrate segment.



For financial information about our reporting segments and geographic areas, refer to Note 18 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in “Part II, Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report, incorporated herein by reference.  For certain risks with respect to our energy drinks see “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors” below.



Overview



We develop, market, sell and distribute energy drink beverages and/or concentrates for energy drink beverages, primarily under the following brand names:



·Monster Energy®·Nalu®·Monster Rehab®·NOS®·Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®·Full Throttle®·Java Monster®·Burn®·Muscle Monster®·Mother®·Mega Monster Energy®·Ultra®·Punch Monster®·Play® and Power Play®·Juice Monster®·Gladiator®·M3®·Relentless®·Übermonster®·Samurai®·BU®·BPM®



Our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks, which represented 92.5%, 93.9% and 93.2% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, primarily include the following:



·Monster Energy®·Java Monster® Kona Blend·Lo-Carb Monster Energy®·Java Monster® Loca Moca®·Monster Assault®·Java Monster® Mean Bean®·Juice Monster® Khaos®·Java Monster® Vanilla Light·Juice Monster® Ripper®·Java Monster® Irish Blend®·Juice Monster® Pipeline Punch™·Java Monster® Cappuccino·Monster Energy® Absolutely Zero·Mega Monster Energy®·Monster Energy® Import·Punch Monster® Baller’s Blend® (formerly Dub   Edition)·Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®   Super Dry™·Punch Monster® Mad Dog (formerly Dub Edition)·Monster Rehab® Tea + Lemonade + Energy·Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®   Anti-Gravity®·Monster Rehab® Raspberry Tea + Energy (formerly   Rojo)·M3® Monster Energy® Super Concentrate·Monster Rehab® Green Tea + Energy·Monster Energy® Zero Ultra·Monster Rehab® Tea + Orangeade + Energy·Monster Energy® Ultra Blue™·Monster Rehab® Tea + Pink Lemonade + Energy·Monster Energy® Ultra Red™·Monster Rehab® Peach Tea + Energy·Monster Energy® Ultra Black™·Muscle Monster® Vanilla·Monster Energy® Ultra Sunrise®·Muscle Monster® Chocolate·Monster Energy® Ultra Citron™·Muscle Monster® Strawberry·Monster Energy® Unleaded®·Muscle Monster® Banana·Übermonster® Energy Brew™·Monster Ghost™ M-100™·Monster Energy® Valentino Rossi·Monster Phantom™ M-100™











Industry Overview



The “alternative” beverage category combines non-carbonated ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades, juice cocktails, single-serve juices and fruit beverages, ready-to-drink dairy and coffee drinks, energy drinks, sports drinks, and single-serve still water (flavored, unflavored and enhanced) with “new age” beverages, including sodas that are considered natural, sparkling juices and flavored sparkling beverages. According to Beverage Marketing Corporation, domestic U.S. wholesale sales in 2015 for the “alternative” beverage category of the market are estimated at approximately $42.5 billion, representing an increase of approximately 9.6% over the estimated domestic U.S. wholesale sales in 2014 of approximately $38.8 billion.



Corporate History





2015 Product Introductions



During 2015, we continued to expand our existing energy drink portfolio and further develop our distribution markets. During 2015, we introduced the following Monster Energy® brand energy drink products, in addition to the Strategic Brands acquired as part of the TCCC Transaction:



·Monster Energy® Ultra Citron™, a carbonated energy drink which contains zero calories and zero sugar (January 2015).

·Monster Rehab® Peach Tea + Energy (January 2015).

·Juice Monster® Pipeline Punch™ (July 2015).

·Muscle Monster® Banana (July 2015).

·Monster Ghost™ M-100™, an exclusive limited time listing with a convenience customer (July 2015).

·Monster Phantom™ M-100™, an exclusive limited time listing with certain convenience customers (July 2015).

·Monster Rehab® Raspberry Tea + Energy (August 2015).











In the normal course of business we discontinue certain products and/or product lines. Those products or product lines discontinued in 2015 (other than those disposed of as part of the TCCC Transaction), either individually or in aggregate, did not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.



Products – Finished Products Segment



Monster Energy® Brand Energy Drinks:



Monster Energy® Drinks- a line of carbonated energy drinks. Our Monster Energy® drinks contain vitamins, minerals, nutrients, herbs and other dietary ingredients (collectively, “dietary ingredients”) and are marketed through our full service distributor network. We offer the following energy drinks under the Monster Energy® drink product line: Monster Energy®, Lo-Carb Monster Energy®, Monster Assault®, Juice Monster® Khaos®, Juice Monster® Ripper®, Juice Monster® Pipeline Punch™, Monster Energy® Absolutely Zero, Monster Energy® Import, Punch Monster® Baller’s Blend®, Punch Monster® Mad Dog, Monster Ghost™ M-100™, Monster Phantom™ M-100™, Mega Monster Energy®, M3® Monster Energy® Super Concentrate energy drinks, Übermonster® Energy Brew™, Monster Energy® Zero Ultra, Monster Energy® Ultra Blue™, Monster Energy® Ultra Red™, Monster Energy® Ultra Black™, Monster Energy® Ultra Sunrise®, Monster Energy® Ultra Citron™, Monster Energy® Unleaded® and Monster Energy® Valentino Rossi.



Java Monster®Coffee + Energy Drinks- a line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee + energy drinks. We offer the following coffee + energy drinks under the Java Monster® product line: Java Monster® Kona Blend, Java Monster® Loca Moca®, Java Monster® Mean Bean®, Java Monster® Vanilla Light, Java Monster® Irish Blend® and Java Monster® Cappuccino.



Muscle Monster®Energy Shakes– a line of non-carbonated energy shakes containing 25-grams of protein. We offer the following energy shakes under the Muscle Monster® Energy Shake product line: Vanilla, Chocolate, Strawberry and Banana.



Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®Energy Drinks- a line of carbonated energy drinks containing nitrous oxide. We offer the following energy drinks under the Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology® product line: Super Dry™ and Anti Gravity®.



Monster Rehab® Tea + Energy Drinks- a line of non-carbonated energy drinks with electrolytes. We offer the following tea + energy drinks under the Monster Rehab® drink line: Monster Rehab® Tea + Lemonade + Energy, Monster Rehab® Raspberry Tea + Energy, Monster Rehab® Green Tea + Energy, Monster Rehab® Tea + Orangeade + Energy, Monster Rehab® Tea + Pink Lemonade + Energy and Monster Rehab Peach® Tea + Energy.











Products – Concentrate Segment



Strategic Brands Energy Drinks:



BU®-a line of carbonated energy drinks.  We offer the following energy drinks under the BU®product line: Original.



Burn®- a line of carbonated energy drinks. We offer the following energy drinks under the Burn® product line: Original, Zero, Berry, Lemon and Blue Refresh.



BPM®- a line of carbonated energy drinks.  We offer the following energy drinks under the BPM® product line: Focus and Hydrate.



Full Throttle®- a line of carbonated energy drinks.  We offer the following energy drinks under the Full Throttle® product line: Citrus, Agave and Berry.



Gladiator® -a line of carbonated energy drinks.  We offer the following energy drinks under the Gladiator® product line: Original.



Mother® -a line of carbonated energy drinks. We offer the following energy drinks under the Mother®product line: Original, Sugar Free, Frosty Berry, Green Storm, Surge Orange and Revive.



Nalu®- a line of carbonated energy drinks. We offer the following energy drinks under the Nalu®product line: Original and Exotic.



NOS®- a line of carbonated energy drinks. We offer the following energy drinks under the NOS®product line: Original, Original Zero, Charged Citrus, Charged Citrus Zero, Grape and Loaded Cherry.



Play® and Power Play® -a line of carbonated energy drinks. We offer the following energy drinks under the Play®and Power Play®product line: Original, Light, Dare and Forge.



Relentless® -a line of carbonated energy drinks.  We offer the following energy drinks under the Relentless®product line: Origin, Origin Ultra, Apple Kiwi, Lemon Ice and Cherry.



Samurai® -a line of carbonated energy drinks.  We offer the following energy drinks under the Samurai® product line: Strawberry and Fruity.



Ultra® -a line of carbonated energy drinks.  We offer the following energy drinks under the Ultra®product line: Original and Orange.



Products – Other Segment (sales through June 12, 2015)



As part of the TCCC Transaction, we transferred all of our rights in and to the following products to TCCC with the exception of Hansen’s® and Blue Sky® energy drinks, which were discontinued.



Peace Tea® Iced Teas and Juice Drinks- a line of ready-to-drink iced teas and juice drinks.



Hansen’s® Brand Sodas -Hansen’s® brand sodas have been a leading natural soda brand on the West Coast of the United States for more than 35 years and are made with natural flavors. Hansen’s® brand sodas, sweetened with cane sugar, and Hansen’s® Diet Sodas, sweetened with Splenda® no calorie sweetener and Acesulfame-K, contain no preservatives, sodium, or caffeine.











Blue Sky®Products -Blue Sky® products contain no preservatives, artificial sweeteners or caffeine (other than our Blue Sky® energy drinks) and are made with natural flavors.



Hansen’s®Energy Drinks -Hansen’s® Energy Drinks competed in the “functional” beverage category, namely, beverages that provide a benefit in addition to simply delivering refreshment.



Hansen’s® Juice Products -The juice product line contains 100% juice and 120% of the United States Recommended Daily Allowances for vitamin C.



Hansen’s® Aseptic Juices –The line of aseptically packed boxed juice products, includes our dual-branded multi-vitamin 100% juice line, which is sold in conjunction with Costco Wholesale Corporation.



Hubert’s® Lemonades -Hubert’s® Lemonade is a line of premium ready-to-drink lemonades available in a variety of flavors. Hubert’s® Lemonade is sweetened with cane sugar and stevia leaf extract and contains no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, artificial flavors or caffeine.



Other Products



We continue to evaluate and, where considered appropriate, introduce additional flavors and types of beverages to complement our existing product lines. We may also evaluate, and where considered appropriate, introduce additional types of consumer products we consider are complementary to our existing products and/or to which our brand names are able to add value. Under the terms of the TCCC Transaction, we have agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to compete with TCCC in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages, other than the energy drink category.



We also develop and supply, on a limited exclusive basis, selected beverages in different formats to a limited number of customers, with the objective of solidifying and/or enhancing our relationship with those customers.



Products – Packaging



We package our products in a variety of different package types and sizes including, but not limited to, aluminum cans, aluminum Cap Cans, sleek aluminum cans, aluminum cans with resealable ends and glass bottles. In addition to these packages, our bottlers package certain of our Strategic Brands in polyethylene terephthalate (PET) plastic bottles.



Manufacture and Distribution



We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource the manufacturing process to third party bottlers and contract packers.



For our Finished Products segment, we purchase concentrates, sweeteners, juices, flavors, dietary ingredients, cans, bottles, caps, labels, trays, boxes and other ingredients for our beverage products from our suppliers, which are delivered to our various third party bottlers and co-packers. In some cases, certain common supplies may be purchased by our various third party bottlers and co-packers. Depending on the product, the third party bottlers or packers add filtered water and/or other ingredients (including dietary ingredients) for the manufacture and packaging of the finished products into our approved containers in accordance with our formulas. Depending on the beverage, the bottler/packer may also add carbonation to the products as part of the production process.











For our Concentrate segment, we purchase concentrates and/or beverage bases which are then sold to certain of our various third party bottlers/distributors. The third party bottlers/distributors are responsible for the manufacture and packaging of the finished products including the procurement of all other required ingredients and packaging materials.



Co-Packing Arrangements



All of our beverage products are manufactured by various third party bottlers and co-packers situated throughout the United States and abroad, under separate arrangements with each party. The majority of our co-packaging arrangements are generally on a month-to-month basis or are terminable upon request and do not generally obligate us to produce any minimum quantities of products within specified periods.



In some instances subject to agreement, certain equipment may be purchased by us and installed at the facilities of our co-packers to enable them to produce certain of our products. In general, such equipment remains our property and is returned to us upon termination of the packing arrangements with such co-packers, unless we are reimbursed by the co-packer via a per-case credit over a pre-determined number of cases that are produced at the facilities concerned.



For our Finished Products segment, we are generally responsible for arranging for the purchase and delivery to our third party bottlers and co-packers of the containers in which our beverage products are packaged.



We pack certain of our products in a number of locations both domestically and internationally, to enable us to produce products closer to the markets where they are sold, with the objective of reducing freight costs as well as transportation-related product damages. As distribution volumes increase in both our domestic and international markets, we will continue to source additional packing arrangements closer to such markets to further reduce freight costs. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products and/or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to aluminum cans, aluminum Cap Cans, sleek aluminum cans, aluminum cans with resealable ends, PET plastic bottles, glass, labels, flavors, juice concentrates, dietary ingredients, other ingredients and certain sweeteners, and/or procure adequate packing arrangements and/or obtain adequate or timely shipment of our products, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. (See “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors”).



Our production arrangements are generally of short duration or are terminable upon our request. For certain of our products, including our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks, our Java Monster® product line, our Muscle Monster® product line, our Punch Monster® product line and certain of our other products, there are limited co-packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment to package our products. We believe a short disruption or delay in production would not significantly affect our revenues; however, as alternative co-packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate long-term capacity may not be available for such products, either at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all, a lengthy disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues.



We continue to actively seek alternative and/or additional co-packing facilities around the world (including in Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada, Central America, China, Europe, India, Mexico, the Middle East, South America and the United States) with adequate capacity and capability for the production of our various products to minimize transportation costs and transportation-related damages as well as to mitigate the risk of a disruption in production and/or importation.











Distribution Agreements



During 2015, we continued to expand distribution of our products in both our domestic and international markets, due in part to the TCCC Transaction, and our products are now sold in approximately 156 countries and territories around the world.



Monster Energy®Distribution Agreements



We have entered into agreements with various distributors providing for the distribution of our products during initial terms of up to twenty years, which may be renewed thereafter for additional terms ranging from one to five years.  Such agreements remain in effect for their then current term as long as our products are being distributed, but are subject to specified termination rights held by each party, which may include by way of example, and depending on the form of agreement, termination upon: mutual agreement; material breach of the agreement by, or an insolvency of, either party; deadlock; change of control; changes in legal or regulatory conditions; and termination of certain related agreements.  Additionally, we are entitled to terminate certain of such agreements at any time without cause upon payment of a termination fee, including the distribution agreements with select Anheuser-Busch distributors (the “AB Distributors”) and certain distribution agreements with TCCC bottlers that were entered into prior to 2015.



Certain of our material distribution agreements for our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks, as amended from time to time, are described below:





(a)Amended and Restated Distribution Coordination Agreement with TCCC, pursuant to which we have designated, and in the future may designate, subject to TCCC’s approval, territories in Canada and the United States in which bottlers from TCCC’s network of wholly or partially-owned and independent bottlers, including Coca-Cola Refreshments USA, Inc. (“CCR”), Coca-Cola Bottling Company (“CCBC”), CCBCC Operations, LLC (“Consolidated”), United Bottling Contracts Company, LLC (“United”), and other TCCC independent bottlers (collectively, the “TCCC North American Bottlers”) will distribute and sell, or continue to distribute and sell, our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks.  In connection with the TCCC Transaction, the parties entered into the Amended TCCC North American Coordination Agreement in order to, among other things, change the procedure under which the TCCC North American Bottlers are appointed in specified territories.



(b)Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement with CCR, pursuant to which CCR distributes, directly and through certain sub-distributors, our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks in a large portion of the United States.



(c)Amended and Restated International Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “Amended TCCC International Coordination Agreement”) with TCCC, pursuant to which we have designated, and in the future may designate, countries in which we wish to appoint TCCC distributors to distribute and sell our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks, subject to TCCC’s approval. In connection with the TCCC Transaction, the parties entered into the Amended TCCC International Coordination Agreement in order to, among other things, change the procedure under which the TCCC distributors are appointed in specified territories.



(d)Monster Energy International Distribution Agreement and Monster Energy Belgium Distribution Agreement with Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (“CCE”), pursuant to which CCE was appointed to distribute directly, and through certain sub-distributors, our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks in Belgium, France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden.











(e)CCE, Coca-Cola Iberian Partners, the bottler operating primarily in Spain and Portugal, and Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetranke AG, the bottler operating in Germany, have agreed to merge their business interests to form a newly created entity, Coca-Cola European Partners (CCEP). Once this combination is effected, a significant portion of our European distribution will be controlled by CCEP.



(f)Additionally, we have entered into distribution agreements for certain of our Monster Energy products with various TCCC network bottlers, both in the United States and internationally.





Strategic Brands Distribution Agreements



On June 12, 2015, in connection with the closing of the TCCC Transaction, TCCC transferred to the Company all of its rights in and to TCCC’s worldwide energy drink business including: NOS® and Full Throttle® (the “U.S. Strategic Brands”); and Burn®, Mother®, Play®, Power Play®, Relentless®, Nalu® and other brands (the “International Strategic Brands,” and together with the U.S. Strategic Brands, the “Strategic Brands”).



We have entered into distribution coordination agreements with TCCC pursuant to which we have designated, and in the future may designate, subject to TCCC’s approval, territories in which TCCC bottlers will distribute our Strategic Brands energy drinks.



We have entered into agreements with various international bottlers from TCCC’s network of wholly or partially-owned and independent bottlers (the “TCCC International Bottlers”) providing for the distribution and sale of the International Strategic Brands energy drinks during initial terms of up to ten years, which may be renewed thereafter for additional terms ranging from two to ten years.  Such agreements remain in effect for their then current term, but are subject to specified termination rights held by each party, which may include, by way of example, and depending on the form of agreement, termination upon: material breach of the agreement by either party; insolvency or bankruptcy of a TCCC International Bottler; a change of control of the TCCC International Bottler; or changes in legal or regulatory conditions.



We distribute NOS® drinks in the United States through distribution agreements with TCCC North American Bottlers that were assigned to us in connection with the closing of the TCCC Transaction (the “Existing NOS® Agreements”).  The Existing NOS® Agreements provide for the distribution and sale of NOS® drinks in the United States during initial terms of ten years, with automatic renewal for ten year periods, unless terminated in accordance with the terms of the distribution agreement.  These agreements are subject to specified termination rights held by each party, which include, by way of example, termination without cause with the payment of liquidated compensation in certain cases and termination for cause (which includes, among other things, insolvency and breach of the agreement).



We distribute Full Throttle® drinks in the United States through TCCC North American Bottlers pursuant to the existing relationships established by TCCC before the closing of the TCCC Transaction.  We anticipate entering into new distribution agreements with TCCC North American Bottlers that are substantially similar to the Existing NOS® Agreements, but that provide for the distribution of NOS® and Full Throttle drinks, in 2016.



Distribution levels vary by product and geographic location. Gross sales outside the United States accounted for $713.2 million, $657.9 million and $580.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The distribution rights relating to each territory for which the Company sent notices of termination in February 2015, including certain AB Distributors in the United States described above, have been transitioned to TCCC’s network of owned or controlled bottlers/distributors and independent bottlers/distributors as of the effective date of termination of the current third party’s rights in the applicable territory.











Raw Materials and Suppliers



The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products are aluminum cans, aluminum Cap Cans, sleek aluminum cans, aluminum cans with resealable ends, PET plastic bottles as well as flavors, juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk, cream, protein, dietary ingredients and other packaging materials, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations.



For our Monster Energy®brand energy drinks, we purchase beverage flavors, concentrates, juices, dietary ingredients, cane sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as well as other ingredients from independent suppliers located in the United States and abroad.



For our Strategic Brands energy drinks, we purchase concentrates and/or beverage bases from TCCC in the United States and abroad.



Generally, raw materials utilized by us in our business are readily available from numerous sources. However, certain raw materials are manufactured by only one company.  We purchase certain flavors, vitamin blends and herbs, certain other dietary ingredients and sucralose, as well as certain other ingredients, from single manufacturers. Additionally, certain of our containers and flavors are only manufactured by single companies.



With regard to our Java Monster® and Muscle Monster® product lines, the dairy and protein industries are subject to shortages and increased demand from time to time, which may result in higher prices.



Generally, for our Monster Energy

®



We continually endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for certain of our flavors and concentrates as well as to negotiate arrangements with suppliers, which would enable us to obtain access to certain concentrates or our flavor formulas in certain circumstances. We have been partially successful in these endeavors. Additionally, in a limited number of cases, contractual restrictions and/or the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals and licenses may limit our ability to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers, manufacturers and/or distributors.



In connection with the development of new products and flavors, independent suppliers bear a large portion of the expense of product development, thereby enabling us to develop new products and flavors at what we consider to be reasonable economic levels. We have historically developed and successfully introduced new products, flavors and packaging for our products and intend to continue to develop and introduce additional new beverages, flavors and innovative packaging.











Competition



The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors as well as promotional and marketing strategies. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.



Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, brand exposure and marketing as well as pricing. We also compete for distributors who will give our products more focus than those of our competitors, provide stable and reliable distribution and secure adequate shelf space in retail outlets. Competitive pressures in the “alternative”, energy, coffee and “functional” beverage categories could cause our products to be unable to gain or to lose market share or we could experience price erosion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.



We have experienced and continue to experience competition from new entrants in the energy drink and energy shot categories. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas, juice cocktails and enhanced waters in larger volume packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Sobe Life Water, Vitamin Water, Snapple, Arizona, Fuse, Ocean Spray, Honest Tea, Gold Peak Tea, Activate and Mountain Dew Kickstart, have added dietary ingredients to their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits. We believe that many of those products contain lower levels of dietary ingredients, principally deliver refreshment and are positioned differently from our energy or “functional” drinks.



We are also subject to increasing levels of regulatory issues particularly in relation to the registration and taxation of our products in certain new international markets, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. (See “Government Regulation” below for additional information).



We compete not only for consumer preference, but also for maximum marketing and sales efforts by multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors, many of which have a principal affiliation with competing companies and brands. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and in many cases with products of much larger and in some cases better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Inc. (“PepsiCo”), The Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the “DPS Group”) and Red Bull Gmbh. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local in operation. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.



Domestically, our energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, Venom, Redline, Rip It, Xenergy, 5-Hour Energy Shots, MiO Energy, Stacker 2, VPX Redline Energy Shots, and many other brands. PepsiCo also markets and/or distributes additional products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and Mountain Dew Kickstart. Internationally, our energy drinks compete with Red Bull, Rockstar, V-Energy, Lucozade, Adrenaline Rush and numerous local and private label brands that usually differ from country to country, such as Hell, Shock, Tiger, Boost, TNT, Shark, Hot 6, Battery, Bullit, Flash Up, Black, Non-Stop, Bomba, Semtex, Vive 100, Dark Dog, Speed, Guaraná, Sting, M-150, Lipovitan, Bacchus, Volt, Mr. Big and a host of other international brands.











Our Java Monster® product line competes directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Seattle’s Best and illy issimo coffee.



Our Muscle Monster® product line competes directly with Muscle Milk, Core Power, ABB Pure Pro and Gatorade Recover Protein Shake.



Sales and Marketing



Our sales and marketing strategy for all our beverages is to focus our efforts on developing brand awareness through image enhancing programs and product sampling. We use our branded vehicles and other promotional vehicles at events where we offer samples of our products to consumers. We utilize “push-pull” methods to enhance shelf and display space exposure in sales outlets (including advertising, in-store promotions and in-store placement of point-of-sale materials, racks, coolers and barrel coolers) to enhance demand from consumers for our products. We also support our brands with prize promotions, price promotions, competitions, endorsements from selected public and sports figures, personality endorsements (including from television and other well-known sports personalities), coupons, sampling and sponsorship of selected causes, events, athletes and teams. In-store posters, outdoor posters, print, radio and television advertising (directly and through our sponsorships and endorsements) and coupons may also be used to promote our brands.



We believe that one of the keys to success in the beverage industry is differentiation, making our brands and products visually distinctive from other beverages on the shelves of retailers. We review our products and packaging on an ongoing basis and, where practical, endeavor to make them different, better and unique. The labels and graphics for many of our products are redesigned from time to time to maximize their visibility and identification, wherever they may be placed in stores, which we will continue to reevaluate from time to time.



Where appropriate, we partner with our retailers and wholesalers to assist our marketing efforts.



We increased expenditures for our sales and marketing programs by approximately 19.0% in 2015 compared to 2014. As of December 31, 2015, we employed 1,659 employees in sales and marketing activities, of which 1,028 were employed on a full-time basis.



Customers



Our customers are primarily full service beverage bottlers/distributors, retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, drug chains, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, health food distributors, food service customers and the military. Gross sales to our various customer types for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 are reflected below. Such information includes sales made by us directly to the customer types concerned, which include our full service beverage bottlers/distributors in the United States. Such full service beverage bottlers/distributors in turn sell certain of our products to the same customer types listed below. We limit our description of our customer types to include only our sales to such full service bottlers/distributors without reference to such distributors’ sales to their own customers.



201520142013U.S. full   service bottlers/distributors65%62%63%Club stores,   drug chains & mass merchandisers9%9%9%International   full service bottlers/distributors23%23%23%Retail grocery,   specialty chains and wholesalers2%4%3%Other1%2%2%











Our customers include the TCCC North American Bottlers, CCE, Coca-Cola Hellenic, Swire Coca-Cola, USA and certain other Coca-Cola independent bottlers, Asahi, Kalil Bottling Group, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club) Costco and AB Distributors. In February 2015, in accordance with its existing agreements with the applicable AB Distributors, the Company sent notices of termination to the majority of the AB Distributors in the United States for the termination of their respective distribution agreements, to be effective at various dates beginning in March 2015.  The associated distribution rights have been transitioned to TCCC’s network of owned or controlled bottlers/distributors and independent bottlers/distributors as of the effective date of termination of the AB Distributors’ rights in the applicable territories (see Note 9 “Distribution Agreements” in the notes to consolidated financial statements). TCCC, through certain wholly-owned subsidiaries (the “TCCC Subsidiaries”), accounted for approximately 42%, 29% and 29% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.



Seasonality



Sales of ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for the highest sales volumes. The volume of sales in the beverage business may be affected by weather conditions. However, the energy drink category appears to be less seasonal than traditional beverages. Quarterly fluctuations may also be affected by other factors including the introduction of new products, the opening of new markets, particularly internationally, where temperature fluctuations may be more pronounced, the addition of new bottlers and distributors, changes in the mix of the sales of our finished products and increased or decreased advertising and promotional expenses.



Intellectual Property



We presently have more than 6,300 registered trademarks and pending applications in various countries worldwide, and we apply for new trademarks on an ongoing basis. We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and other intellectual property as very important to our business.  We consider Monster® (registered outside of the United States in certain jurisdictions), Monster Energy®,®, M Monster Energy®, Monster Rehab®, Java Monster®, Muscle Monster®, Punch Monster®, Juice Monster®, Unleash the Beast®, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®,  BU®, Nalu®, NOS®, Full Throttle®, Burn®, Mother®, Ultra®, Play® and Power Play®, Gladiator®, Relentless®, Samurai® and BPM® to be our core trademarks.



We protect our trademarks by applying for registrations and registering our trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with government agencies in other countries around the world, particularly where our products are distributed and sold.  We assert copyright ownership of the statements, graphics and content appearing on the packaging of our products and in our marketing materials.  We aggressively pursue individuals and/or entities seeking to profit from the unauthorized use of our trademarks and copyrights, including, without limitation, wholesalers, street vendors, retailers, online auction site sellers and website operators. In addition to initiating civil actions against these individuals and entities, we work with law enforcement officials where appropriate.



Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed as long as the trademarks are in use.



We enforce and protect our trademark rights against third parties infringing or disparaging our trademarks by opposing registration of conflicting trademarks, and initiating litigation as necessary.











Government Regulation



The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are subject to various U.S. federal and state regulations, including but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FD&C Act”); the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and a number of other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, marketing, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are also subject to numerous statutes and regulations.



We also may in the future be affected by other existing, proposed and potential future regulations or regulatory actions, including those described below, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  See “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors – Changes in government regulation, or failure to comply with existing regulations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations” below for additional information.



Furthermore, legislation may be introduced in the United States and other countries at the federal, state and municipal level in respect of each of the subject areas discussed below.  Public health officials and health advocates are increasingly focused on the public health consequences associated with obesity, especially as the disease affects children, and are seeking legislative change to reduce the consumption of sweetened beverages.  There also has been an increased focus on caffeine content in beverages, as discussed below.



In January 2013, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) announced that it would be investigating the safety of caffeine in food products, particularly its effects on children and adolescents. Also in January 2013, we received a letter from Representative Edward J. Markey, Senator Richard J. Durbin and Senator Richard Blumenthal requesting information from us to enable them to better understand a number of issues relating in part to an investigation they said had been launched by the FDA examining energy drinks and potential health risks, particularly for groups of vulnerable individuals, including young people and those with pre-existing cardiac conditions. We provided a response to their letter. The Congressmen issued a report and recommendations in April 2013, most of which we had already implemented. The Congressmen released a follow-up report in January 2015, recommending, inter alia, that the energy drink industry not market to consumers under age 18 and not market their products for hydration, and that the FDA develop and release definitions and guidance for this market sector.  In addition, other organizations, such as the European Food Safety Authority, have also published reports, studies, articles and opinions on caffeine and energy drinks.



Product Labeling and Advertising.We are subject to Proposition 65 in California, a law which requires that a specified warning be provided with respect to any product sold in California that contains in excess of threshold amounts of a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. In May 2015, bisphenol-A (BPA), a food-grade chemical commonly used in the coating of the interiors of aluminum cans, was added to that list. We anticipate that the warning requirement will be deemed to be effective on May 11, 2016. However, our aluminum can suppliers are testing BPA non-intent coating for commercialization prior to this date. If we are required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain other locations where our products are sold, it is difficult to predict whether, or to what extent, such a warning would have an impact on sales of our products in those locations or elsewhere.











In addition, the FDA is considering revising regulations with respect to serving size information and nutrition labeling on food and beverage products, including to require a declaration of added sugars.  If adopted, we may incur significant costs to alter our existing packaging materials to comply with new regulations. Additionally, revised serving size information may impact and/or reduce and/or otherwise affect the purchase and consumption of our products by consumers.



In July 2012, we received a subpoena from the Attorney General for the State of New York in connection with an investigation relating to the advertising, marketing, promotion, ingredients, usage and sale of our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. We cannot predict the outcome of this inquiry and what effect, if any, it may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



In October 2012, we received a written request for information from the City Attorney for the City and County of San Francisco concerning the Company’s advertising and marketing of its Monster Energy® brand energy drinks and specifically concerning the safety of its products for consumption by adolescents. See “Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” below for additional information.



Other countries, such as Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and UAE are also considering labeling requirements, which may require us to amend our labels and warning statements.



Age and Other Restrictions on Energy Drink Products.Proposals to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or restrict the venues in which energy drinks can be sold and/or to restrict the use of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (formerly food stamps) to purchase energy drinks have been raised and/or enacted in certain U.S. states, counties, municipalities and/or in certain foreign countries. For example, Lithuania has enacted legislation prohibiting the sale of energy drinks to persons under the age of 18 and in 2016 legislation will come into force in Latvia restricting advertising of energy drinks, prohibiting sales in educational establishments and prohibiting the sale to persons under the age of 18 of energy drinks containing certain ingredients (such as taurine).



Excise Taxes on Energy Drinks.



Limits on Caffeine Content.  Legislation has been proposed to limit the amount of caffeine that may be contained in beverages, including energy drinks. Some jurisdictions where we do business have prescribed limited caffeine content for beverages. On January 1, 2013, regulations took effect in Canada that limit the amount of caffeine contained in any beverage in a single-serving can or bottle to less than 180 milligrams.  We adjusted the caffeine levels in certain of our Monster Energy® products that are sold in Canada to address these regulations, although the majority of our products were unaffected.  Caffeine limit restrictions or restrictions on combining caffeine with other ingredients have also been implemented or proposed in other jurisdictions, including India. Such restrictions could require reformulations of certain of our products. However, we may not be able to satisfactorily reformulate our products in all jurisdictions that adopt similar legislation.











Limitations on Container Size.We package our products in a variety of different package types and sizes, including for certain of our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks in aluminum cans larger than 16 fluid ounces. Certain jurisdictions, such as the member states of the Gulf Corporation Council as well as Yemen are considering container size limitations on energy drinks which may require us to change the size of our products sold in certain of these countries.



Container Deposits.Various municipalities, states and foreign countries require that a deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary by jurisdiction. Other deposit, recycling or product stewardship proposals have been introduced in certain U.S. states, counties, municipalities and in certain foreign countries.



Compliance with Environmental Laws



Our facilities in the United States are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Our operations in other countries are subject to similar laws and regulations that may be applicable in such countries. Compliance with these provisions has not had, nor do we expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, net income or competitive position.



In California, we are required to collect redemption values from our customers and to remit such redemption values to the State of California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold. In certain other states and countries where our products are sold, we are also required to collect deposits from our customers and to remit such deposits to the respective jurisdictions based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold in such states.



Employees



As of December 31, 2015, we employed a total of 2,214 employees of which 1,500 were employed on a full-time basis. Of our 2,214 employees, we employed 555 in administrative and operational capacities and 1,659 persons in sales and marketing capacities.



Available Information



As a public company, we are required to file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A and other information (including any amendments) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  You may read and copy such material at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  You can also find the Company’s SEC filings at the SEC’s website, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at http://www.sec.gov.



Our Internet address iswww.monsterbevcorp.com.  Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our SEC filings (including any amendments) will be made available free of charge onwww.monsterbevcorp.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing to, or telephoning us, at the following address or telephone number:



Monster Beverage Corporation

1 Monster Way

Corona, CA 92879

(951) 739-6200

(800) 426-7367











