10-K


pool10k2000.htm

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON‚ D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

X

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31‚ 2000 OR

__

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM________TO_________

COMMISSION FILE NO.: 0-26640

SCP POOL CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

36-3943363

(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)

(IRS Employer Identification No.)

109 Northpark Boulevard‚ Covington‚
Louisiana

70433-5001

(Address of principal executive
offices)

(Zip Code)

985-892-5521

(Registrant’s telephone number‚ including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock‚ par value $0.001 per share

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such
reports)‚ and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days. YES

X

NO __

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein and will not be contained‚ to the best of the Registrant’s
knowledge‚ in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

X

The aggregate market value
of voting stock and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of February 28‚ 2001 was approximately $567‚058‚800.

As of February 28‚ 2001 the
Registrant had 17‚054‚400 shares of common stock outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by
Reference

Portions of the
Registrant’s Proxy Statement to be mailed to stockholders on or about April
4‚ 2001 for the Annual Meeting to be held on May 9‚ 2001‚ are incorporated by
reference in Part III.

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1.          Business

General

SCP Pool Corporation
(together with its wholly owned subsidiaries‚ the “Company”) was
incorporated in 1993 and is the world’s largest wholesale distributor of
swimming pool supplies and related equipment. The Company’s net sales have
grown from approximately $161.1 million in 1995 to $669.8 million in 2000. As of
February 28‚ 2001‚ the Company conducted operations through 160 service centers
in 35 states‚ the United Kingdom and France. The Company’s domestic and
foreign net sales were 97% and 3%‚ respectively‚ in 2000; 98% and 2%‚
respectively‚ in 1999; and 99% and 1%‚ respectively‚ in 1998.

2000 Acquisitions

The Company completed two
acquisitions during 2000 (the “2000 Acquisitions”). The Company
completed the purchase of substantially all of the assets and the assumption of
certain liabilities of Superior Pool Products‚ Inc. (the “Superior
Acquisition” or “Superior”) and Pool-Rite‚ Inc.
(“Pool-Rite”) in July and October 2000‚ respectively‚ for an aggregate
purchase price of approximately $25.0 million. The 2000 Acquisitions were
accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and the results of
operations have been included in the accompanying Consolidated Financial
Statements since the respective dates of acquisition.

Superior‚ previously
operated as a subsidiary of Arch Chemicals‚ Inc.‚ distributed swimming pool
equipment‚ parts and supplies through 19 service centers in California‚ Arizona
and Nevada. Pool-Rite operated two service centers in Miami – Dade County‚
Florida.

1999 Acquisitions

The Company completed four
acquisitions during 1999 (the “1999 Acquisitions”). In January 1999‚
the Company acquired certain assets of Benson Pump Company (the “Benson
Acquisition”) and the capital stock of Pratts Plastics Limited (the
“SPW Acquisition”). The Company also acquired certain assets of Garden
Leisure Products (the “GLP Acquisition”) and the capital stock of Jean
Albouy‚ S.A. (the “Albouy Acquisition”) in November and December 1999‚
respectively. The 1999 Acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method
of accounting and the results of operations have been included in the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements since the respective dates of
acquisition. The aggregate purchase price for the 1999 Acquisitions was
approximately $25.5 million. Benson Pump Company operated 20 service centers in
16 states. The Company consolidated the operations of 16 of these service
centers into existing service center locations and closed one service center
location. Pratts Plastic Limited operated one service center in Essex‚ England‚
while Garden Leisure Products operated one service center in Horsham‚ England.
Jean Albouy‚ S.A. operated one service center in Rodez‚ France.

Recent Events

In January 2001‚ the
Company completed the purchase of substantially all of the assets and the
assumption of certain liabilities of the pool division of Hughes Supply‚ Inc.
(the “Hughes Acquisition” or “Hughes”) for a purchase price
of approximately $48.0 million. The Hughes Acquisition added 31 service centers
to the Company’s distribution network in the eastern half of the United
States.

Operating Strategy

In an effort to establish a
second national distribution network‚ the 19 service centers acquired in the
Superior Acquisition and 26 of the service centers acquired in the Hughes
Acquisition will operate under the Superior Pool Products name and
will retain certain suppliers‚ product relationships and marketing programs
exclusive to them. Both Superior and Hughes had historically been prominent
forces in the industry and had a high degree of customer loyalty. The Company
adopted an operating strategy of offering two distinct distribution choices to
customers in order to capitalize on this loyalty‚ recognition and expanding market base.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1.          Business (continued)

Growth Strategy

The Company’s growth
strategy primarily consists of internal growth complemented by acquisitions as
strategically and tactically appropriate.

The Company has grown
internally through increases in same store sales and the opening of new service
centers. Same store sales increased 11%‚ 14% and 14% in 2000‚ 1999 and 1998‚
respectively. These increases are primarily attributable to increased market
share due to several factors including an increase in the breadth of products
offered and the further development of joint marketing programs with both the
Company’s suppliers and the Company’s dealers. The Company believes that
these marketing programs add value to the customer’s businesses by increasing
consumer awareness regarding the ease and low cost of pool ownership and maintenance.
Additionally‚ the Company has opened 22 new service centers since 1996.

Since 1996‚ the Company has
successfully completed 11 acquisitions consisting of 96 service centers (net of
service center consolidations). The Company intends to pursue additional
strategic acquisitions to further penetrate existing markets and to expand into
new geographic markets. The Company continues to explore appropriate acquisition
candidates and is frequently engaged in discussions regarding potential
acquisitions.

Products

The Company offers more
than 60‚000 national brand and private label products including both
non-discretionary pool maintenance products (products which must be purchased by
pool owners)‚ such as chemicals and replacement parts and discretionary
products‚ such as packaged pools (kits to build swimming pools which include
walls‚ liners‚ bracing and other materials) and pool equipment such as cleaners‚
filters‚ heaters‚ pumps and lights. In 2000‚ the Company significantly increased
the breadth of complementary products offered including toys and games‚ hand
tools‚ building materials‚ electrical supplies‚ and water features such as
fountains.

Customers and Marketing

The Company distributes its
products to more than 38‚000 customers‚ primarily swimming pool remodelers and
builders‚ retail swimming pool stores and swimming pool repair and service
companies. Historically‚ no customer has accounted for more than 1% of the
Company’s sales.

The Company conducts its
operations through 160 service centers in 35 states‚ the United Kingdom and
France. The Company’s principal markets include Florida‚ California‚ Texas
and Arizona.

The Company employs a
dedicated sales force that prides itself on customer relationships. The
Company’s principal marketing activities are conducted by a sales force of
149 salespersons and 148 service center managers as of February 28‚ 2001.

Distribution

Service centers are located
near customer concentrations‚ typically in industrial‚ commercial or mixed-use
zones. Customers may procure products at any service center location‚ or
products may be delivered via the Company’s trucks.

The Company’s service
centers maintain well-stocked inventories to meet customers’ immediate
needs. Technology in warehouse management is utilized to optimize receiving‚
inventory control‚ picking‚ packing and shipping functions.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1.          Business (continued)

Purchasing and Suppliers

The Company has good
relationships with its suppliers who generally offer competitive pricing‚ return
policies and promotional allowances. It is customary in the swimming pool supply
industry for manufacturers to offer extended payment terms on their products to
qualifying purchasers such as the Company. These terms are typically available
to the Company for pre-season or early season purchases. The Company initiated a
preferred vendor program in 1999 whereby service centers are encouraged to
purchase products from a smaller number of vendors in order to effect more
efficient purchasing and inventory management. The service centers are also
encouraged to ensure accurate pricing and greater pricing discipline at the
point of sale. These practices have resulted in improved margins throughout the
Company.

The Company regularly
evaluates supplier relationships and considers alternate sourcing to assure
competitive costs and quality standards. The Company’s largest suppliers are
Pac-Fab‚ Inc. (a subsidiary of Pentair Corporation)‚ Hayward Pool Products‚ Inc.
and Bio-Lab‚ Inc. (a subsidiary of Great Lakes Chemicals‚ Inc.); these suppliers
provided approximately 16%‚ 14% and 8%‚ respectively‚ of the Company’s material
purchases in 2000.

Supply Agreements

In connection with the
acquisition of The B-L Network‚ Inc. in September 1996‚ the Company sold the
chemical manufacturing and repackaging assets of its subsidiary Alliance
Packaging‚ Inc. to Bio-Lab‚ Inc.‚ the parent of The B-L Network‚ Inc. In
addition‚ the Company and Bio-Lab‚ Inc. entered into supply agreements pursuant
to which Bio-Lab‚ Inc. agreed to supply the Company with certain chemical
products previously supplied to it by Alliance Packaging‚ Inc. and with certain
chemical products previously supplied to The B-L Network‚ Inc. by Bio-Lab‚ Inc.
The supply agreements expire in 2001 and are subject to renewal upon the agreement
of both parties.

In connection with the
acquisition of Bicknell Huston Distributors‚ Inc. in January 1998‚ the Company
entered into a long-term supply agreement with Pacific Industries‚ Inc.‚ a
subsidiary of Cookson Group plc and the sole stockholder of Bicknell Huston
Distributors‚ Inc. (the “Pacific Supply Agreement”). Under the terms
of the Pacific Supply Agreement‚ Pacific Industries‚ Inc. supplies the Company
with polymer panels‚ braces‚ steps‚ liners and other products used in the
construction of in-ground vinyl pools. The Pacific Supply Agreement expires in
2005 and is subject to renewal at the option of both parties.

Competition

The Company faces intense
competition from many regional and local distributors in its markets and to a
lesser extent‚ mass-market retailers and large pool supply retailers. Some
geographic markets served by the Company‚ particularly higher density markets in
Florida‚ California‚ Texas and Arizona‚ tend to be more competitive than others.
Barriers into entry in the swimming pool supply industry are relatively low.

The Company competes with
other distributors for rights to distribute brand-name products. The loss of or
inability to obtain such rights could have a material adverse effect on the
Company. Management believes that the competition for such distribution rights
may result in a competitive advantage to larger distributors‚ such as the
Company‚ and a disadvantage to smaller distributors.

The Company believes that
the principal competitive factors in pool supply distribution are the breadth
and availability of products offered‚ the quality and level of customer service‚
the breadth and depth of sales and marketing programs‚ competitive product
pricing‚ and consistency and stability of business relationships with its
customers. The Company believes it generally competes favorably with respect to
each of these factors.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1.          Business (continued)

Seasonality and Weather

See Item 7‚ “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -
Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations”.

Environmental‚ Health and Safety Regulations

The Company’s business
is subject to regulation under local fire codes and federal‚ state and local
environmental and health and safety requirements including the Emergency
Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act‚ the Hazardous Materials Transportation
Act and the Occupational Safety and Health Act. Most of these requirements
govern the packaging‚ labeling‚ handling‚ transportation‚ storage and sale of
pool chemicals by the Company. The Company stores chemicals at each of its
service centers. Certain chemicals stored by the Company are combustible
oxidizing compounds‚ and the storage of such chemicals is strictly regulated by
local fire codes. In addition‚ the algicides sold by the Company are regulated
as pesticides under the Federal Insecticide‚ Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and
state pesticide laws which primarily relate to labeling and annual registration.
While considerable efforts are made to ensure the Company operates in
substantial compliance with environmental‚ health and safety requirements‚ there
can be no assurance that the Company will not be determined to be out of
compliance with‚ or liable under‚ such requirements. Such an instance of
noncompliance or liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company
and its operating results.

Employees

As of February 28‚ 2001‚
the Company employed approximately 1‚800 individuals on a full-time basis.
During 2000‚ the Company added approximately 220 employees in connection with
the 2000 Acquisitions. In 2001‚ the Company gained approximately 275 employees
in connection with the Hughes Acquisition. The Company considers its relations
with its employees to be good.

Intellectual Property

The Company maintains both
domestic and foreign registered trademarks primarily for its private label
products and intends to maintain the trademark registrations important to its
business operations. The Company currently holds a patent on a chemical feeding
apparatus and intends to renew the patent as long as the Company deems
necessary. The Company also owns rights to several Internet domain names.

Item 2.          Properties

The Company’s service
centers range in size from approximately 3‚000 square feet to 51‚000 square feet
and consist of warehouse‚ counter‚ display and office space. As of February 28‚
2001‚ the Company owns three service centers in Florida. All of the
Company’s other properties are leased for terms that expire between 2001
and 2011‚ and many of these leases may be extended. The Company believes that
all of its facilities are well maintained‚ suitable for the Company’s
business and occupy sufficient space to meet the Company’s operating needs.

The Company’s
executive offices are located in approximately 29‚000 square feet of leased
space in Covington‚ Louisiana.

The Company believes that
no single lease is material to its operations and that alternate sites are
presently available at market rates.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 2.          Properties (continued)

The following table
illustrates the concentration of service centers in each state and foreign
country as of February 28‚ 2001:

Item 3.          Legal Proceedings

From time to time‚ the
Company is involved in litigation and proceedings arising in the ordinary course
of its business. There are no pending material legal proceedings to which the
Company is a party or to which the property of the Company is subject.

Item 4.          Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted
to a vote of the Company’s security holders during the fourth quarter of
the year ended December 31‚ 2000.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 5.          Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters

The common stock of the
Company began trading on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
“POOL” in October 1995. At February 28‚ 2001‚ there were 51 holders of
record of common stock.

The following table sets
forth in Dollars‚ for the periods indicated‚ the range of high and low sales
prices for the Company’s common stock as reported by the Nasdaq National
Market. The prices for fiscal year 1999 and the first quarter of 2000 have been
adjusted to reflect the three-for-two stock split effective June 19‚ 2000.

Historically‚ no cash
dividends have been declared‚ and the Company currently intends to retain its
earnings for use in its business and therefore does not anticipate paying any
cash dividends in the near future. Any future determination to pay cash
dividends will be made by the Company’s Board of Directors (the
“Board”) based upon the Company’s earnings‚ financial position‚
capital requirements‚ credit agreements and such other factors as the Board
deems relevant at such time. The current terms of the Company’s Senior Loan
Facility restrict the Company’s ability to pay dividends. For further
discussion‚ see Item 7‚ “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital
Resources” and Note 3 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial
Statements.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 6.          Selected Financial Data

The following table sets
forth selected financial data derived from the Company’s Consolidated
Financial Statements. This information should be read in conjunction with Item
7‚ “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” and with the Company’s Consolidated Financial
Statements and accompanying Notes.

_________________

During the years 1996 to 2000‚ the Company successfully completed 10 acquisitions consisting of 96 service centers‚
             31 of which were consolidated into existing service centers.  For further discussion‚ see Item 1.

In 1999‚ the Company adopted Statement of Position 98-5‚ "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up
             Activities" and recognized a cumulative effect adjustment‚ net of a tax benefit‚ of $544‚000‚ or a net loss of $0.03
             per share.

Same store sales growth is calculated using a 15-month convention whereby all newly opened service
             centers‚ all newly acquired service centers and all service centers which are consolidated with newly acquired or
             opened service centers are excluded from the calculation for a period of 15 months.

Item 7.          Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General

The Company derives its
revenues primarily from the sale of swimming pool equipment‚ parts and supplies‚
including chemicals‚ cleaners‚ packaged pools and liners‚ filters‚ heaters‚
pumps‚ lights‚ repair parts and other equipment required to build‚ maintain‚
install and overhaul residential and small commercial swimming pools. In 2000‚
the Company significantly increased the breadth of complementary products
offered including toys and games‚ hand tools‚ building materials‚ electrical
supplies‚ and water features such as fountains. The Company sells its products
primarily to swimming pool remodelers and builders‚ independent swimming pool
retailers and swimming pool repair and service companies. These customers tend
to be small‚ family owned businesses with relatively limited capital resources.
The Company maintains a strict credit policy. Losses from customer receivables
have historically been within management’s expectations.

In an effort to establish a
second national distribution network‚ the 19 service centers acquired in the
Superior Acquisition and 26 of the service centers acquired in the Hughes
Acquisition will operate under the Superior Pool Products name and
will retain certain suppliers‚ product relationships and marketing programs
exclusive to them. Both Superior and Hughes had historically been prominent
forces in the industry and had a high degree of customer loyalty. The Company
adopted an operating strategy of offering two distinct distribution
choices to customers to capitalize on this loyalty‚ recognition and expanding
market base.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.          Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General (continued)

The swimming pool supply
industry is affected by various factors including weather‚ general economic
conditions‚ consumer saving and discretionary spending levels‚ the rate of new
housing construction and consumer attitudes toward pool products for
environmental or safety reasons. Although management believes that the
Company’s geographic diversity and the continuing maintenance and repair
needs for existing swimming pools could mitigate the effect of a regional
adverse weather or economic downturn‚ there can be no assurance that the
Company’s results of operations and expansion plans would not be materially
adversely affected by any of such circumstances.

The principal components of
the Company’s expenses include the cost of product purchased for resale and
operating expenses which are primarily related to labor‚ occupancy‚ marketing‚
selling and administrative expenses. In response to competitive pressures from
any of its current or future competitors‚ the Company may be required to lower
selling prices in order to maintain or increase market share‚ and such measures
could adversely affect the Company’s gross margins and operating results.

Same store sales and gross
profit growth are calculated using a 15-month convention whereby all newly
opened service centers‚ all newly acquired service centers and all service
centers which are consolidated with newly acquired or opened service centers are
excluded from the calculation for a period of 15 months.

The following table shows‚
for the periods indicated‚ information derived from the Company’s Consolidated
Statements of Income expressed as a percentage of net sales for such year.

The following discussions
of consolidated operating results include the results of operations from service
centers acquired during 2000‚ 1999 and 1998. The acquisitions were accounted for
using the purchase method of accounting and‚ accordingly‚ the results of
operations have been included in the consolidated results of the Company
beginning on the respective dates of acquisition.

Year Ended December 31‚ 2000 Compared to Year Ended December 31‚ 1999

Net sales increased $100.0
million‚ or 18%‚ to $669.8 million in 2000 from $569.8 million in 1999. Same
store sales growth of 11% accounted for $52.2 million of the increase‚ while
service centers acquired in the Superior Acquisition contributed $30.4 million
to the increase. The balance of the increase was attributable to sales from new
service centers opened or acquired in the past 15 months.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.          Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31‚ 2000 Compared to Year Ended December 31‚ 1999

(continued)

Gross profit increased
$28.6 million‚ or 21%‚ to $161.9 million in 2000 from $133.3 million in 1999.
Same store gross profit growth of 16% accounted for $18.3 million of the
increase‚ while service centers acquired in the Superior Acquisition contributed
$6.0 million to the increase. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales
increased to 24.2% in the 2000 period from 23.4% in the 1999 period. The
increase in gross profit margin was realized in all domestic regions and is
attributable to a continued focus on pricing and purchasing disciplines.

Operating expenses
consisting of selling and administrative expenses and goodwill amortization
increased $18.6 million‚ or 20%‚ to $112.6 million in 2000 from $94.0 million in
the comparable 1999 period. Service centers acquired in the Superior
Acquisition accounted for $5.2 million of the increase. The remaining increase
reflects not only salaries‚ occupancy expense and other costs associated with
new service centers‚ but also payroll and other operating costs required to
support the increased sales volume at existing service centers. Operating
expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 16.8% in 2000 from 16.5% in
1999.

Interest and other expenses
decreased $0.7 million‚ or 15%‚ to $4.1 million in 2000 from $4.8 million in the
comparable 1999 period. The decrease is primarily attributable to a $1.0 million
write-off in 1999 of certain computer equipment replaced in connection
with improvements to the Company’s information system and Year 2000 efforts.
There were no such write-offs in 2000.

Income taxes increased
$4.2 million to $17.1 million for 2000 compared to $12.9 million for
1999 primarily due to the $10.7 million increase in income before income taxes.
During the second quarter of 2000‚ the Company’s effective income tax rate
increased from 37.0% to 38.25% as a result of changes in its state income tax
mix.

Year Ended December 31‚ 1999 Compared to Year Ended December 31‚ 1998

Net sales increased $112.2
million‚ or 25%‚ to $569.8 million in 1999 from $457.6 million in 1998. Same
store sales growth of 14% accounted for $52.7 million of the increase‚ while
service centers acquired in the Benson Acquisition in 1999 contributed
$21.1 million to the increase. Service centers acquired from the SPW
Acquisition‚ the GLP Acquisition and the Albouy Acquisition (the “European
Acquisitions”) accounted for $8.1 million of the increase‚ and the balance
of the increase was attributable to sales at consolidated and new service
centers open less than 15 months.

Gross profit increased
$30.8 million‚ or 30%‚ to $133.3 million in 1999 from $102.5 million in 1998.
Same store gross profit growth of 17% accounted for $14.6 million of the
increase‚ while consolidated and new service centers open less than 15 months
contributed $9.1 million to the increase. The Benson Acquisition and the
European Acquisitions accounted for the remaining increase. Gross profit as a
percentage of net sales increased to 23.4% in the 1999 period from 22.4% in the
1998 period. The increase in gross profit margin was realized in the majority of
markets across the United States in 1999 primarily as a result of increased
focus on pricing and purchasing disciplines initiated in 1999.

Operating expenses
consisting of selling and administrative expenses and goodwill amortization
increased $16.8 million‚ or 22%‚ to $94.0 million in 1999 from $77.2 million in
the comparable 1998 period. The increase reflects not only salaries‚ occupancy
expense and other costs associated with new service centers‚ but also payroll
and other operating costs required to support the increased sales volume at
existing service centers. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales
decreased to 16.5% in 1999 from 16.9% in 1998.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.          Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31‚ 1999 Compared to Year Ended December 31‚ 1998

(continued)

Interest and other expenses
increased $1.2 million‚ or 33%‚ to $4.8 million in 1999 from $3.6 million in
1998. The increase was primarily attributable to a $1.0 million increase in
miscellaneous expense due to the write-off of certain computer equipment
replaced in connection with improvements to the Company’s information
system and Year 2000 efforts.

Income taxes increased
$4.9 million to $12.9 million for 1999 compared to $8.0 million for 1998
primarily due to the $12.7 million increase in income before income taxes and
change in accounting principle. The Company’s effective tax rate remained
constant at 37.0% in 1999.

Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations

The Company’s business
is highly seasonal. Weather is the principal external factor affecting the
Company’s business. Hot weather can increase pool installations and the
purchase of chemicals and supplies. Unseasonably cool weather or extraordinary
amounts of rainfall during the peak selling season can decrease pool
installations and the purchase of chemicals and supplies. In addition‚
unseasonably early or late warming trends can increase or decrease the length of
the pool season and‚ consequently‚ the Company’s sales. In general‚ sales
and operating income are highest during the second and third quarters‚ which
represent the peak months of swimming pool use and installation. Sales are
substantially lower during the first and fourth quarters when the Company may
incur net losses.

In 2000‚ approximately 66%
of the Company’s net sales were generated in the second and third quarters
of the year‚ which represent the peak months of swimming pool use‚ installation‚
remodeling and repair‚ and approximately 102% of the Company’s operating
income was generated in the same period.

The Company experiences a
build-up of product inventories and accounts payable during the first and second
quarters of the year in anticipation of the peak selling season. The
Company’s peak borrowing occurs during the second quarter primarily because
extended payment terms offered by the Company’s suppliers typically are
payable in April‚ May and June‚ while the Company’s peak accounts
receivable collections typically occur in June‚ July and August.

To encourage preseason
orders‚ the Company‚ like many other swimming pool supply distributors‚ utilizes
preseason sales programs that provide for extended payment terms and other
incentives to its customers. Some of the Company’s suppliers also offer
extended payment terms on certain products to the Company for preseason or early
season purchases. In offering extended payment terms to its customers and
accepting extended payment terms from its suppliers‚ the Company effectively
finances a portion of its receivables with extended payables.

The Company expects that
its quarterly results of operations will fluctuate depending on the timing and
amount of revenue contributed by new service centers and acquisitions. The
Company attempts to open new service centers at the end of the fourth quarter or
the first quarter of the subsequent year to take advantage of preseason sales
programs and the following peak selling season.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.          Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations (continued)

The following table sets
forth certain unaudited quarterly data for 2000 and 1999‚ which‚ in the opinion
of management‚ reflects all adjustments consisting of normal recurring
adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of such data. Results
of any one or more quarters are not necessarily indicative of results for an
entire fiscal year or of continuing trends.

(Dollars‚ in thousands)

QUARTER



First

Second

Third

Fourth

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Net sales

120‚631

253‚957

190‚474

104‚699

98‚906

225‚125

163‚325

82‚469

Gross profit

28‚522

63‚085

45‚591

24‚670

22‚755

54‚646

38‚591

17‚303

Operating income (loss)

2‚679

33‚128

16‚961

(3‚466

)

1‚973

27‚926

13‚592

(4‚148

)

Net sales as a % of annual net sales


%


%


%


%


%


%


%


%

Gross profit as a % of annual gross profit


%


%


%


%


%


%


%


%

Operating income (loss) as a % of

annual operating income


%


%


%

(7

)%


%


%


%

(11

)%

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Currently‚ the
Company’s primary sources of working capital are cash flows from operations
and borrowings under a Senior Loan Facility consisting of a term loan (the
“Term Loan”) and a revolving line of credit (the “Revolving
Loan”). Borrowings are used to fund seasonal working capital needs and for
other general corporate purposes‚ including acquisitions. The Company’s
borrowings under its Senior Loan Facility‚ together with cash flows from
operations and seller financing‚ historically have been sufficient to support
the Company’s growth and to finance acquisitions.

Net cash provided by
operating activities decreased $19.0 million to $18.3 million in 2000 from
$37.3 million in 1999. A $7.0 million increase in net income was offset by
an increase in cash used in operations primarily due to substantial purchases of
product inventories made in the fourth quarter of 2000 intended to maximize
vendor programs and to take advantage of current vendor pricing levels in
anticipation of price increases in 2001. Net cash provided by
operating activities was $37.3 million in 1999 compared to $19.4 million in
1998. An increase in net income provided $7.3 million of the increase while a
decrease in use of cash for operating assets‚ liabilities and activities
provided the remaining $10.6 million. The decrease in the use of cash was
primarily due to improved management of working capital.

The 2000 Acquisitions were
financed by borrowings under the Revolving Loan. The $48.0 million purchase price of the
Hughes Acquisition in January 2001 was financed by borrowings under the Revolving Loan and a
$25.0 million seller’s note issued by Hughes (the “Hughes Note”).
Acquisitions completed in 1999 were financed by borrowings under the Revolving Loan.
Acquisitions completed in 1998 were financed by borrowings under the Revolving Loan and by the
proceeds of a 1997 stock offering.

The Revolving Loan has a
total borrowing capacity of $65.0 million. During the twelve months ended
December 31‚ 2000‚ the Company received net proceeds of $17.0 million from the
Revolving Loan. As of December 31‚ 2000‚ the Company had $31.6 million available
for borrowing under its Revolving Loan‚ of which $23.0 million was used in
January 2001 to finance a portion of the Hughes Acquisition. During the twelve months
ended December 31‚ 2000‚ the Company made required scheduled principal payments
of $3.8 million on the Term Loan‚ which had a balance of $8.3 million at
December 31‚ 2000.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.          Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued)

Borrowings under the Senior
Loan Facility may‚ at the Company’s option‚ bear interest at either (i) the
agent’s corporate base rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.5%‚ whichever
is higher‚ plus a margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.5% or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin
ranging from 0.875% to 2.125%‚ in each case depending on the Company’s
leverage ratio. Substantially all of the assets of the Company‚ including the
capital stock of the Company’s wholly owned subsidiaries‚ secure the
Company’s obligations under the Senior Loan Facility. The Senior Loan
Facility has numerous restrictive covenants which require the Company to
maintain minimum levels of interest coverage and fixed charge coverage and which
also restrict the Company’s ability to pay dividends and make capital
expenditures. As of December 31‚ 2000‚ the Company was in compliance with all
such covenants and financial ratio requirements. The Senior Loan Facility
matures on December 31‚ 2002.

The Company believes it has adequate
availability of capital from operations and its borrowings under the Senior Loan
Facility to fund present operations and anticipated growth‚ including expansion
in its existing and targeted market areas. The Company continually evaluates
potential acquisitions and has held discussions with a number of acquisition
candidates. However‚ the Company currently has no binding agreement with respect
to any acquisition candidates. Should suitable acquisition opportunities or
working capital needs arise that would require additional financing‚ the Company
believes that its financial position and earnings history provide a solid base
for obtaining additional financing resources at competitive rates and terms.
Additionally‚ the Company may issue common or preferred stock‚ which may be
issued to third parties or to sellers of acquired businesses.

Share Repurchase Program

Since October 1998‚ the
Company has purchased 803‚100 shares of its common stock at an average price of
$13.21 per share. An additional $19.4 million remains authorized for the
repurchase of the Company’s common stock. The terms of the Hughes Note
limit the Company’s ability to repurchase shares of its common stock
prior to the maturity date of November 1‚ 2001.
The Hughes Note does permit the Company to purchase up to $5.0 million of its
common stock‚ subject to certain limitations.

Intangible Assets

At December 31‚ 2000‚ the
Company had net intangible assets of $64.3 million‚ representing 26% of total
assets and 52% of stockholders’ equity. The net goodwill balance at
December 31‚ 2000 includes $22.6 million of net goodwill that arose at the time
the Company was established in 1993 in a leveraged buyout transaction. The
remaining goodwill has arisen in connection with the Company’s subsequent
acquisitions. In addition to goodwill‚ loan financing fees are being amortized
over the term of the related debt‚ and three non-compete agreements are being
amortized over the respective contractual terms.

Goodwill is amortized over
periods ranging from 20 to 40 years. In assigning such amortization periods‚ the
Company considered the following factors: (i) projected future cash flows of the
acquired business; (ii) effects of obsolescence‚ demand‚ competition and other
economic factors that may reduce a useful life; and (iii) the expected actions
of competitors and others that may restrict present competitive advantages.
Management periodically assesses the recoverability of goodwill and considers
whether the goodwill should be completely or partially written off or the
amortization period accelerated. See Note 1 to the Company’s Consolidated
Financial Statements for a complete discussion of the policy for evaluating
goodwill for impairment. At December 31‚ 2000‚ management determined that there
was no persuasive evidence that any material portion of goodwill will dissipate
over a shorter period than the amortization periods used.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7a.          Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The Company is exposed to
market risks‚ including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. The
adverse effects of potential changes in these market risks are discussed below.
The following discussion does not consider the effects of the reduced level of
overall economic activity that could exist following such changes. Further‚ in
the event of changes of such magnitude‚ management would likely take actions to
mitigate its exposure to such changes. The Company has not used derivative
instruments to engage in speculative transactions or hedging activities.

The Company will adopt
Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 133‚ "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities‚" as amended‚ on January 1‚ 2001.
As the Company has no derivatives at the date of adoption‚ there will be no
financial statement impact.

Interest Rate Risk

As a result of the variable
interest rates on the Revolving Loan and Term Loan under the Senior Loan
Facility‚ the Company’s earnings are exposed to changes in short-term
interest rates. If (i) the variable rates on the Company’s Senior Loan
Facility were to increase by 1.0% from the rate at December 31‚ 2000;
(ii) the Company borrowed the maximum amount available under its Revolving Loan
($65.0 million) for all of 2001; and (iii) the Company made all required
payments of principal under its Term Loan ($5.0 million) in 2001‚ solely as a
result of the increase in interest rates‚ the Company’s interest expense
would increase by $689‚000‚ resulting in a $425‚000 decrease in net income‚
assuming an effective tax rate of 38.25%. The fair value of the Company’s
Revolving Loan and Term Loan is not affected by changes in market interest
rates.

Foreign Exchange Risk

The Company has
wholly-owned subsidiaries located in the United Kingdom and France for which the
functional currencies are the British Pound and the French Franc‚ respectively.
Historically‚ the Company has not hedged its foreign currency exposure‚ and
fluctuations in British Pound/U.S. Dollar and French Franc/U.S. Dollar exchange
rates have not had a material effect on the Company. Future changes in the
exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar to the British Pound and French Franc may
positively or negatively impact the Company’s revenues‚ operating expenses
and earnings. However‚ due to the size of its operations in the United Kingdom
and France‚ the Company does not anticipate its exposure to foreign currency
rate fluctuations will be material in 2001.

Cautionary Statement for Purpose of the "Safe Harbor" Provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995

Statements contained in
this report regarding future periods which are not historical facts are
forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties‚ including‚ but
not limited to‚ factors related to (i) the sensitivity of the swimming pool
supply business to weather conditions; (ii) the intense competition and low
barriers to entry in the swimming pool supply industry; (iii) the
sensitivity of the swimming pool supply business to general economic conditions;
(iv) the Company’s ability to identify appropriate acquisition
candidates‚ complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms and successfully
integrate acquired businesses; (v) the Company’s ability to obtain
financing on satisfactory terms; (vi) the risk of fire‚ safety and casualty
losses and related claims of liability inherent in the storage of chemicals sold
by the Company; and (vii) the Company’s ability to remain in
compliance with the numerous environmental‚ health and safety requirements to
which it is subject. Such factors could affect the Company’s actual results
and could cause results to differ materially from the Company’s
expectations described above.

The Company’s
stockholders should also be aware that while the Company does‚ at various times‚
communicate with securities analysts‚ it is against the Company’s policies
to disclose to such analysts any material non-public information or other
confidential information. Accordingly‚ the Company’s stockholders should
not assume that the Company agrees with statements or reports issued by such
analysts. To the extent such statements or reports contain projections‚
forecasts or opinions by such analysts about the Company‚ such reports are not
the responsibility of the Company.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 8.          Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

See the attached
Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes (pages F-1 through F-17).

Item 9.          Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting

and Financial Disclosure

The Company has not had any
change in‚ or disagreements with‚ its accountants‚ nor has any event occurred
which is required to be reported in response to this item.

Part III.

Item 10.          Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated by reference
to the Company’s 2001 Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC.

Item 11.          Executive Compensation

Incorporated by reference
to the Company’s 2001 Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC.

Item 12.          Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated by reference
to the Company’s 2001 Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC.

Item 13.          Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated by reference
to the Company’s 2001 Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC.

Part IV.

Item 14.          Exhibits‚ Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

a.

1.

The Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof and set forth on pages

F-1 through F-16.

2.

Financial Statement Schedules. Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or are not required‚

or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial

Statements or Notes thereto

3.

The exhibits listed in the Index to the Exhibits.

b.

Reports on Form 8-K. On December 5‚ 2000‚ the Company filed a Form 8-K under

Item 5‚ Other Events and Item 7‚ Financial Statement and Exhibits reporting the

acquisition of the business of Pool-Rite‚ Inc.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Auditors

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Income

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-7

F-1

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Report of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors

SCP Pool Corporation

We have audited the
consolidated balance sheets of SCP Pool Corporation as of December 31‚ 2000
and 1999‚ and the related consolidated statements of income‚ stockholders’
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31‚ 2000. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
listed in the index item 14a. These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining‚ on a test basis‚ evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management‚ as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion‚ the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly‚ in all
material respects‚ the consolidated financial position of SCP Pool Corporation
at December 31‚ 2000 and 1999‚ and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31‚ 2000‚ in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Also‚ in our opinion‚ the related financial
statement schedule‚ when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as a whole‚ presents fairly in all respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements‚ the Company changed its method of
accounting for start-up costs in 1999.

/S/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

New Orleans‚ Louisiana

February 13‚ 2001

F-2

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Consolidated Balance Sheets

The accompanying Notes
are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-3

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Income

The accompanying Notes
are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-4

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

The accompanying Notes are
an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-5

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

The accompanying Notes
are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-6

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1.          Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business

As of
February 13‚ 2001‚ SCP Pool Corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Company”)‚ maintained
160 service centers in 35 states‚ the United Kingdom and France from which it
sells swimming pool equipment‚ parts and supplies to pool builders‚ retail
stores and service firms.

The Company completed two
acquisitions in 2000 (the “2000 Acquisitions”). The Company completed
the purchase of substantially all of the assets and the assumption of certain
liabilities of Superior Pool Products‚ Inc. (“Superior” or the
“Superior Acquisition”) and Pool-Rite‚ Inc. (“Pool-Rite”) in
July and October 2000‚ respectively‚ for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $25.0 million. The 2000 Acquisitions added 21 service centers in
California‚ Arizona‚ Nevada and Florida. The Company recorded $10.9 million
in goodwill and $2.1 million in non-compete agreements in connection with the
2000 Acquisitions‚ which were accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting and the results of operations have been included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements since the respective dates of acquisition.

During the first and fourth
quarters of 1999‚ the Company made four acquisitions for an aggregate purchase
price of approximately $25.5 million‚ which after the closures of duplicate
facilities‚ added six service centers in the United States‚ the United
Kingdom and France. The Company recorded a $4.0 million non-compete agreement
and $6.3 million in goodwill in connection with these acquisitions.

During the first and fourth
quarters of 1998‚ the Company completed two acquisitions for an aggregate
purchase price of $31.2 million. The acquisitions added 12 service centers
throughout the United States and the United Kingdom. The Company recorded $12.4
million in goodwill in connection with these acquisitions.

In January 2001‚ the
Company completed the purchase of substantially all of the assets and the
assumption of certain liabilities of the pool division of Hughes Supply‚ Inc.
which added 31 service centers to the Company’s distribution network in
the eastern half of the United States. The $48.0 million purchase price of the
Hughes Acquisition was financed by borrowings under the Revolving Loan and a $25.0 million
seller’s note issued by Hughes (the “Hughes Note”).

Principles of Consolidation

The Consolidated Financial
Statements include the accounts of SCP Pool Corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated.

Seasonality and Weather

The Company’s business
is highly seasonal. Weather is the principal external factor affecting the
Company’s business. Hot weather can increase pool installations and the
purchase of chemicals and supplies. Unseasonably cool weather or extraordinary
amounts of rainfall during the peak selling season can decrease pool
installations and the purchase of chemicals and supplies. In addition‚
unseasonably early or late warming trends can increase or decrease the length of
the pool season and‚ consequently‚ the Company’s sales. In general‚ sales
and net income are highest during the second and third quarters‚ which represent
the peak months of swimming pool use and installation. Sales are substantially
lower during the first and fourth quarters when the Company may incur net
losses.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
reported in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and
accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.

F-7

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1.          Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Financial Instruments

The Company’s carrying
value of cash‚ trade receivables‚ accounts payable and accrued liabilities
approximates fair value due to the short maturity of those instruments. The
carrying amount of long-term debt approximates fair value as it bears interest
at variable rates.

Cash Equivalents

The Company considers all
highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when
purchased to be cash equivalents.

Credit Risk

The Company performs
periodic credit evaluations of its customers and typically does not require
collateral. Receivables are generally due within 30 days except for winter sales
under early-buy programs for which extended payment terms are provided. Credit
losses have historically been within management’s expectations.

Product Inventories

Product inventories consist
primarily of goods purchased for resale and are carried at the lower of cost‚
using the average cost method‚ or market. At December 31‚ 2000 and 1999‚ the
reserve for inventory obsolescence was approximately $4‚891‚000 and $3‚040‚000‚
respectively. The reserve for inventory obsolescence at each service center is
based upon a number of factors including aging of the inventory‚ the experience
of the service center manager‚ the previous inventory management performance of
the service center‚ geographical location‚ product offerings and other factors.
The Company believes that the reserve for inventory obsolescence may
periodically require adjustment as changes occur in the above-identified
factors.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are
stated at cost. The Company provides for depreciation principally by the
straight-line method over estimated useful lives of three years for autos and
trucks and ten years for furniture and fixtures and machinery and equipment.
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the remaining life of the lease.
Depreciation expense was approximately $1‚997‚000‚ $1‚589‚000 and $1‚335‚000 in
2000‚ 1999 and 1998‚ respectively.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the
excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired and is amortized on a
straight-line basis over periods ranging from 20 to 40 years. Accumulated
goodwill amortization was approximately $7‚361‚000 and $5‚702‚000 at December
31‚ 2000 and 1999‚ respectively.

The recoverability of
goodwill is assessed periodically and the Company considers whether the goodwill
should be completely or partially written off or the amortization period
accelerated. In evaluating the value and future benefits of goodwill‚ the
recoverability from operating income is measured. Under this approach‚ the
carrying value of goodwill would be reduced if it is probable that
management’s best estimate of future operating income before goodwill
amortization will be less than the carrying amount of goodwill over the
remaining amortization period. The Company assesses long-lived assets for
impairment under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement
No. 121‚ “Accounting for Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of” (SFAS 121). Under those rules‚
goodwill associated with assets acquired in a purchase business combination is
included in impairment evaluations when events or circumstances exist that
indicate the carrying amounts of those assets may not be recoverable. At
December 31‚ 2000‚ management determined that there was no persuasive evidence
that any material portion of goodwill will dissipate over a shorter period than
the amortization period used.

F-8

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1.          Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Other Long-Term Assets

Loan financing fees are
being amortized over the term of the related debt. Three non-compete agreements
are being amortized over the respective contractual terms.

In April 1999‚ the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of
Position 98-5‚ “Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities”
which required capitalized start-up costs to be written-off at the date of
adoption and any future start-up costs be expensed as incurred. The Company
adopted the Statement on January 1‚ 1999 and wrote off $863‚000 and recognized a
cumulative effect adjustment‚ net of a tax benefit‚ of $544‚000.

Income Taxes

Deferred income taxes are
determined by the liability method in accordance with FASB Statement
No. 109‚ “Accounting for Income Taxes” (SFAS 109). Under this
method‚ deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The assets and
liabilities are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in
effect when the differences are expected to reverse.

Stock Compensation Arrangements

The Company accounts for
its stock compensation arrangements under the provisions of the Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25‚ "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"
(APB 25).

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes
revenue when products are delivered to customers.

Shipping and Handling Costs

Shipping and handling costs
represent costs associated with shipping products to customers and handling
finished goods. Included in selling‚ general and administrative expenses are
shipping and handling costs of $6.6 million in 2000‚ $5.0 million in 1999 and
$4.0 million in 1998.

Adoption of Pending Pronouncements

The Company will adopt
Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 133‚ "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities‚" as amended‚ on January 1‚ 2001.
As the Company has no derivatives at the date of adoption‚ there will be no
financial statement impact.

F-9

SCP POOL CORPORATION

2.          Details of Certain Balance Sheet Accounts

Additional information
regarding certain balance sheet accounts is presented below:

3.          Debt

The Company’s
borrowings under its Senior Loan Facility consist of a term loan (the “Term
Loan”) and a revolving line of credit (the “Revolving Loan”). The
components of the Company’s debt were as follows:

Maturities of long-term
debt for the remaining years are $6‚250‚000 in 2001 and $34‚741‚000 in 2002.

F-10

SCP POOL CORPORATION

3.          Debt (continued)

The Company’s credit
agreement includes‚ among other things‚ covenants which require the Company to
maintain minimum levels of interest coverage and fixed charge coverage and which
restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to pay dividends and
make capital expenditures. As of December 31‚ 2000‚ the Company was in
compliance with all such covenants and financial ratio requirements. The Senior
Loan Facility expires on December 31‚ 2002.

Substantially all of the Company’s
assets, excluding those acquired in the Hughes Acquisition‚ are pledged as collateral for the Revolving Loan and the
Term Loan. As of December 31‚ 2000‚ the Company had $31.6 million available
for borrowing under its Revolving Loan. The Company pays a quarterly commitment
fee of 0.25% per annum of the unused portion of available credit under the
Revolving Loan.

As of December 31‚ 2000‚
the Company has outstanding convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount
of $91‚250 that were issued in connection with the Company’s original
formation in 1993. Such notes may be converted at any time through
December 31‚ 2002 into shares of the Company’s common stock at a
conversion price of approximately $0.44 per share. At
December 31‚ 2000‚ the conversion of these notes would result in the
issuance of 210‚000 shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company has
reserved such shares.

The Hughes Note requires principal payments which are due in
four installments beginning with a $1.0 million payment on August 1‚ 2001
followed by three payments of $8.0 million each due September 1‚ October 1
and November 1‚ 2001. The Hughes Note matures on November 1‚ 2001 and bears
interest of 7% per annum payable monthly beginning March 1‚ 2001 through maturity.
The assets acquired in the Hughes Acquisition are pledged as collateral for the Hughes Note.

4.          Income Taxes

Significant components of
the Company’s deferred tax liabilities and assets were as follows:

F-11

SCP POOL CORPORATION

4.          Income Taxes (continued)

Significant components of
income taxes before the tax effect of the accounting change were as follows:

The reconciliation of
income taxes computed at the federal statutory rates to income taxes before the
tax effect of the accounting change was:

F-12

SCP POOL CORPORATION

5.          Common Stock and Earnings Per Share

In May 2000‚ the Board of Directors
declared a three-for-two stock split of the Company’s common stock‚ which
was paid in the form of a stock dividend on June 19‚ 2000 to the
stockholders of record at the close of business on May 19‚ 2000.
Accordingly‚ all prior period share and per share data and related capital
amounts have been adjusted to reflect the effects of this split.

In accordance with FASB
Statement No. 128‚ “Earnings per Share” (SFAS 128)‚ the Company has
presented basic earnings per share computed on the basis of the weighted average
number of shares outstanding during the period and diluted earnings per share‚
computed on the basis of the weighted average number of shares and all dilutive
potential shares outstanding during the year. A reconciliation between basic and
diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding and the related earnings
per share calculation is presented below:

6.          Commitments and Contingencies

The Company leases
facilities for its corporate office‚ service centers and vehicles under
non-cancelable operating leases that expire in various years through 2011 but
which have options to extend for various terms. Rental expense under such
operating leases was approximately $16‚513‚000 in 2000‚ $13‚463‚000 in 1999 and
$10‚563‚000 in 1998. The future minimum lease payments as of
December 31‚ 2000 related to non-cancelable operating leases with
initial terms of one year or more are set forth below (Dollars‚ in thousands):


14‚463


11‚524


9‚182


6‚145


3‚910

Thereafter

4‚085

49‚309

F-13

SCP POOL CORPORATION

7.          Employee Benefit Plans

The Company’s eligible
employees may participate in a Company sponsored savings and retirement plan
that provides for discretionary Company contributions under a profit-sharing
provision. Employees who are eligible to participate in the savings plan are
able to contribute a percentage of their base compensation not to exceed 15%‚
subject to a dollar limit. Beginning in 2000‚ the Company contributes an amount
equal to 50% of employee contributions up to 6% of their base compensation. In
1999 and 1998‚ the Company contributed an amount equal to 25% of employee
contributions up to 6% of their base compensation. Employee contributions are
invested in certain equity and fixed income securities based on employee
elections. Matching contributions and profit-sharing contributions made by the
Company were $894‚000 and $954‚000‚ respectively in 2000‚ $330‚000 and $733‚000‚
respectively in 1999‚ and $272‚000 and $1‚100‚000‚ respectively in 1998.

8.          Stock Option and Stock Purchase Plans

The 1995 Stock Option Plan
(the “1995 Plan”) authorized the Board to grant‚ at its discretion‚ to
employees‚ agents‚ consultants or independent contractors of the Company‚
options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. The number of
shares granted under this plan was limited to an aggregate amount of 1‚350‚000
shares. Granted options have an exercise price of not less than the fair market
value of the stock on the date of grant. Options generally were exercisable two
years after the date of grant and expire ten years from the date of grant. In
May 1998‚ the 1995 Plan was suspended. This action had no effect on options
granted prior to the suspension.

In May 1998‚ the
shareholders approved the 1998 Stock Option Plan (the “1998 Plan”)
which authorizes the Board to grant‚ at its discretion‚ options to purchase
shares of the Company’s common stock‚ stock appreciation rights‚ restricted
stock and performance awards to employees‚ agents‚ consultants or independent
contractors of the Company. The number of shares authorized for issuance under
the 1998 Plan is limited to 1‚687‚500 shares of which 786‚800 shares were
available for grant as of December 31‚ 2000. Granted options usually
have an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of the stock on
the date of grant. During 2000‚ the Company granted 490‚750 options to its
employees and officers. Of those options‚ the Company granted 45‚000 stock
options at $0.01 per share to the executive officers and certain senior
managers. Options generally are exercisable two or more years after the date of
grant and expire ten years after the date of grant. Total compensation expense
for options granted below market price was $428‚000 for the year ended
December 31‚ 2000.

The SCP Pool Corporation
Non-Employee Directors Equity Incentive Plan permits the Board to grant to each
non-employee director options to purchase shares of the Company’s common
stock. The number of shares granted under this plan is limited to an aggregate
amount of 675‚000 shares of which 464‚060 shares were available for grant as of
December 31‚ 2000. During 2000‚ the Company granted 42‚185 options to its
non-employee directors. The options have an exercise price of not less than the
fair market value of the stock on the date of grant and generally are
exercisable one year after the date of grant and expire ten years after the date
of grant.

In March 1998‚ the
Company’s Board adopted the SCP Pool Corporation Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (“ESPP”). Under the plan‚ eligible employees may be granted
rights to purchase up to an aggregate of 1‚350‚000 shares of the Company’s
common stock of which 1‚313‚939 shares were available for grant as of December 31‚ 2000.
Rights are exercisable at 85% of the applicable market value per share.
The applicable market value‚ as defined‚ is the lower of either
(a) the closing price of the Company’s common
stock at the end of a six month period ending either June 30 or
December 31 of any given year or (b) the average of the beginning and
ending closing prices of the Company’s common stock for such six month
period. There were 17‚311 shares issued in 2000 under the ESPP.

F-14

SCP POOL CORPORATION

8.          Stock Option and Stock Purchase Plans (continued)

FASB Statement No. 123‚
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (SFAS 123) requires the
Company to disclose pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per
share as if the Company had accounted for its employee stock options under the
fair value method. The fair value for these options was estimated at the date of
grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted
average assumptions:

December 31‚




Risk-free interest rate

6.77 %

5.41 %

4.71 %

Expected dividend yield

—

—

—

Expected volatility

0.27

0.31

0.29

Weighted average expected life

7.3 years

5.5 years

4.1 years

The Black-Scholes option
valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded
options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In
addition‚ option valuation models require the input of highly subjective
assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because the
Company’s employee stock options have characteristics significantly
different from those of traded options and because changes in the subjective
input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate‚ in
management’s opinion‚ the existing models do not necessarily provide a
reliable single measure of the fair value of its employee stock options.

For purposes of pro forma
disclosures‚ the estimated fair value of the options is amortized to expense
over the options’ vesting period. Had the Company’s stock-based compensation
plan been determined based on the fair value at the grant dates‚ the
Company’s net income and earnings per share would have been reduced to the
pro forma amounts indicated below:

(Dollars‚ in thousands expect per share data)

December 31‚




Pro forma net income

26‚330

20‚407

13‚193

Pro forma earnings per share

Basic

1.55

1.18

0.75

Diluted

1.49

1.15

0.74

F-15

SCP POOL CORPORATION

8.          Stock Option and Stock Purchase Plans (continued)

A summary of the
Company’s stock option activity and related information for the plans
described above is as follows:

A summary of the exercise
prices weighted average contractual life for options outstanding as of
December 31‚ 2000 is as follows:

(Dollars‚ except as noted)

Exercise Price Range

$0.01 - $11.67

$11.68 - $25.75

Options outstanding (shares)

1‚087‚486

482‚310

Weighted average exercise price

6.41

17.02

Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)

6.97

9.16

Options exercisable (shares)

714‚828

45‚000

Weighted average exercise price of options exercisable

6.58

16.33

F-16

SCP POOL CORPORATION

9.          Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

The following is a
tabulation of the Company’s unaudited quarterly results of operations for the
years ended December 31‚ 2000 and 1999:

(Dollars‚ in thousands

Quarter Ended

except per share data)

3/00

6/00

9/00

12/00

3/99

6/99

9/99

12/99

Net sales

120‚631

253‚957

190‚474

104‚699

98‚906

225‚125

163‚325

82‚469

Gross profit

28‚522

63‚085

45‚591

24‚670

22‚755

54‚646

38‚591

17‚303

Net income (loss)

before change in

accounting principle

1‚242

19‚795

9‚750

(2‚711

)


15‚877

8‚051

(2‚984

)

Net income (loss)

1‚242

19‚795

9‚750

(2‚711

)


15‚877

8‚051

(2‚984

)

Net income (loss) per

share before change

in accounting principle

Basic

0.07

1.17

0.57

(0.16

)

0.04

0.92

0.47

(0.17

)

Diluted

0.07

1.12

0.55

(0.16

)

0.04

0.89

0.45

(0.17

)

Net income (loss) per

share after change in

accounting principle

Basic

0.07

1.17

0.57

(0.16

)

0.01

0.92

0.47

(0.17

)

Diluted

0.07

1.12

0.55

(0.16

)

0.01

0.89

0.45

(0.17

)

As a result of differences
in the manner in which in-the-money stock options are considered from
quarter-to-quarter under the requirements of SFAS 128‚ diluted earnings per
share for annual periods may not equal the sum of the individual quarter’s
diluted earnings per share amount.

F-17

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934‚
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned‚ thereunto duly authorized on March 27‚ 2001.

SCP POOL CORPORATION

By:   /S/ WILSON B. SEXTON

Wilson B. Sexton‚ Chairman‚

Chief Executive Officer and Director

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934‚ this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the capacities
indicated on March 27‚ 2001.

SCP POOL CORPORATION

SCHEDULE II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

_________________

(1)     Acquisition of business.

(2)     Deductions represent uncollectable accounts written off net of recoveries and inventory adjustments.

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Exhibit

Number

Document Description

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company. (1)

3.2

Restated Bylaws of the Company. (2)

4.1

Form of certificate representing shares of common stock of the Company. (2)

10.1

Agreement dated as of March 31‚ 1992‚ by and between Wexco and W.B. Sexton. (2)

10.2

Patent Assignment‚ dated as of January 20‚ 1995‚ between Wexco Incorporated and

Alliance Packaging‚ Inc. (2)

10.3

SCP Pool Corporation 1995 Stock Option Plan. (2)

10.4

Form of Individual Stock Option Agreement. (2)

10.5

Form of Convertible Subordinated Note dated as of December 31‚ 1993 issued by

SCP Holding Corp. (2)

10.6

Lease‚ dated as of November 7‚ 1991‚ by and between St. Romain’s Children’s Trust

and South Central Pool Supply‚ Inc. (2)

†10.7

Sales Agreement dated as of October 1‚ 1993‚ between PPG Industries‚ Inc. and

SCP Supply (2)

10.8

SCP Pool Corporation 1996 Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Plan (3)

10.10

Asset Purchase Agreement‚ dated as of September 26‚ 1996‚ among South Central

Pool Supply‚ Inc.‚ SCP Pool Corporation‚ The B-L Network‚ Inc. and Bio-Lab‚ Inc. (4)

10.11

Asset Purchase Agreement‚ dated as of September 26‚ 1996‚ among Alliance

Packaging‚ Inc.‚ SCP Pool Corporation‚ South Central Pool Supply‚ Inc. and Bio-Lab‚ Inc. (4)

†10.12

Supply Agreement‚ among Bio-Lab‚ Inc.‚ South Central Pool Supply‚ Inc.‚ and SCP

Pool Corporation (4)

†10.13

Supply Agreement‚ dated as of September 26‚ 1996‚ among Bio-Lab‚ Inc.‚ South

Central Pool Supply‚ Inc.‚ and SCP Pool Corporation (4)

††10.14

Asset Purchase Agreement‚ dated as of November 13‚ 1997‚ among SCP Pool

Corporation‚ South Central Pool Supply‚ Inc.‚ Bicknell Huston Distributors‚ Inc.‚

Pacific Industries‚ Inc. and Cookson America‚ Inc. (5)

10.15

Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement‚ dated as of December 31‚ 1997‚ by

and among South Central Pool Supply‚ Inc.‚ the institutions from time to time party

thereto as lenders‚ LaSalle National Bank‚ as Agent and Co-Arranger and Hibernia

National Bank as Co-Arranger (6)

10.16

Amendment‚ dated December 31‚ 1997‚ to the Asset Purchase Agreement‚ dated as

of November 13‚ 1997‚ among SCP Pool Corporation‚ South Central Pool Supply‚

Inc.‚ Bicknell Huston Distributors‚ Inc.‚ Pacific Industries‚ Inc. and Cookson

America‚ Inc. (6)

10.17

SCP Pool Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan (1)

10.19

Form of Stock Option Agreement under 1998 Stock Option Plan (7)

10.20

SCP Pool Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (1)

10.21

Amendment No. 1 to SCP Pool Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (7)

10.22

Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of January 8‚ 1999‚ among South Central Pool

Supply‚ Inc.‚ Benson Pump Co.‚ Benson Pump-Georgia‚ Inc.‚ and J.K.K.T. Corp. (7)

10.23

Employment Agreement‚ dated January 25‚ 1999‚ among SCP Pool Corporation‚

South Central Pool Supply‚ Inc. and Manuel J. Perez de la Mesa (7)

10.24

Asset Purchase Agreement‚ dated June 14‚ 2000‚ by and among SCP Pool

Corporation‚ Arch Chemicals‚ Inc. and Superior Pool Products‚ Inc. (8)

10.25

Amendment No. 1 to the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of

July 31, 1998, by and among South Central pool Supply, Inc., the financial institutions listed

on the signature pages thereof, LaSalle National Bank and each of the Persons identified on the

signature pages thereto as a loan party.

10.26

Amendment No. 2 to the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of

December 18, 1998, by and among South Central pool Supply, Inc., the financial institutions listed

on the signature pages thereof, LaSalle National Bank and each of the Persons identified on the

signature pages thereto as a loan party.

10.27

Amendment No. 3 to the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of

June 25, 1999, by and among South Central pool Supply, Inc., the financial institutions listed

on the signature pages thereof, LaSalle Bank National Association and each of the Persons

identified on the signature pages thereto as a loan party.

10.28

Amendment No. 4 to the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of

November 22, 1999, by and among South Central pool Supply, Inc., the financial institutions listed

on the signature pages thereof, LaSalle Bank National Association and each of the Persons

identified on the signature pages thereto as a loan party.

10.29

Consent Agreement to the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

dated as of July 31‚ 2000‚ by and among South Central Pool Supply‚ Inc.‚ the

financial institutions listed on the signature pages thereof‚ LaSalle Bank

National Association and each of the Persons identified on the signature

pages thereto as a loan party.

10.30

Consent and Amendment No. 5 to the Third Amended and Restated Credit

Agreement‚ dated as of December 28‚ 2000‚ by and among South Central

Pool Supply‚ Inc.‚ the financial institutions listed on the signature pages

thereof‚ LaSalle Bank National Association and each of the Persons

identified on the signature pages thereto as a loan party

10.31

Consent and Amendment No. 6 to the Amended and Restated Credit

Agreement‚ dated as of January 26‚ 2001‚ by and among South Central Pool

Supply‚ Inc.‚ the financial institutions listed on the signature pages thereof‚

LaSalle Bank National Association and each of the Persons identified on the

signature pages thereto as a loan party.

10.32

Asset Purchase Agreement‚ dated January 26‚ 2001‚ by and between Hughes

Supply‚ Inc.‚ Allstate Pool Supplies‚ Inc.‚ Allstate Pool Business‚ L.P. and

Superior Pool Products LLC‚ SCP Distributors LLC and SCP Acquisition

Co. LLC. (9)

21.1

Subsidiaries of the registrant.

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

_________________

†

Confidential Treatment Granted.

††

Confidential Treatment Granted for portions of Exhibit C to this Agreement.

(1

)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement

on Schedule 14A‚ filed April 8‚ 1998.

(2

)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Registration Statement No. 33-92738.

(3

)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on Form

10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31‚ 1995.

(4

)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form

10-Q for the period ended September 30‚ 1996.

(5

)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Registration Statement No. 333-40245.

(6

)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31‚ 1997.

(7

)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31‚ 1998.

(8

)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report

on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30‚ 2000.

(9

)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form

8-K filed with the SEC on February 2‚ 2001.