10-K


pool10k03.htm

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON‚ D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

X

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31‚ 2003 OR

__

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM________TO_________

COMMISSION FILE NO.: 0-26640

SCP POOL CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

36-3943363

(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)

(IRS Employer Identification No.)

109 Northpark Boulevard‚ Covington‚
Louisiana

70433-5001

(Address of principal executive
offices)

(Zip Code)

985-892-5521

(Registrant’s telephone number‚ including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock‚ par value $0.001 per share

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such
reports)‚ and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days. YES

X

NO __

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein and will not be contained‚ to the best of the Registrant’s
knowledge‚ in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act) YES

X

NO __

The aggregate market value
of voting stock and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant based on the closing sales price of the Registrant’s common stock
as of June 30‚ 2003 was approximately $809,929,151.

As of February 13, 2004 the
Registrant had 35,503,527 shares of common stock outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by
Reference

Portions of the
Registrant’s Proxy Statement to be mailed to stockholders on or about March 26, 2004
 for the Annual Meeting to be held on May 6, 2004, are incorporated by
reference in Part III.

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1. Business

General

SCP Pool Corporation (the

Company

, which may be referred to as

POOL

,

we, us

or

our)

was
incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1993 under the name SCP Holding
Corp, and in 1995 changed its name to SCP Pool Corporation. POOL, through its
subsidiaries, is the world’s largest wholesale distributor of swimming pool supplies,
equipment and related leisure products. As such, we add considerable value to the swimming
pool supply chain by purchasing products from a large number of manufacturers and then
distributing the products to a highly fragmented customer base on conditions that are more
favorable than these customers could obtain on their own.

As of February 13, 2004, we operated
198 service centers in North America and Europe.

Net sales by geographic region were
as follows (in thousands):

Property and equipment by geographic
region were as follows (in thousands):

Our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, definitive proxy statements pursuant to
Regulation 14A, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, are
made available free of charge on our website at

www.scppool.com

as soon as
reasonably practicable after we file these reports with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

Growth Strategy

We promote the growth of the swimming
pool industry through various advertising and promotional programs intended to raise
consumer awareness of the benefits and affordability of pool ownership, the ease of pool
maintenance and the many ways in which a pool may be enjoyed beyond swimming. These
programs include media advertising, website development and public relations campaigns.

We promote the growth of our
customers’ businesses through comprehensive support programs that offer promotional
tools and marketing support to help generate increased sales for our customers. Our
uniquely tailored programs include such things as personalized websites, brochures,
marketing campaigns and business development training. As a customer service, we also
provide certain retail store customers assistance with everything from site selection to
store layout and design.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1. Business

We have grown internally through
increases in base business sales of 11% in 2003, 10% in 2002 and 3% in 2001. Additionally,
since 1999, we have opened 31 new service centers, and expect to continue to open five to
ten new service centers each year. Externally, since 1999, we have grown through the
successful completion of 15 acquisitions, consisting of 77 service centers (net of service
center closings and consolidations). We intend to pursue additional strategic acquisitions
which will allow us to further penetrate existing markets and expand into new geographic
markets. For additional discussion of recent acquisitions, read Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. You should also read the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of
Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.

Operating Strategy

We operate two national distribution
networks: the SCP Distributors network (SCP) and the Superior Pool Products (SPP) network.
The SCP network consists of 141 service centers and the SPP network consists of 57
locations.

We adopted this strategy of operating
two distinct national distribution networks primarily for two reasons:

To offer our customers a choice of different  distributors  featuring  distinctive  product selections
and relationships with manufacturers; and

To increase the level of customer service provided by the service centers in each network by promoting
a healthy competition between the two networks.

Products

We offer more than 91,000 national
brand and private label products. We believe that our selection of pool equipment and
supplies, chemicals, replacement parts and complementary products is the most
comprehensive in the swimming pool industry. The products we sell can be categorized as
follows:

maintenance products such as chemicals, supplies and pool accessories;

repair and replacement parts for cleaners, filters, heaters, pumps and lights;

packaged pool kits including walls,  liners,  bracing,  filters,  heaters,  pumps and lights for in-ground
     and above-ground pools; and

pool equipment and materials for new pool construction and the remodeling of existing pools.

Maintenance  products and repair and replacement parts are  non-discretionary  in nature,  meaning that these items
must be purchased by pool owners to maintain  existing  swimming pools.  These products,  together with replacement
equipment, account for approximately 80% of our net sales.

Additionally,  since  1999,  we have increased  the  breadth of  complementary  products  we offer,
including  building  materials,  electrical  supplies,  toys and  games,  water  and light  features,  spas and spa
accessories, billiard tables, patio furniture and artificial Christmas trees.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1. Business

Customers and Marketing

We serve nearly 48,000  customers,  none of which account for more than 1% of our sales.  We primarily  serve three
types of customers:

swimming pool remodelers and builders;

retail swimming pool stores; and

swimming pool repair and service companies.

We conduct our operations through 198
service centers in North America and Europe. Our primary markets are California, Florida,
Texas and Arizona, representing approximately 51% of our net sales.

We employ a sales force dedicated to
developing and strengthening our customers’ businesses. As of
February 13, 2004, a sales force of 240 business development representatives and
198 service center managers conduct our principal selling activities.

As discussed above, our primary
marketing activities aim to raise the profile of the swimming pool industry and educate
consumers on the ease of maintenance and affordability of a swimming pool.

Employees

We employed approximately 2,450
people at February 13, 2004.

Distribution

Our service centers are located near
customer concentrations, typically in industrial, commercial or mixed-use zones. Customers
may pick up products at any service center location, or products may be delivered via our
trucks or third party carriers.

Our service centers maintain
well-stocked inventories to meet customers’ immediate needs. We utilize warehouse
management technology to optimize receiving, inventory control, picking, packing and
shipping functions.

In addition, we operate four
centralized shipping locations that redistribute products we purchase in bulk quantities
to our service centers.

Purchasing and Suppliers

We initiated a preferred vendor
program in 1999 which encourages our buyers to purchase products from a smaller number of
vendors. Our service centers are also encouraged to ensure accurate pricing and greater
discipline at the point of sale. These practices have resulted in improved margins at the
service center level.

We enjoy good relationships with our
suppliers, who generally offer competitive pricing, return policies and promotional
allowances. It is customary in the swimming pool supply industry for manufacturers to
seasonally offer extended payment terms to qualifying purchasers such as POOL. These terms
are typically available to us for pre-season or early season purchases.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1. Business

We regularly evaluate supplier
relationships and consider alternate sourcing to assure competitive cost, service and
quality standards. Our largest suppliers include Pentair Corporation, Hayward Pool
Products, Inc. and Bio-Lab, Inc. (a subsidiary of Great Lakes Chemicals, Inc,), which
accounted for approximately 16%, 11% and 7%, respectively, of the cost of products we sold
in 2003.

Competition

We are the leading wholesale
distributor in the swimming pool supply industry. We face intense competition from many
regional and local distributors in our markets and to a lesser extent, mass-market
retailers and large pool supply distributors/retailers. Some geographic markets we serve,
particularly our largest, higher density markets in Florida, California, Texas and
Arizona, are more competitive than others. Barriers to entry in the swimming pool supply
industry are relatively low.

We compete with other distributors
for rights to distribute brand-name products. If we lose or are unable to obtain these
rights, we might be materially and adversely affected. We believe that the size of our
operations allows us to compete favorably for such distribution rights.

We believe that the principal
competitive factors in swimming pool supply distribution are:

the breadth and availability of products offered;

the quality and level of customer service;

the breadth and depth of sales and marketing programs;

competitive product pricing; and,

consistency and stability of business relationships with customers.

We believe that we generally compete
favorably with respect to each of these factors.

Seasonality and Weather

See Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations”.

Environmental, Health
and Safety Regulations

Our business is subject to regulation
under local fire codes and federal, state and local environmental and health and safety
requirements including:

the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act and  other  Environmental  Protection  Agency
     regulations;

the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act and other Department of Transportation regulations; and

the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA).


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1. Business

Most of these requirements govern the
packaging, labeling, handling, transportation, storage and sale of pool chemicals. We
store chemicals at each of our service centers. The storage of these chemicals is strictly
regulated by local fire codes. In addition, we sell algaecides that are regulated as
pesticides under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and state
pesticide laws. These laws primarily relate to labeling and annual registration.

While we make considerable efforts to
ensure that we operate in substantial compliance with environmental, health and safety
requirements, we cannot assure you that we will not be determined to be out of compliance
with, or liable under, such requirements. Such an instance of noncompliance or liability
could be harmful to our operating results.

Intellectual Property

We maintain both domestic and foreign
registered trademarks primarily for our private label products and we intend to maintain
the trademark registrations important to our business operations. We also own rights to
several Internet domain names.

Item 2. Properties

We lease the POOL administrative
headquarters, which consist of approximately 33,000 square feet of an office building in
Covington, Louisiana. We own three service centers in Florida. All of our other properties
are leased for terms that expire between 2004 and 2017. In addition to minimum rental
payments, which are set at competitive rates, certain leases require reimbursement for
taxes, maintenance and insurance. Most of our leases contain renewal options, some of
which involve rent increases.

Our service centers range in size
from approximately 3,000 square feet to 100,000 square feet and consist of warehouse,
counter, display and office space. Our centralized shipping locations range in size from
22,000 square feet to 34,000 square feet.

We believe that our facilities are
well maintained, suitable for our business and occupy sufficient space to meet our
operating needs. As part of our normal business, we regularly evaluate service center
performance and may relocate a service center or consolidate two locations if a service
center is redundant in a market, under performing or otherwise deemed unsuitable.

We do not believe that any single
lease is material to our operations and alternate sites are presently available at market
rates.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 2. Properties

The table below identifies the number of
service centers by state and foreign country as of February 13, 2004:

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

In the normal course of business, we
are subject to various claims and litigation. While the outcome of any litigation is
inherently unpredictable, we do not believe that any of these matters will have a material
adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 4. Submission of
Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote
of our stockholders during the quarter ended December 31, 2003.

Part II.

Item 5. Market for the
Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters

Our common stock began trading on the
Nasdaq National Market under the symbol “POOL” in October 1995. On
February 13, 2004, there were approximately 15,700 holders of record of common
stock.

The table below sets forth the high
and low sales prices of our common stock for each quarter during the last two years. The
prices for 2002 and the first two quarters of 2003 have been adjusted to reflect the
three-for-two stock split effective September 12, 2003.

In the past, we have not declared or
paid any cash dividends on our common stock. Our Credit Agreement also restricts our
ability to pay cash dividends. For further discussion, see Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity
and Capital Resources” and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The table below summarizes as of
December 31, 2003 certain information regarding securities authorized for issuance to our
employees, officers and directors under our equity compensation plans:

For further discussion of our equity
compensation plans, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 6. Selected
Financial Data

The table below sets forth selected
financial data from the Consolidated Financial Statements. You should read this
information in conjunction with Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and accompanying Notes.

_________________

(1)

During the years 1999 to 2003, we successfully  completed 15 acquisitions  consisting of 108 service  centers,
     of which 31 were closed or consolidated into existing service centers.  For further discussion, see Item 1.

(2)

In 1999,  we  adopted  Statement  of  Position  98-5,  Reporting  on the  Costs of  Start-Up  Activities,  and
     recognized a cumulative  effect  adjustment,  net of a tax  benefit,  of $544,000,  or a net loss of $0.01 per
     diluted share.

(3)

The  approximate  51%  decrease in working  capital  from 2002 to 2003 is due to long term debt related to our
     revolving  line of credit,  which was  classified  as current at  December  31,  2003 and also to an  accounts
     receivable securitization facility we entered into in 2003 which is also classified as current.

(4)

We calculate base business sales growth by excluding the following  service  centers from the  calculation for
     15 months:  (i) service centers  acquired within the past 15 months,  (ii) service centers  consolidated  with
     acquired  locations  and (iii) new  service  centers  opened in new  markets  within the past 15 months.  Base
     business sales growth was not calculated in 2000 or 1999.

(5)

We calculate same store sales growth by excluding the following  service  centers from the  calculation for 15
     months:  (i) service centers acquired or opened within the past 15 months,  (ii) service centers  consolidated
     with acquired  locations and (iii) service centers that experience  market disruption due to their location in
     the immediate market area of those mentioned above.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview

With net sales of $1.16 billion in
2003, we are the world’s largest wholesale distributor of swimming pool supplies and
related equipment. We purchase products from a large number of manufacturers and then
distribute these goods to a customer base consisting of swimming pool remodelers and
builders, retail swimming pool stores and swimming pool repair and service companies.

We distribute more than 91,000
products through 198 service centers in the United States and six foreign countries.
Approximately 95% of our net sales are domestic. We operate two networks: the SCP
Distributors network (SCP), which consists of 141 locations and the Superior Pool Products
(SPP) network, which consists of 57 locations. We adopted this strategy to offer our
customers a choice of different distributors, each featuring distinctive product
selections and supplier relationships, and to encourage continued improvements in customer
service through healthy competition between the two networks.

As part of the distribution
businesses, we have acquired three small manufacturing facilities located in Fort Wayne,
Indiana, Bordeaux, France and Quebec, Canada, which engage in the manufacturing of
packaged pool panels, steps, liners and coping. Approximately 2% of our consolidated cost
of sales consisted of items we manufactured at these facilities and sold through our
distribution networks, which has contributed to higher gross margins and operating
expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our manufacturing sales to third
parties accounted for approximately 1% of our net sales in 2003.

We invest significant resources to
promote the growth of the swimming pool industry. Our marketing philosophy incorporates a
focus on increasing consumer awareness of the benefits of pool ownership and the
affordability and ease of maintaining a pool. Our

www.backyardescape.com

and

www.poolpronetwork.com

websites are tools we use to educate consumers and lead
prospective pool owners to our customers.

Weather is the biggest challenge we
face. In the first half of 2003, extended cool temperatures in the northern United States
and significant rainfall in the eastern portion of the country adversely affected sales in
our industry. These adverse weather conditions were partially mitigated by warm, dry
weather experienced in the western United States along with reasonable weather in the late
summer months, providing solid sales growth in the second half of 2003.

Our business is subject to
significant risks, including weather, competition, general economic conditions and other
risks detailed below in our “Cautionary Statement for Purpose of the ‘Safe
Harbor’ Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995".


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General

We sell everything necessary to
build, maintain, install and overhaul residential and small commercial swimming pools,
including:

swimming pool equipment;

parts and supplies;

chemicals;

cleaners;

packaged pools;

liners;

filters;

heaters;

pumps;

lights;

repair parts; and

other equipment.

Since 1999, we have increased the
breadth of complementary products we offer including:

building materials;

electrical supplies;

toys and games;

water features such as fountains;

spas and spa accessories.

billiard tables; and

artificial Christmas trees.

We primarily sell to:

swimming pool remodelers and builders;

retail swimming pool stores; and

swimming pool repair and service companies.

These customers are mostly small, family
owned businesses with relatively limited capital resources. We maintain a strict credit
policy. In the past, losses from customer receivables have been within our expectations.

Our expenses consist primarily of (i)
the cost of products purchased for resale and (ii) operating expenses primarily related to
labor, occupancy, freight, marketing, selling and administrative expenses. We compete for
business and may respond to competitive pressures by lowering prices in order to maintain
our market share. Such measures adversely affect our gross margins and operating results.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Beginning in the fourth quarter of
2002, we began calculating our “base business” growth. To assist in the
transition from the discussion of same store growth to base business growth, in 2003 we
provided both figures. Going forward, we will no longer provide a discussion of same store
growth, but rather we will focus on the growth of our base business, which is more
consistent with measures used by other distributors.

We calculate base business growth by
excluding the following service centers from the calculation for 15 months:

new service centers acquired within the past 15 months;

service centers consolidated with acquired service centers; and

new service centers opened in new markets in the past 15 months.

We calculate same store growth by
excluding the following service centers from the calculation for 15 months:

new service centers opened within the past 15 months;

service centers acquired within the past 15 months;

service centers consolidated with acquired service centers; and

service centers that experience  market  disruption due to their location in the immediate market areas of
     those mentioned above.

The base business calculation differs
slightly from the same store calculation because base business includes (i) new service
centers opened in existing markets and (ii) service centers affected due to their location
in the immediate market areas of newly opened or acquired locations. Additionally, we
allocate overhead expenses to the base business by considering base business net sales as
a percentage of total net sales.

The Swimming Pool Industry

We believe that the swimming pool
industry is relatively young, with room for tremendous growth. Of the approximately
69 million households in the United States that have the economic capacity and the
yard space to have a swimming pool, approximately 11% own a pool. The industry has grown
at a 4 to 5% annual rate for the past 20 years.

We believe the swimming pool industry
will continue to grow at a rate of approximately 4 to 5% annually over the next five
years, primarily because of the need to maintain the growing installed base of pools and
secondarily because of new pool installations.

The greater part of revenues in our
industry is derived from the maintenance of existing swimming pools and the repair and
replacement of the equipment that maintains those pools. Thus, the industry has generally
not been negatively affected by economic downturns, although there is no assurance that
this will continue.

The demand for new pools is driven by
the perceived benefits of pool ownership including relaxation, entertainment, family
activity, exercise, convenience and landscaping. The industry competes for new pool sales
against other discretionary consumer purchases such as kitchen and bathroom remodeling,
boats, motorcycles, recreational vehicles and vacations.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The business in our industry is
seasonal, and weather is the biggest challenge. The industry is also affected by other
factors including consumer saving and discretionary spending levels, the rate of new
housing construction and consumer attitudes toward pool products for environmental or
safety reasons.

Critical Accounting
Policies

Critical accounting policies are
those that are both important to the accurate portrayal of a company’s financial
condition and results, and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments,
often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are
inherently uncertain.

In order to prepare financial
statements that conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
(GAAP), we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our
financial statements and accompanying notes. Certain estimates are particularly sensitive
due to their significance to the financial statements and the possibility that future
events may be significantly different from our expectations.

We have identified the following six
accounting policies that require us to make the most difficult, subjective or complex
judgments in order to fairly present our consolidated financial position and results of
operations.

Allowance for Doubtful
Accounts

We maintain an allowance for doubtful
accounts for estimated losses if our customers do not make required payments. We perform
periodic credit evaluations of our customers and typically do not require collateral.
Consistent with industry practices, we require payment from our customers within 30 days
except for sales under early-buy programs for which we provide extended payment terms to
qualified customers. The extended terms require payments in equal installments in April,
May and June or May and June, depending on geographical location. In the past, credit
losses have been within our expectations.

As our business is seasonal, our
customers’ businesses are also seasonal. Sales are lowest in the winter months, and
our past due accounts receivable balance as a percentage of total receivables generally
increases during this time. We provide reserves for uncollectible accounts based on the
accounts receivable aging ranging from 0.2% for amounts currently due up to 100% for
specific accounts more than 60 days past due.

At the end of each year, we perform a
specific reserve analysis of all accounts with past due balances greater than $25,000.
Additionally, we perform a general reserve analysis on the balance of our accounts
receivables with emphasis on the remainder of the past due portion of the aging. As we
review these past due accounts, we evaluate collectibility based on a combination of
factors including:

aging statistics and trends;

customer payment history;

independent credit reports; and

discussions with customers.

During the year, we write off account
balances when we have exhausted reasonable collection efforts and determined that the
likelihood of collection is remote. Such write-offs are charged against our allowance for
doubtful accounts. In the past five years, write-offs have averaged less than 0.2% of net
sales.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

If the balance of the accounts
receivable reserve increased or decreased by 20% at December 31, 2003, pretax
income would change by approximately $0.8 million and earnings per share would change
by $0.01 per diluted share based on the number of diluted shares outstanding at
December 31, 2003.

Inventory Obsolescence
and Shrink Reserve

Product inventories represent the
largest asset on our balance sheet. Our goal is to manage our inventory such that we
minimize stock-outs to provide the highest level of service to our customers. To do this,
we maintain at each service center an adequate inventory of stock keeping units (SKUs)
with the highest sales volume. At the same time, we continuously strive to better manage
our slower moving classes of inventory, which are not as critical to our customers and
thus, inherently have lower velocity. Service centers classify products into 13 classes
based on sales at that location over the past 12 months. The table below presents a
description of these inventory classes:

Classes 1-3

fastest moving items, which represent approximately 80% of net sales at the service center

Classes 4-12

slower moving items, which we keep in stock to provide a high level of customer service

Class 13

products with no sales at a particular service center for the past twelve months or special

order products not yet delivered to the customer

There is little risk of obsolescence
for products in classes 1-3 because products in these classes turn quickly. We establish
our reserve for inventory obsolescence based on inventory classes 4-13, which we believe
represent some exposure to inventory obsolescence, with particular emphasis on SKUs with
the weakest sales over the previous 12 months. The reserve is intended to reflect the
value of inventory that we may not be able to sell at a profit. We provide a general
reserve of 5% for inventory in classes 4-13. We also provide an additional 5% reserve for
excess inventory in classes 4-12 and an additional 45% for excess class 13 inventory.
We define excess inventory as the amount of inventory on hand in excess of the previous
12 months usage on a company-wide basis.

In evaluating the adequacy of our
reserve for inventory obsolescence and shrink at the service center level, we consider a
combination of factors including:

the level of inventory in relationship  to historical  sales level by product,  including  inventory usage
     by class based on product sales at both the service center and Company levels;

changes in customer preferences;

the experience of the service center manager;

the previous inventory management performance of the service center;

geographical location; and

new product offerings.

Our reserve for inventory
obsolescence may periodically require adjustment as changes occur in the above-identified
factors.

If the balance of our inventory
reserve increased or decreased by 20% at December 31, 2003, pretax income would
change by approximately $0.6 million and earnings per share would change by $0.01 per
diluted share based on the number of diluted shares outstanding at
December 31, 2003.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue in accordance
with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 101,

Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements,

and the appropriate amendments. SAB 101 requires that four basic criteria
must be met before we can recognize revenue:

persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists;

delivery has occurred or services have been rendered;

the seller's price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and

collectibility is reasonably assured.

We record revenue when customers take
delivery of products. Customers may pick up products at any service center location, or
products may be delivered via our trucks or third party carriers. Products shipped via
third party carriers are considered delivered based on the shipping terms, which are
generally FOB shipping point.

We may offer volume rebates, which we
accrue monthly as an adjustment to net sales. We record customer returns, including those
associated with early-buy programs, as an adjustment to net sales. In the past, customer
returns have not been material.

Vendor Rebates

We account for vendor rebates in
accordance with the Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 02-16,

Accounting by a Customer
(Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor.

Many of our
arrangements with our vendors provide for us to receive a rebate of a specified amount of
consideration, payable to us when we achieve any of a number of measures, generally
related to the volume level of purchases from our vendors. We account for such rebates as
a reduction of the prices of the vendor’s products and therefore as a reduction of
inventory until we sell the product, at which time such rebates reduce cost of sales in
our income statement. Throughout the year, we estimate the amount of the rebate earned
based on our estimate of purchases to date relative to the purchase levels that mark our
progress toward earning the rebates. We continually revise these estimates to reflect
actual rebates earned based on actual purchase levels.

If market conditions were to change,
vendors may change the terms of some or all of these programs. Although such changes would
not affect the amounts we have recorded related to product already purchased, it may lower
or raise our gross margins on products we sell or revenues earned in future periods.

Income Taxes

We record deferred tax assets or
liabilities based on differences between financial reporting and tax basis of assets and
liabilities using currently enacted rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect
the differences to reverse. We record deferred tax assets to the extent we believe there
will be sufficient future taxable income to utilize those assets prior to their
expiration. Due to changing tax laws and state income tax rates, significant judgment is
required to estimate the effective tax rate expected to apply to tax differences that are
expected to reverse in the future. We must also make estimates about the sufficiency of
taxable income in future periods to offset any deductions related to deferred tax assets
currently recorded.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

As of December 31, 2003, United
States taxes were not provided on earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, as we have
invested or expect to invest the undistributed earnings indefinitely. If in the future
these earnings are repatriated to the United States, or if we determine that the earnings
will be remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax provisions may be required. Due
to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would have to be made, it is not
practicable to estimate the amount of income taxes that would have to be provided for in
such a case, if any.

We have operations in 37 states and
six foreign countries, and we are subject to tax audit in each of these jurisdictions. Tax
audits by their nature are often complex and can require several years to resolve.
Accruals for tax contingencies require us to make estimates and judgments with respect to
the ultimate outcome of a tax audit. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the
amount we paid to acquire a company over the estimated fair value of tangible assets and
identifiable intangible assets acquired, less liabilities assumed. At
December 31, 2003, our net goodwill balance was $112.1 million,
representing 25% of total assets and 57% of stockholders’ equity.

We account for goodwill under the
provisions of SFAS 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

. Under these rules, we
test goodwill for impairment annually or at any other time when impairment indicators
exist.

In October 2003, we performed our
annual goodwill impairment test, which requires comparison of our estimated fair value to
our book value, including goodwill. As a result of this test, we believe the goodwill on
our balance sheet is not impaired.

If circumstances change or events
occur to indicate that our fair market value has fallen below book value, we will compare
the estimated fair value of the goodwill to its book value. If the book value of goodwill
exceeds the estimated fair value of goodwill, we will recognize the difference as an
impairment loss in operating income.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Results of Operations

The table below summarizes
information derived from our Consolidated Statements of Income expressed as a percentage
of net sales for the past three years:

Note:
Due to rounding, percentages may not add to total income before income taxes.

The following discussion of
consolidated operating results includes the operating results from acquisitions in 2003,
2002 and 2001. We accounted for these acquisitions using the purchase method of
accounting, and we have included the results of operations in our consolidated results
since the respective acquisition dates.

2003 compared to 2002

(Unaudited)

Base Business

Acquired and Consolidated

Total

(In thousands)

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,







Net
      sales

$

1,003,403

$

900,988

$

152,429

$

82,258

$

1,155,832

$

983,246

Gross
      profit

266,686

236,781

48,452

18,751

315,138

255,532

Gross
      margin

26.6

%

26.3

%

31.8

%

22.8

%

27.3

%

26.0

%

Selling
      and operating expenses

186,820

164,596

40,292

18,249

227,112

182,845

Expenses
      as a % of net sales

18.6

%

18.3

%

26.4

%

22.2

%

19.6

%

18.6

%

Operating
      income

79,866

72,185

8,160


88,026

72,687

Operating income
      margin

8.0

%

8.0

%

5.4

%

0.6

%

7.6

%

7.4

%


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Net sales increased $172.6 million,
or 18%, to $1.16 billion in 2003 from $983.2 million in 2002. Base business
growth of 11% contributed $102.4 million to the increase, while acquired service
centers and service centers consolidated with acquired locations accounted for the
remaining increase. The increase in base business sales is primarily due to the following:

a larger installed base of swimming pools resulting in increased sales of non-discretionary products;

the continued successful execution of our sales, marketing and service programs; and

an increase in complementary product sales.

Gross profit increased $59.6 million,
or 23%, to $315.1 million in 2003 from $255.5 million in 2002. This increase was
primarily due to the increase in net sales. Base business gross profit growth of 13%
contributed $29.9 million to the increase, while acquired service centers and service
centers consolidated with acquired locations accounted for the remaining increase.

Gross profit as a percentage of net
sales (gross margin) increased to 27.3% in 2003 compared to 26.0% in 2002. Base business
gross margin increased 30 basis points to 26.6% in 2003 from 26.3% in 2002 primarily due
to improved selling and purchasing practices. The remaining increase in gross margin is
attributable to the business acquired in our August 2002 Fort Wayne acquisition, including
the retention of margins from the manufacturing business.

Operating expenses increased $44.3
million, or 24%, to $227.1 million in 2003 from $182.8 million in 2002.
Operating expenses relating to the base business contributed $22.2 million to this
increase, while acquired service centers and locations consolidated with acquired service
centers accounted for the remaining increase. Operating expenses as a percentage of net
sales increased to 19.6% in 2003 from 18.6% in 2002, while base business operating
expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 18.6% in 2003 from 18.3% in 2002. The
increase in base business operating expenses is primarily due to our continued investment
in our sales and marketing programs.

Interest expense decreased
$0.3 million to $4.7 million in 2003 from $5.0 million in 2002. Although
average debt outstanding was higher in 2003, our effective interest rate decreased to 2.6%
in 2003 from 3.7% in 2002, primarily due to an accounts receivable securitization facility
we instituted in the first quarter of 2003, which provides us with a lower cost form of
financing.

Income taxes increased
$6.1 million to $32.5 million for 2003 compared to $26.4 million for 2002,
primarily due to the $15.6 million increase in income before income taxes. Our
effective income tax rate remained unchanged at 39% throughout 2002 and 2003.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

2002 compared to 2001

(Unaudited)

Base Business

Acquired and Consolidated

Total

(In thousands)

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,







Net
      sales

$

908,822

$

824,340

$

74,424

$

29,894

$

983,246

$

854,234

Gross
      profit

236,027

213,238

19,505

7,636

255,532

220,874

Gross
      margin

26.0

%

25.9

%

26.2

%

25.5

%

26.0

%

25.9

%

Selling
      and operating expenses

162,508

147,523

20,337

7,304

182,845

154,827

Expenses
      as a % of net sales

17.9

%

17.9

%

27.3

%

24.4

%

18.6

%

18.1

%

Operating
      income

73,519

65,715

(832)


72,687

66,047

Operating income
      margin

8.1

%

8.0

%

(1.1)

%

1.1

%

7.4

%

7.7

%

Note: 2001 excludes goodwill amortization

Net sales increased
$129.0 million, or 15%, to $983.2 million in 2002 from $854.2 million in
2001. Base business growth of 10% contributed $84.5 million to the increase, while
acquired service centers (primarily the Fort Wayne Acquisition in August 2002 and
secondarily part of the Hughes Acquisition in January 2001) and service centers
consolidated with acquired locations accounted for the remaining increase. Same store
sales growth was also 10% in 2002. The increase in base business sales is primarily due to
the following:

more favorable weather conditions in 2002;

a larger installed base of swimming pools resulting in increased sales of non-discretionary products; and

the continued successful execution of our sales, marketing and service programs.

Gross  profit  increased  $34.6 million,  or 16%,  to  $255.5 million  in 2002 from  $220.9 million  in 2001.  This
increase was primarily due to the increase in net sales.  Gross margin  remained  relatively  unchanged at 26.0% in
2002 compared to 25.9% in 2001.  Base  business  gross profit  contributed  $22.8 million  to the  increase,  while
acquired  service  centers and service centers  consolidated  with acquired  locations  accounted for the remaining
increase.

Excluding goodwill amortization in 2001, operating expenses increased  $28.0 million,  or 18%, to $182.8 million in
2002 from  $154.8 million in 2001.  Operating expenses relating to the base business  contributed  $15.0 million to
this increase,  while acquired service centers and locations  consolidated  with acquired service centers accounted
for the remaining  increase.  Excluding  goodwill  amortization in 2001,  operating expenses as a percentage of net
sales  increased  to 18.6% in 2002 from 18.1% in 2001,  primarily  due to the  dilutive  impact of newly opened and
acquired  service  centers.  Base business  operating  expenses as a percentage of net sales remained  unchanged at
17.9% in 2002 and 2001.

Interest expense decreased  $0.3 million to $5.0 million in 2002 from  $5.3 million in 2001.  Although average debt
outstanding was higher in 2002, our effective  interest rate decreased to 3.7% in 2002 from 5.0% in 2001,  which is
consistent with the overall decline in interest rates in 2002.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Income taxes increased  $3.3 million to $26.4 million  for 2002 compared to $23.1 million  for 2001,  primarily due
to the  $9.1 million  increase in income before income taxes.  In the first quarter of 2002,  our effective  income
tax rate  decreased  to 39.0% from 39.5% as a result of changes in our state income tax mix, and income tax expense
in 2002 was booked at an effective rate of 39.0%.

Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations

Our business is highly seasonal,  and weather is the principal  external factor  affecting our business.  The table
below presents some of the possible effects resulting from various weather conditions:

Weather

Possible Effects

Hot and dry

•

Increased purchases of chemicals and supplies

for existing swimming pools

•

Increased purchases of above-ground pools

Unseasonably cool weather or

•

Fewer pool installations

extraordinary amounts of rain

•

Decreased purchases of chemicals and supplies

•

Decreased purchases of impulse items such as

above-ground pools and accessories

Unseasonably early warming trends

•

A longer pool season, thus increasing our sales

(primarily in the northern half of the US)

Unseasonably late warming trends

•

A shorter pool season, thus decreasing our sales

(primarily in the northern half of the US)

For example, in the first half of
2003 the eastern United States experienced significantly higher rainfall, which adversely
impacted new pool construction. Extended cool and mild temperatures in the northern half
of the United States delayed the use of pools and adversely impacted the sale of swimming
pool maintenance and supply items. These adverse weather conditions were partially
mitigated by the warm and dry weather in the western portion of the country. Reasonable
weather in the late summer months provided for solid sales growth in the second half of
2003.

In general, sales and operating
income are highest during the second and third quarters, which represent the peak months
of swimming pool use and installation. Sales are substantially lower during the first and
fourth quarters when we may incur net losses.

In 2003, approximately 67% of net
sales were generated in the second and third quarters of the year, and approximately 100%
of operating income was generated in that same period.

We typically experience a build-up of
product inventories and accounts payable during the winter months in anticipation of the
peak selling season. Excluding borrowings to finance acquisitions and share repurchases,
our peak borrowing usually occurs during the second quarter, primarily because extended
payment terms offered by our suppliers typically are payable in April, May and June, while
our peak accounts receivable collections typically occur in June, July and August.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

We expect that our quarterly results
of operations will continue to fluctuate depending on the timing and amount of revenue
contributed by new and acquired service centers. We attempt to open new service centers at
the end of the fourth quarter or the first quarter of the subsequent year to take
advantage of preseason sales programs and the following peak selling season.

The following table presents certain
unaudited quarterly data for 2003 and 2002. In our opinion, this information reflects all
normal and recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of this
data. Due to the seasonal nature of the swimming pool industry, the results of any one or
more quarters are not necessarily a good indication of results for an entire fiscal year
or of continuing trends.

(Unaudited)

QUARTER

(in thousands)



First

Second

Third

Fourth

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Net sales

$

196,388

$

431,885

$

337,611

$

189,948

$

171,354

$

364,088

$

288,799

$

159,005

Gross profit

52,523

120,862

92,157

49,596

43,502

96,695

75,069

40,266

Operating income (loss)

3,520

57,189

31,220

(3,903

)

4,331

48,375

24,447

(4,466

)

Net sales as a % of annual net sales


%


%


%


%


%


%


%


%

Gross profit as a % of annual gross profit


%


%


%


%


%


%


%


%

Operating income (loss) as a % of

annual operating income


%


%


%

(4

)%


%


%


%

(6

)%

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Liquidity is defined as the ability
to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet the current need for cash. We assess our
liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating activities,
taking into consideration the seasonal nature of our business. Significant factors which
could affect liquidity include the following:

the adequacy of available bank lines of credit;

the ability to attract long-term capital with satisfactory terms;

cash flows generated from operating activities;

acquisitions;

the timing and extent of share repurchases; and

capital expenditures.

Our primary capital needs are
seasonal working capital obligations and other general corporate purposes, including
acquisitions and share repurchases. Our primary sources of working capital are cash from
operations supplemented by bank borrowings. In the past, borrowings and cash from
operations have been sufficient to support our growth and finance acquisitions.

Our credit agreement, which matures
on November 27, 2004, allows us to borrow under a revolving line of credit (the Revolving
Credit Facility). In November 2003, we decreased our borrowing capacity under the
Revolving Credit Facility to $130.0 million from $150.0 million.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

During the twelve months ended
December 31, 2003, we made net payments of $86.3 million on the Revolving
Credit Facility. We also made a $2.1 million payment to pay off an outstanding line of
credit we acquired in connection with the Quebec Acquisition. At
December 31, 2003, there was $38.9 million outstanding and
$55.8 million available for borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility, subject to
borrowing base availability supported primarily by product inventories and to a lesser
extent by trade accounts receivable. We intend to replace the Revolving Credit Facility
with a new facility prior to the maturity date in November, 2004.

The average effective interest rate
of the Revolving Credit Facility was approximately 3.2% for the twelve month period ended
December 31, 2003. Interest on borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility
may be paid at either of the following rates, in each case depending on our leverage
ratio:

the  agent’s  corporate  base rate or the federal  funds rate plus 0.5%,  whichever  is higher,  plus a margin
     ranging from 0.125% to 0.375%, or

the current Eurodollar Rate plus a margin ranging from 1.125% to 1.750%.

Substantially all of our assets, including capital stock of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, secure our obligations
under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility has numerous restrictive covenants, which
require that we maintain a minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage and which also restrict our ability to pay
dividends. As of December 31, 2003, we were in compliance with all covenants and financial ratio requirements.

In the first quarter of 2003, we closed an accounts receivable securitization facility (the Receivables Facility)
with a peak seasonal borrowing capacity of up to $90.0 million.  The Receivables Facility provides for the true
sale of certain of our receivables as they are created to a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary.  This
subsidiary sells an undivided security interest in the receivables to an unrelated commercial paper conduit.  We
account for the Receivables Facility on-balance sheet because we have maintained effective control of the
receivables.  Accordingly, the receivables and the related debt are included in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet.  We employed this arrangement because it provides us with a lower cost form of financing. At
December 31, 2003, there was $42.4 million outstanding under the Receivables Facility, which represented the
maximum available for borrowing at that date.  The average effective interest rate of the Receivables Facility
was approximately 1.8% for the year ended December 31, 2003.  The Receivables Facility expires in March 2004,
and we intend to replace the Receivables Facility with a new facility at such time.

At  December 31, 2003,  our  contractual  obligations  of long-term  debt and operating  leases were as follows (in
thousands):


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Net cash provided by operating
activities increased $19.9 million to $78.1 million in 2003 from
$58.2 million in 2002. This increase is due to an increase in net income and improved
working capital management. We continue to better manage our inventory, and generally
improved discipline on working capital. We anticipate cash flow from operations to
approximate net income in 2004. Excluding the effects of acquisitions, if any, we do not
expect our cash used in investing activities to change materially in 2004.

In 2002, net cash provided by
operating activities increased $31.4 million to $58.2 million from
$26.8 million in 2001, primarily due to the decrease in product inventories,
partially offset by the decrease in accounts payable.

Initially, acquisitions are financed
through increased bank borrowings, and those borrowings are then reduced with cash flows
from operations. The same principle applies for funds used for share repurchases and
capital expenditures.

We believe we have adequate
availability of capital to fund present operations and anticipated growth, including
expansion in existing and targeted market areas. We continually evaluate potential
acquisitions and hold discussions with acquisition candidates. If suitable acquisition
opportunities or working capital needs arise that would require additional financing, we
believe that our financial position and earnings history provide a solid base for
obtaining additional financing resources at competitive rates and terms. Additionally, we
may issue common or preferred stock to raise funds.

Accounts Receivable and
the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Accounts receivable increased
$13.7 million, or 20%, to $83.8 million at December 31, 2003, compared
to $70.1 million at December 31, 2002. Acquisitions in 2003 represented
$6.2 million of the balance at December 31, 2003, and accounts receivable grew by 11%, net
of acquisitions. This increase is consistent with the increase in base business net sales
between years.

The allowance for doubtful accounts
increased to $3.8 million at December 31, 2003 from $3.3 million at
December 31, 2002. The allowance represented 54% of the accounts receivable
greater than 60 days past due in December 2003 compared to 48% in December 2002.

Product Inventories and
the Reserve for Shrink and Obsolescence

Product inventories increased
$10.2 million, or 6%, to $193.9 million at December 31, 2003 from
$183.7 million at December 31, 2002. Inventory at locations acquired during
2003 was approximately $10.6 million at December 31, 2003.

At December 31, 2003, the inventory
reserve of $3.1 million was unchanged from the prior year. The slowest moving class of
inventory decreased approximately $0.5 million from 2002 to 2003.

Share Repurchase Program

As part of our share repurchase
program, in 2003 we purchased 192,300 shares of our common stock in the open market at an
average price of $17.35 per share. We subsequently canceled these shares.

The impact of our common stock
repurchases had the effect of reducing diluted weighted average shares outstanding by
approximately 0.2 million shares for the year ended December 31, 2003.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

On February 12

th

and

th

, 2004, we purchased 36,500 shares at an average price of $32.18. On
February 13, 2004, $34.0 million remained available under the authorization of our
Board of Directors for future share repurchases. We intend to continue to repurchase
shares on the open market from time to time, depending on market conditions. We may use
cash flows from operations to fund these purchases, or we may incur additional debt.

Item 7a. Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

We are exposed to market risks,
including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. The adverse effects of potential
changes in these market risks are discussed below. The following discussion does not
consider the effects of the reduced level of overall economic activity that could exist
following such changes. Further, in the event of changes of such magnitude, we would
likely take actions to mitigate our exposure to such changes.

Interest Rate Risk

Our earnings are exposed to changes
in short-term interest rates because of the variable interest rates on our long-term debt.
To mitigate this risk, in May 2003 we entered into an interest swap agreement with
variable notional amounts. The swap became effective September 30, 2003 and expires May
28, 2004. If (i) the variable rates on our Revolving Credit Facility increased or
decreased 1.0% from the rate at December 31, 2003; and (ii) we borrowed the
maximum amount available under the Revolving Credit Facility ($130.0 million) and the
Receivables Facility ($90.0 million) for all of 2004, then our pretax income would change
by approximately $2.0 million and earnings per share would change by $0.03 per
diluted share based on the number of diluted shares outstanding at
December 31, 2003. The fair value of our Revolving Credit Facility is not
affected by changes in market interest rates.

Foreign Exchange Risk

We have wholly-owned subsidiaries in
Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, France, Portugal and Spain. In the past, we have not
hedged our foreign currency exposure, and fluctuations in exchange rates have not
materially affected our operating results. Future changes in exchange rates may positively
or negatively impact our revenues, operating expenses and earnings. Due to the size of our
foreign operations, however, we do not anticipate that exposure to foreign currency rate
fluctuations will be material in 2004.

Functional Currencies

Canada

Canadian Dollar

Mexico

Peso

United Kingdom

British Pound

France

Eurodollar

Portugal

Eurodollar

Spain

Eurodollar


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Cautionary  Statement for Purpose of the "Safe Harbor" Provisions of the Private  Securities  Litigation Reform Act
of 1995

Our disclosure and analysis in this
report contains forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties. Our
forward-looking statements express our current expectations or forecasts of possible
future results or events, including projections of future performance, statements of
management’s plans and objectives, future contracts, and forecasts of trends and
other matters. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate
strictly to historic or current facts and often use words such as “anticipate”,
“estimate”, “expect”, “believe,” “will likely
result,” “outlook,” “project” and other words and expressions of
similar meaning. No assurance can be given that the results in any forward-looking
statements will be achieved and actual results could be affected by one or more factors,
which could cause them to differ materially. For these statements, we claim the protection
of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act.

Certain factors that may affect our
business and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any
forward-looking statements include the following:

Weather.

Weather is the principal external factor affecting our business. For example,
          unseasonably late warming trends can decrease the length of the pool season and
          unseasonably cool weather or extraordinary rainfall during the peak season can
          decrease swimming pool use, installation and maintenance.

Seasonality.

Our business is highly seasonal. In 2003, approximately 66% of
          our net sales were generated in the second and third quarters of the year, which
          represent the peak months of swimming pool use, installation, remodeling and
          repair, and 100% of our operating income was generated in the same period. Our
          sales are substantially lower during the first and fourth quarters of the year,
          when we may incur net losses.

Competition.

We face competition from both outside our industry with sellers of other leisure
          product alternatives, such as boats and motor homes, and from within our
          industry with various regional and local distributors, several companies that
          distribute swimming pool supplies on a national basis and, to a lesser extent,
          mass market retailers and large pool supply retailers. New competitors may
          emerge as there are low barriers to entry in our industry. Our largest
          geographic markets that we service, such as California, Texas and Florida, also
          tend to be more competitive than others.

General Economic
Conditions.

Our industry is somewhat dependent upon overall economic and
market conditions. For example, in economic downturns, the demand for swimming pool or
leisure related products may decline as discretionary consumer spending, new housing
construction and swimming pool construction decline.

Environmental, Health,
Transportation and Safety Regulation.

We are subject to regulation under
federal, state and local environmental, health, transportation and safety requirements,
which govern such things as packaging, labeling, handling, transportation, storage and
sale of pool chemicals and other products. Failure to comply with these laws and
regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties
or the imposition of injunctive relief. Moreover, compliance with such laws and
regulations in the future could prove to be costly, and there can be no assurance that we
will not incur such costs in material amounts. These laws and regulations have changed
substantially and rapidly over the last 20 years, and we anticipate that there will be
continuing changes. The clear trend in environmental, health, transportation and safety
regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that impact the
environment, such as the use and handling of chemical substances, and protect the health
and safety of individuals. Increasingly, strict restrictions and limitations have resulted
in increased operating costs for us and other businesses throughout the United States, and
it is possible that the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations will continue
to increase. We will attempt to anticipate future regulatory requirements that might be
imposed and to plan accordingly in order to remain in compliance with changing regulations
and to minimize the costs of such compliance.

Fire, Safety and Casualty.

We store chemicals at our service centers and central stocking locations,
including certain combustible, oxidizing compounds. A fire, explosion or flood affecting
one of our facilities could give rise to fire, safety and casualty losses and related
liability claims.

Growth.

We have experienced substantial growth in recent years through acquisitions and
          the opening of new locations that have increased our size, scope and geographic
          distribution. While we contemplate continued growth through acquisitions and
          internal expansion, no assurance can be made as to our ability to penetrate new
          markets; identify appropriate acquisition candidates; complete acquisitions on
          satisfactory terms and successfully integrate


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Cautionary  Statement for Purpose of the "Safe Harbor" Provisions of the Private  Securities  Litigation Reform Act
of 1995 (continued)

acquired businesses; obtain
financing; generate sufficient cash flows to support expansion plans and general operating
activities; maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; and identify and
divest assets which do not continue to create value consistent with our objectives.

International
Operations

. During 2003, international sales accounted for approximately 5%
of our total net sales. We anticipate that future international sales will increase and
may account for a more significant percentage of our sales. Risks associated with our
international operations include political and economic instability, export controls,
foreign government tax policies and regulatory requirements, United States and foreign
government policy changes, convertibility and transferability of international currencies,
and restrictions on the movement of funds or goods.

Key Personnel.

Out future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our
executive officers and other key management and personnel, and on our ability to continue
to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. The loss of one or more of our key
employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

Supplier
Relationships.

We presently purchase product from over 1,200 manufacturers.
Our inability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

Marketing.

Our inability to sufficiently develop effective advertising, marketing and
          promotional programs to succeed in a weakened national economy and an
          increasingly competitive marketplace in which we also compete with other luxury
          product alternatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In
          addition, changes in public and consumer tastes could also have an effect on our
          business.

Laws and
Regulations.

Changes in laws and regulations, including (i) healthcare
reform initiatives in the United States at the state and federal level and in other
countries; (ii) tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations in the
United States and certain foreign countries; and (iii) changes in accounting standards,
could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Other Factors.

Other factors that may impact our business include acts of war or terrorist incidents,
future litigation, governmental proceedings, and labor relations and disputes.

The foregoing factors are not
exhaustive and new factors may emerge which impact our business. It is impossible for us
to predict all such factors. Therefore, forward-looking statements should not be relied
upon as a prediction of actual future results. We cannot guarantee that any future event
or result will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and
assumptions. Should additional risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying
assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from those
anticipated. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking
statements.

Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

See the attached Consolidated
Financial Statements and related Notes (pages F-1 through F-24).

Item 9.           Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Item 9A. Controls and
Procedures

The term “disclosure controls
and procedures” is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the Act). The rules refer to the controls and other procedures
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports that we file or
submit under the Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified. As of December 31, 2003, management, including the CEO and
CFO, performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our
disclosure controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, management, including the
CEO and CFO, concluded that as of December 31, 2003, our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective at ensuring that material information related to us or our
consolidated subsidiaries is made known to them and is disclosed on a timely basis in our
reports filed under the Act.

We maintain a system of internal
control over financial reporting that is designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Based on the most recent evaluation, we have concluded that
no significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting occurred during
the last fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Part III.

Item 10. Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated by reference to the
Company’s 2004 Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC.

Item 11. Executive
Compensation

Incorporated by reference to the
Company’s 2004 Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC.

Item 12. Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated by reference to the
Company’s 2004 Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC.

Item 13. Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated by reference to the
Company’s 2004 Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC.

Item 14. Principal
Accountant Fees and Services

Incorporated by reference to the
Company’s 2004 Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part IV.

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

a.

1.

The Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 and set forth on pages

F-1 through F-24.

2.

Financial Statement Schedules. Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or are not required,

or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial

Statements or Notes.

3.

The exhibits listed in the Index to the Exhibits.

b.

Reports on Form 8-K.

On September 18, 2003, we furnished a Form 8-K, Item 9, Regulation FD Disclosure,

announcing recent acquisitions.

On October 22, 2003, we furnished a Form 8-K, Item 12, Results of Operations and,

Financial Condition, announcing our third quarter earnings results.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

INDEX TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Consolidated Financial
Statements

Report of Independent Auditors

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Income

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-7

F-1

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Report of Independent
Auditors

The Board of Directors

SCP Pool Corporation

We have audited the consolidated
balance sheets of SCP Pool Corporation as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15a2. These
financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule
based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of SCP Pool Corporation at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and
the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly
in all material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements,
effective January 1, 2002 the Company changed its method of accounting for goodwill.

/S/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

New Orleans, Louisiana

February 20,

F-2

SCP POOL CORPORATION

The
accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-3

SCP POOL
CORPORATION

The accompanying
Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-4

SCP POOL CORPORATION

The
accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-5

SCP POOL CORPORATION

The accompanying
Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-6

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1. Organization and
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business

As of December 31, 2003,
SCP Pool Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (the

Company

, which may be
referred to as

POOL

,

we, us

or

our

), maintained 197 service centers
in North America and Europe from which we sell swimming pool equipment, parts and supplies
to pool builders, retail stores and service companies. We distribute products through two
national networks: The SCP Distributors network (SCP) and the Superior Pool Products (SPP)
network.

Net sales by geographic region were
as follows (in thousands):

Property and equipment by geographic
region were as follows (in thousands):

Basis of Presentation
and Principles of Consolidation

We prepared the consolidated
financial statements following accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States (GAAP) and the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The
financial statements include all normal and recurring adjustments that are necessary for a
fair presentation of our financial position and operating results.

The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of SCP Pool Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We
eliminated all significant intercompany accounts and transactions.

Use of Estimates

In order to prepare financial
statements that conform to GAAP, we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. Our most significant
estimates are those relating to the allowance for doubtful accounts and the inventory
reserve. We continually review our estimates and make adjustments as necessary, but actual
results could be significantly different from what we expected when we made these
estimates.

Segment Reporting

Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 131,

Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,

establishes standards for the way
that public companies report information about operating segments in annual financial
statements and establishes standards for related disclosures about products and services,
geographic areas and major customers

.

We have reviewed SFAS 131 and determined that
we have a single reportable segment.

F-7

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1. Organization and
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Seasonality and Weather

Our business is highly seasonal, and
weather is the principal external factor affecting our business. The table below presents
some of the possible effects resulting from various weather conditions:

Weather

Possible Effects

Hot and dry

•

Increased purchases of chemicals and supplies

for existing swimming pools

•

Increased purchases of above-ground pools

Unseasonably cool weather or

•

Fewer pool installations

extraordinary amounts of rain

•

Decreased purchases of chemicals and supplies

•

Decreased purchases of impulse items such as

above-ground pools and accessories

Unseasonably early warming trends

•

A longer pool season, thus increasing our sales

(primarily in the northern half of the US)

Unseasonably late warming trends

•

A shorter pool season, thus decreasing our sales

(primarily in the northern half of the US)

In general, sales and net income are
highest during the second and third quarters, which represent the peak months of swimming
pool use and installation. Sales are substantially lower during the first and fourth
quarters when we may incur net losses. For further discussion, see Item 7,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.

Earnings Per Share

In accordance with SFAS 128,

Earnings per Share

, we calculate basic earnings per share by dividing net income by
the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share
includes the dilutive effects of stock options and convertible notes.

Financial Instruments

The carrying values of cash,
receivables, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to the
short maturity of those instruments. The carrying amount of long-term debt approximates
fair value as it bears interest at variable rates.

Cash Equivalents

We consider all highly liquid
investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash
equivalents.

F-8

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1. Organization and
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Credit Risk and
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts
for estimated losses if our customers do not make required payments. We perform periodic
credit evaluations of our customers and we typically do not require collateral. Consistent
with industry practices, we require payment from our customers within 30 days except for sales under
early-buy programs for which we provide extended payment terms to qualified customers. In
the past, credit losses have been within our expectations.

For additional discussion of the
allowance for doubtful accounts, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Product Inventories and
Reserve for Inventory Obsolescence and Shrink

Product inventories consist primarily
of goods we purchase from manufacturers and intend to sell to our customers. We record
inventory at the lower of cost, using the average cost method, or market. We establish our
reserve for inventory obsolescence based on inventory turns by category with particular
emphasis on SKUs with the weakest sales over the previous 12 months. The reserve is
intended to reflect the value of inventory that we may not be able to sell at a profit.

In evaluating the adequacy of our
reserve for inventory obsolescence and shrink at the service center level, we consider a
combination of factors including:

the level of inventory in  relationship  to  historical  sales by product,  including  inventory  usage by
     class based on product sales at both the service center and Company levels;

changes in customer preferences;

the experience of the service center manager;

the previous inventory management performance of the service center;

geographical location; and

new product offerings.

Our reserve for inventory
obsolescence may periodically require adjustment as changes occur in the above-identified
factors.

We account for vendor rebates in
accordance with the Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 02-16,

Accounting by a Customer
(Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor.

Many of our
arrangements with our vendors provide for us to receive a rebate of a specified amount of
consideration, payable to us when we achieve any of a number of measures, generally
related to the volume level of purchases from our vendors. We account for such rebates as
a reduction of the prices of the vendor’s products and therefore as a reduction of
inventory until we sell the product, at which time such rebates reduce cost of sales in
our income statement. Throughout the year, we estimate the amount of the rebate earned
based on our estimate of purchases to date relati ve to the purchase levels that mark our
progress toward earning the rebates. We continually revise these estimates to reflect
actual rebates earned based on actual purchase levels.

For additional discussion of product
inventories and the inventory reserve, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

F-9

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1. Organization and
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at
cost. We depreciate property and equipment on a straight-line basis over the following
estimated useful lives:

Buildings

40 years

Leasehold improvements

the life of the lease, including any expected renewals

Autos and trucks

3 years

Machinery and equipment

10 years

Computer equipment

3 - 5 years

Furniture and fixtures

10 years

The table below presents depreciation
expense for the past three years (in thousands):




$

5,523

$

4,203

$

3,265

Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the excess of the
amount we paid to acquire a company over the estimated fair value of tangible assets and
identifiable intangible assets acquired, less liabilities assumed. We account for goodwill under the provisions of SFAS 142,

Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets

. In accordance with these rules, we test goodwill for impairment
annually or at any other time when impairment indicators exist. Under the provisions of
SFAS 142, we amortize our intangible assets consisting of non-compete agreements and a
distribution agreement because they have finite lives.

For additional discussion of goodwill
and other intangible assets, see Note 2 to the Financial Statements.

Self Insurance

We retain certain self-insurance
risks for both health benefits and property and casualty insurance programs. We have
limited our exposure by maintaining excess and aggregate liability coverage. We establish
self-insurance reserves based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not
reported. The estimates are based on information provided to us by the claims
administrators.

Advertising Costs

We expense advertising costs when
incurred. The table below presents advertising expense for the past three years (in
thousands):




$

7,106

$

4,927

$

3,194

Income Taxes

We record deferred tax assets or
liabilities based on differences between financial reporting and tax basis of assets and
liabilities using currently enacted rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect
the differences to reverse. We record deferred tax assets to the extent we believe there
will be sufficient future taxable income to utilize those assets prior to their
expiration. Due to changing tax laws and state income tax rates, significant judgment is
required to estimate the effective tax rate expected to apply to tax differences that are
expected to reverse in the future.

F-10

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1. Organization and
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

For additional discussion of income
taxes, see Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Stock Compensation
Arrangements

Under the provisions of SFAS 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

, companies may account for employee stock
options using either (i) SFAS 123‘s fair value method or (ii) the intrinsic value
method provided by APB 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.

Under the SFAS
123 fair value method, companies recognize compensation expense related to employee stock
options based on the fair value of the options on the grant date as estimated by an option
pricing model. The intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25 requires recognition of
compensation expense when the exercise price of the granted options is less than the
stock’s market price on the grant date.

We account for our employee stock
options under the intrinsic value method described by APB 25. Accordingly, we do not
record compensation expense for options issued with an exercise price equal to the
stock’s market price on the grant date. The table below presents compensation expense
for options granted below market price (in thousands):




$


$


$


If we had accounted for our employee
stock options using the fair value method described in SFAS 123, our net income and
earnings per share would have been reduced to the pro-forma amounts below (in thousands,
except per share data):

F-11

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1. Organization and
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

For purposes of pro-forma
disclosures, the estimated fair value of employee options is ratably expensed over the
options’ vesting period. We estimated the fair value of these options at the grant
date using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions:

December 31,




Risk-free interest rate

3.38

%

4.98

%

5.00

%

Expected dividend yield

—

—

—

Expected volatility

0.33

0.35

0.28

Weighted average expected life

7.0

years

8.0

years

7.5

years

The Black-Scholes option valuation
model was developed to estimate the fair value of traded options that have no vesting
restrictions and are fully transferable. Additionally, option valuation models require the
input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. In
our opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of
the fair value of our employee stock options because:

the  characteristics  of our employee stock options are significantly  different from those of traded options;
     and

changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting  Bulletin (SAB) 101,

Revenue  Recognition in Financial
Statements

,  and the  appropriate  amendments.  SAB 101 requires that four basic criteria must be met before we can
recognize revenue:

persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists;

delivery has occurred or services have been rendered;

the seller's price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and

collectibility is reasonably assured.

We record revenue when customers take
delivery of products. Customers may pick up products at any service center location, or
products may be delivered via our trucks or third party carriers. Products shipped via
third party carriers are considered delivered based on the shipping terms, which are
generally FOB shipping point.

Derivatives and Hedging
Activities

We recognize all derivatives at fair
value on the balance sheet. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of
derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in other comprehensive income
until the hedged item is recognized in earnings, or until it becomes unlikely that the
hedged transaction will occur. The ineffective portion of a derivative’s change in
fair value is immediately recognized in earnings.

In May 2003, we entered into an
interest rate swap agreement as a cash flow hedge to reduce our exposure to fluctuations
in interest rates. Any difference paid or received on the interest rate swap is recognized
as an adjustment to interest expense over the life of the swap. The swap became effective
September 30, 2003 and will terminate on May 28, 2004.

F-12

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1. Organization and
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Shipping and Handling
Costs

We include shipping and handling fees
billed to customers in net sales, and we record shipping and handling costs associated
with inbound freight as cost of sales. The table below presents shipping and handling
costs associated with outbound freight, which we include in selling, general and
administrative expenses (in thousands):




$

19,908

$

15,703

$

14,724

Reclassifications

We reclassified certain amounts in
our 2002 and 2001 financial statements to conform to the current presentation. These
reclassifications had no effect on net income or earnings per share as previously reported
for those years.

2. Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets

In October 2003, we performed our
annual goodwill impairment test, which requires comparison of our Company’s estimated
fair value to the book value, including goodwill. As a result of this test, we believe the
goodwill on our balance sheet is not impaired.

Through December 31, 2001,
we amortized goodwill on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from 20-40 years.

We amortize non-compete agreements
and a distribution agreement using the straight-line method over the contractual term of
the agreement.

The changes in the carrying amount of
goodwill are as follows (in thousands):

Other intangible amortization expense was $3.1 million in 2003 and $2.3 million in
2002. The table below presents estimated amortization expense for other intangible assets
for the next five years (in thousands):


$

3,836


3,501


2,933


2,588


1,527

F-13

SCP POOL CORPORATION

2. Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets (continued)

The table below provides a
reconciliation of reported net income and earnings per share to adjusted net income and
earnings per share as if the non-amortization provisions of SFAS 142 had been applied
beginning January 1, 2001 (in thousands, except per share data):

3. Acquisitions

2003 Acquisitions

In May 2003, we acquired the capital
stock of Les Industries R.P. Inc. (the Quebec Acquisition), a distributor and manufacturer
of swimming pool products operating one service center in Quebec, Canada. In connection
with the Quebec Acquisition, we recorded the cost of a non-compete agreement totaling
$0.7 million, which we are amortizing using the straight-line method over the
agreement’s six-year contractual life. We also recorded approximately $1.3 million of
goodwill in connection with the acquisition, none of which we expect will be deductible for tax purposes.

In August 2003, we acquired Sud Ouest
Filtration (the SOFI Acquisition), a distributor and manufacturer of swimming pool
products operating one service center in Bordeaux, France. The SOFI Acquisition represents
our fourth location in France and expanded our market presence to the southwest part of
that country. We also acquired in August certain assets of Mepasa Albercas, a swimming
pool distributor in Cuernavaca, Mexico (the Mepasa Acquisition). The Cuernavaca service
center is our first location in Latin America.

On October 1, 2003, we purchased
substantially all of the assets of the distribution division of Litehouse Products, Inc.
(the Litehouse Acquisition). This distribution division sells primarily in the Ohio,
Pennsylvania and Michigan markets. This acquisition establishes a strong presence for us
in northern Ohio and adjacent markets. We recorded approximately $2.5 million of goodwill
in connection with this acquisition, all of which we expect will be deductible for
tax purposes. The purchase agreement includes that a portion of the
purchase price be paid in annual installments of $0.4 million for the next five years.
We recorded these future payments as goodwill at the present value of $1.9 million. We
signed two non-compete agreements totaling $3.0 million with certain shareholders of
Litehouse Products, Inc. Additionally, we recorded a distribution agreement with the
Litehouse retail stores as an intangible asset at the estimated fair value of $6.1
million. We are amortizing the non-compete and distribution agreements using the
straight-line method over the five year contractual lives.

F-14

SCP POOL CORPORATION

3. Acquisitions
(continued)

In November 2003, we purchased
substantially all of the distribution assets of Hayward Iberica, S.A., an indirect
wholly-owned subsidiary of Hayward Pool Products, Inc. (the Iberica Acquisition). Iberica
distributed primarily Hayward equipment from two service centers in Madrid and Valencia, Spain. These two service
centers are our first locations in Spain and allow us to further our presence in the
European market.

We have included the results of
operations of the Quebec, SOFI, Mepasa, Litehouse and Iberica Acquisitions in the
Consolidated Financial Statements since the respective acquisition dates.

2002 Acquisitions

In August 2002, we purchased
100% of the outstanding common shares of Fort Wayne Pools, Inc. (the
Fort Wayne Acquisition). Fort Wayne was a distributor and manufacturer of
swimming pool equipment, parts and supplies, and its distribution network consisted of
22 service centers in 16 states.

The Fort Wayne Acquisition is
consistent with our strategy of complementing our internal growth with the purchase of
additional service centers. The acquisition of these additional 22 service centers
expanded the reach and market share of our SPP network allowing us to enhance our service
capabilities and better serve the growing pool industry. In the fourth quarter of 2002, we
closed one location and consolidated 13 of the 22 acquired service centers with SPP
locations. The remaining eight service centers operate as part of the SPP network.

The approximate $49.7 million
cash purchase price was determined based on negotiations with the former shareholders of
Fort Wayne and our valuation considerations, which included historical and prospective
earnings, net asset value and other valuation considerations consistent with our
historical valuations of acquisitions. In accordance with the purchase agreement, we
placed $1.0 million of the purchase price in an escrow account to secure certain
indemnification and other post-closing obligations of the sellers, and any amounts
remaining in the escrow account in August 2005 will be paid to the sellers.

We allocated the purchase price, net
of cash acquired, as follows (in thousands):

Receivables

$

16,500

Product inventories

18,000

Property and equipment

3,000

Goodwill

33,900

Non-compete agreements

4,400

Other assets


Accounts payable and other liabilities

(26,900

)

$

49,700

We do not expect the goodwill
recorded in connection with the Fort Wayne Acquisition to be deductible for tax purposes.
We signed non-compete agreements with certain former Fort Wayne shareholders
providing for payments in the aggregate of $5.0 million over the next five years. We
recorded the non-compete agreements at their present value of $4.4 million.

We have included the results of
Fort Wayne’s operations in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the
acquisition date.

F-15

SCP POOL CORPORATION

3. Acquisitions
(continued)

2001 Acquisitions

We completed three acquisitions in
2001 (the 2001 Acquisitions). In January 2001, we completed the purchase of substantially
all of the assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of the pool division of Hughes
Supply, Inc. (Hughes or the Hughes Acquisition). Hughes distributed swimming pool
equipment, parts and supplies through 31 locations in the eastern half of the United
States. The acquisition of these 31 service centers allowed us to further our presence in
existing markets and enter new markets. Five of these service centers operate in the SCP
network and the remaining 26 operate as part of the SPP network. We financed the
approximate $47.5 million cash purchase price with borrowings under our revolving
line of credit and a $25.0 million short-term seller’s note issued by Hughes
(the Hughes Note). The Hughes Note was fully paid in November 2001. We allocated the
purchase price, net of cash acquired, as follows (in thousands):

Receivables

$

11,000

Product inventories

27,000

Property and equipment

3,500

Goodwill

15,000

Non-compete agreement

3,000

Other assets


Accounts payable and other liabilities

(12,500

)

$

47,500

We expect the goodwill acquired in
the Hughes Acquisition to be fully deductible for tax purposes. We are amortizing the
non-compete agreement using the straight-line method over the agreement’s five-year
contractual life.

In July and October 2001, we acquired
the capital stock of Exporlinea Importação e Exportação de
Equipamentos para Tratamento de Águas E Outros, LDA (Exporlinea) and certain assets
of Capital Pool Industries Limited (Capital), distributors of swimming pool equipment,
parts and supplies. Exporlinea operated two service centers in Portimao and Lisbon,
Portugal. Capital operated three service centers in Ontario, Canada. As a result of the
Exporlinea and Capital Acquisitions, we expanded our international operations from four
service centers to nine service centers.

We accounted for the 2001
Acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting, and we have included the results of
operations in the Consolidated Financial Statements since their respective acquisition
dates.

F-16

SCP POOL CORPORATION

4. Details of Certain
Balance Sheet Accounts

The table below presents additional
information regarding certain balance sheet accounts (in thousands):

F-17

SCP POOL CORPORATION

5. Debt

The components of our debt for the
past two years were as follows (in thousands):

On November 27, 2001, we entered into
a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with a group of banks. The Credit Agreement,
which matures on November 27, 2004, allows us to borrow under a revolving line of credit
(the Revolving Credit Facility). In November 2003, we decreased our maximum borrowing
capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility to $130.0 million from $150.0 million.

At December 31, 2003, there
was $38.9 million outstanding and $55.8 million available for borrowing under
the Revolving Credit Facility, subject to borrowing base availability supported primarily
by product inventories and to a lesser extent by trade accounts receivable. We pay a
quarterly commitment fee of 0.30% to 0.45% (depending on our leverage ratio) of the unused
portion of available credit under the Revolving Credit Facility. We intend to replace the
Revolving Credit Facility with a new facility prior to the maturity date in November,
2004.

The average effective interest rate
of the Revolving Credit Facility was approximately 3.2% for the year ended
December 31, 2003. Interest on borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility
may be paid at either of the following rates, in each case depending on our leverage
ratio:

the agent’s  corporate base rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.5%,  whichever is higher,  plus a margin
     ranging from 0.125% to 0.375%, or

the current Eurodollar Rate plus a margin ranging from 1.125% to 1.750%

Substantially all of our assets, including the capital stock of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, secure our
obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility has numerous restrictive
covenants, which require that we maintain a minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage and which also restrict
our ability to pay dividends. As of December 31, 2003, we were in compliance with all covenants and financial
ratio requirements.

At December 31, 2003, we had outstanding borrowings of $42.4 million under our accounts receivable securitization
facility (the Receivables Facility).  In the first quarter of 2003, we entered into the Receivables Facility with
a peak seasonal borrowing capacity of up to $90.0 million.  The Receivables Facility provides for the true sale
of certain of our receivables as they are created to a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary.  This
subsidiary sells an undivided security interest in the receivables to an unrelated commercial paper conduit.  We
account for the Receivables Facility on-balance sheet because we have maintained effective control of the
receivables.  Accordingly, the receivables and the related debt are included in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet.  We employed this arrangement because it provides us with a lower cost form of financing. At
December 31, 2003, the average effective interest rate of the Receivables Facility was approximately 1.8%.

F-18

SCP POOL CORPORATION

5. Debt (continued)

Additionally,  in 2003 we signed a $0.5 million non-compete agreement with a Litehouse shareholder,  which provides
for monthly  payments over the next five years.  We recorded the agreement at its  $0.5 million  present value.  As
discussed in Note 3 above,  the Litehouse  purchase  agreement  requires a portion of the purchase price to be paid
in annual  installments  of $0.4 million for the next five years.  We recorded these future payments as goodwill at
the present value of $1.9 million.

In 2002, we signed non-compete  agreements with certain former Fort Wayne  shareholders  providing for $1.0 million
annual  payments  over the next five years.  We recorded  the  non-compete  agreements  at their  present  value of
$4.4 million.

In May 2003, we entered into an interest rate swap  agreement,  primarily to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in
interest rates. Under the swap agreement,  we agreed to exchange,  at specified  intervals,  the difference between
fixed and variable interest amounts  calculated by reference to a notional  principal amount.  Any differences paid
or received on the interest rate swap agreement are  recognized as  adjustments  to interest  expense over the life
of the swap, thereby adjusting the effective interest rate on the underlying  obligation.  This interest rate swap,
which  terminates on  May 28, 2004,  is designated as a cash flow hedge.  No  ineffectiveness  related to this swap
was recognized in 2003.

6.       Income Taxes

Income  from  continuing  operations  before  the  provision  for income  taxes is  attributable  to the  following
jurisdictions (in thousands):

The provision for income taxes
consisted of the following (in thousands):

We made payments related to income
taxes totaling $25.2 million in 2003 and $18.7 million in 2002.

F-19

SCP POOL CORPORATION

6. Income Taxes
(continued)

A  reconciliation  of the U.S.  federal  statutory tax rate to our effective tax rate on income before income taxes
is as follows:

The components of the deferred tax
assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):

We reduce federal, state and foreign
income taxes payable by the tax benefits associated with the exercise of stock options. We
receive an income tax benefit based on the difference between the option exercise price
and the fair market value of the stock at the time the option is exercised. This benefit,
which we record in stockholders’ equity, was $2.1 million in 2003 and
$1.0 million in 2002.

Current U.S. income taxes, foreign
withholding taxes and deferred income taxes were not provided on the undistributed
earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. We intend to reinvest these earnings indefinitely
in operations outside the United States.

F-20

SCP POOL CORPORATION

7. Common Stock and
Earnings Per Share

The table below presents the
reconciliation of basic and diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding and the
related earnings per share calculation (in thousands):

8. Commitments

We lease facilities for our corporate
office, service centers, vehicles and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases that
expire in various years through 2017. Most of our leases contain renewal options, some of
which involve rate increases. The table below presents rent expense associated with these
operating leases for the past three years (in thousands):




$

34,071

$

29,949

$

25,111

The table below sets forth the
approximate future minimum lease payments as of December 31, 2003 related to
non-cancelable operating leases with initial terms of one year or more (in thousands):


$

22,513


19,130


15,355


10,380


6,832

Thereafter

6,033

9. Related Party
Transactions

In October 1999, we entered into a
lease agreement with S&C Development, LLC for a service center in Mandeville,
Louisiana. The sole member of S&C Development, LLC is A. David Cook, an SCP executive
officer. The seven year lease term commenced on January 1, 2000, and we pay rent
of $6,510 per month. In January 2002, we entered into a lease agreement with S&C
Development, LLC for additional warehouse space adjacent to our Mandeville service center.
The five year lease term commenced on February 4, 2002, and we pay rent of
$4,123 per month. The total $10,633 monthly lease payment is for both facilities
consisting of 21,100 square feet.

F-21

SCP POOL CORPORATION

9. Related Party
Transactions (continued)

In January 2001, we entered into a
lease agreement with S&C Development, LLC for a service center in Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma. The ten year lease term commenced on November 10, 2001, and we pay
rent of $12,371 per month for the 25,000 square foot facility.

In March 1997, we entered into a
lease agreement with Kenneth St. Romain for a service center in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
Kenneth St. Romain is the son of Frank J. St. Romain, who was President and
Chief Executive Officer of SCP until January 1999 and was a director of SCP until May
2003. In January 2002, we extended this lease for a second term of five years which
commenced on March 1, 2002. We pay rent of $10,137 per month for the 23,500
square foot facility.

In May 2001, we entered into a lease
agreement with Kenneth St. Romain for a service center in Jackson, Mississippi. The seven
year lease term commenced on November 16, 2001, and we pay rent of $8,566 per
month for the 20,000 square foot facility.

We believe the leases discussed above
reflect fair market rates. The table below presents rent expense associated with these
leases for the past three years (in thousands):




$


$


$


10. Employee Benefit
Plans

We offer a 401(k) savings and
retirement plan, which provides benefits for substantially all employees who meet minimum
age and length of service requirements. Eligible employees are able to contribute up to
25% of their base compensation, subject to the federal dollar limit. For plan
participants, we contribute 50% of employee contributions up to 6% of their base
compensation. Additionally, we make discretionary contributions to this plan under a
profit-sharing provision.

The employee and Company sponsored
contributions are invested in certain equity and fixed income securities based on
individual employee elections.

The table below sets forth our
matching contributions and profit-sharing contributions for the past three years (in
thousands):




Matching contributions

$

2,365

$

1,600

$

1,476

Profit sharing contributions

—



F-22

SCP POOL CORPORATION

11. Stock Option and
Stock Purchase Plans

Stock options represent the right to
purchase shares of our common stock in the future at a price that is fixed on the day the
options are granted (the grant date).

The table below summarizes our stock
option activity for the past three years (in thousands, except weighted average exercise
price and fair value):




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Options

Price

Options

Price

Options

Price

Outstanding - beginning of year

4,480,129

$

8.04

4,100,208

$

6.41

3,547,647

$

4.32

Granted equal to fair value

658,425

18.08

590,550

18.69

938,363

13.35

Granted less than fair value

—

—

—

—

34,425

0.01

Total granted

658,425

590,550

972,788

Exercised

249,461

4.47

155,996

3.95

383,159

3.19

Forfeitures

42,409

14.68

54,633

14.59

37,068

10.15

Outstanding - end of year

4,846,684

9.53

4,480,129

8.04

4,100,208

6.41

Exercisable at end of year

2,076,263

5.49

1,897,538

4.64

1,898,507

3.97

Weighted average fair value of

options granted during the year

7.45

9.27

6.01

The table below summarizes
information about stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2003
(shares in thousands):

Under the 1995 Stock Option Plan (the
1995 Plan) our Board of Directors (the Board) was authorized to grant stock options to
employees, agents, consultants or independent contractors. These options generally were
exercisable two years after the grant date, and they expire ten years from the grant date.
In May 1998, the Board suspended the 1995 Plan. Options granted prior to the suspension
were not affected by this action.

In May 1998, our stockholders
approved the 1998 Stock Option Plan (the 1998 Plan), which authorized the Board to grant
stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and performance awards to
employees, agents, consultants or independent contractors. These options generally were
exercisable

F-23

SCP POOL CORPORATION

11. Stock Option and
Stock Purchase Plans (continued)

three or more years after the grant
date, and they expire ten years after the grant date. In May 2002, the Board suspended the
1998 Plan. Options granted prior to the suspension were not affected by this action.

In May 2002, our stockholders
approved the 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2002 Plan), which authorized the Board to
grant stock options and restricted stock awards to employees, agents, consultants or
independent contractors. No more than 1,050,000 shares may be issued under this plan. In
2003, we granted 594,675 shares under the 2002 Plan. As of December 31, 2003, 466,650
shares were available for grant. Granted options have an exercise price equal to our
stock’s market price on the grant date. These options generally may be exercised
three or more years after the grant date, and they expire ten years after the grant date.

The SCP Pool Corporation Non-Employee
Directors Equity Incentive Plan permits the Board to grant stock options to each
non-employee director. No more than 900,000 shares may be issued under this plan. In 2003,
we granted 63,750 options to the non-employee directors. As of
December 31, 2003, 202,268 shares were available for grant. The exercise price
of the granted options was equal to our stock’s market price on the grant date. The
options generally may be exercised one year after the grant date, and they expire ten
years after the grant date.

In March 1998, the Board adopted the
SCP Pool Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Under this plan, employees who meet
minimum age and length of service requirements may purchase stock at 85% of the lower of:

the  closing  price  of our  common  stock at the end of a six  month  period  ending  either  June 30  or
     December 31; or

the average of the beginning and ending closing prices of our common stock for such six month period.

No more than 637,500  shares of our common stock may be issued under this plan.  In 2003,  we issued  33,424 shares
under this plan, and 456,686 shares remained available at December 31, 2003.

12.      Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

The table below  summarizes  the unaudited  quarterly  operating  results of operations  for the past two years (in
thousands, except per share data):

Quarter



First

Second

Third

Fourth

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Net sales

$

196,388

$

431,885

$

337,611

$

189,948

$

171,354

$

364,088

$

288,799

$

159,005

Gross profit

52,523

120,862

92,157

49,596

43,502

96,695

75,069

40,266

Net income (loss)

1,484

33,963

18,396

(2,995

)

1,902

28,602

14,204

(3,405

)

Net income (loss) per share

Basic

$

0.04

$

0.96

$

0.52

$

(0.08

)

$

0.05

$

0.76

$

0.40

$

(0.10

)

Diluted

$

0.04

$

0.92

$

0.49

$

(0.08

)

$

0.05

$

0.72

$

0.38

$

(0.10

)

The sum of diluted earnings per share
for each of the quarters may not equal the total diluted earnings per share for the annual
period because there is a difference in the way that in-the-money stock options are
considered from quarter to quarter under the requirements of SFAS 128,

Earnings per
Share.

F-24

SCP POOL CORPORATION

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements  of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  the registrant has duly
 caused  this  report  to  be  signed  on  its  behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto
 duly  authorized  on March 1, 2004.

SCP POOL CORPORATION

By:

/S/ WILSON B. SEXTON

Wilson B. Sexton, Chairman of the Board

and Director

Pursuant to the  requirements  of
the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934, the this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant in the capacities indicated March 1, 2004.

Signature Page

SCP POOL CORPORATION

SCHEDULE II–VALUATION
AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(1)

Acquisition of business

(2)

Deductions represent uncollectible accounts
written off net of recoveries and inventory adjustments.

SCP POOL
CORPORATION

Exhibit

Number

Document Description


.1

Composite Certificate of Incorporation of the Company. (1)


.2

Composite Bylaws of the Company. (2)


.1

Form of certificate representing shares of common stock of the Company. (3)


.1

SCP Pool Corporation 1995 Stock Option Plan. (3)


.2

Form of Individual Stock Option Agreement under 1995 Stock Option Plan. (3)


.3

Receivables Sale Agreement dated as of March 27, 2003 among SCP Distributors LLC, SCP Services LP and

Superior Pool Products LLC, as Originators, and Superior Commerce LLC, as Buyer (2)


.4

Amended and Restated Non-Employee Directors Equity Incentive Plan (1), as amended by Amendment No.1 (4)


.5

SCP Pool Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan (5)


.6

Form of Stock Option Agreement under 1998 Stock Option Plan (6)


.7

Amended and Restated SCP Pool Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (4)


.8

SCP Pool Corporation 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan (4)


.9

Form of Stock Option Agreement under 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan (4)


.10

Employment Agreement, dated January 25, 1999, among SCP Pool Corporation

South Central Pool Supply, Inc. and Manuel J. Perez de la Mesa (6)


.11

Asset Purchase Agreement, dated June 14, 2000, by and among SCP Pool

Corporation, Arch Chemicals, Inc. and Superior Pool Products, Inc. (7)


.12

Asset Purchase Agreement, dated January 26, 2001, by and between Hughes

Supply, Inc., Allstate Pool Supplies, Inc., Allstate Pool Business, L.P. and

Superior Pool Products LLC, SCP Distributors LLC and SCP Acquisition Co. LLC. (8)


.13

Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of August 16, 2002, by and between Jeffrey Bertsch, Randall E. Bertsch,

Robin E. Bertsch, Dominic DiNapoli, Thomas A. Epple, Erin Garton, Laura Garton, Richard K. Garton

and Jamee Garton Insko, on the one hand, and SCP Acquisition Co. LLC, a Delaware limited liability

company and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, on the other hand. (9)


.14

Credit Agreement dated as of November 27, 2001, among SCP Pool Corporation, the Lenders, Bank One,

NA as Administrative Agent, Hibernia National Bank, as Documentation Agent, Fleet Capital Corporation,

as Syndication Agent, and Bank One Capital Markets, Inc. as Lead Arranger and Sole Book Runner (10), as

amended by the First Amendment dated as of January 10, 2002 (11), by the Second Amendment dated as of

September 5, 2002 (12) and by the Third Amendment dated as of October 18, 2002 (13)

and by the Fourth Amendment dated as of March 25, 2003 (2)


.15

Guaranty dated as of November 27, 2001 (10), as supplemented by Guaranty Supplement dated as of

September 5, 2002 (12).


.16

Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of November 27, 2001 (10), as supplemented by Security Agreement

Supplement dated as of September 5, 2002 (12).


.17

Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of March 27, 2003, among Superior Commerce, LLC, as Seller, SCP

Distributors LLC, as Servicer, Jupiter Securitization Corporation and Bank One, NA (Main Office Chicago) as

Agent (2).


.18

Performance Undertaking dated as of March 27, 2003, by and between SCP Pool Corporation and Superior

Commerce LLC (2).


.19

Intercreditor Agreement dated as of March 27, 2003, by and between Bank One, NA, as agent under the Credit

Agreement, and Bank One, NA (Main Office Chicago), as agent under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (2).


Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers, and Employees


.1

Subsidiaries of the registrant.


.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP


.1

Certification by Craig K. Hubbard pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a),

as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2

Certification by Manuel J. Perez de la Mesa pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a),

as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.1

Certification by Manuel J. Perez de la Mesa and Craig K. Hubbard pursuant to 18 U.S.C.

Section 1350, as adopted to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

(1

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2001.

(2

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2003.

(3

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement No. 33-92738.

(4

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2002.

(5

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, filed April 8, 1998.

(6

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998.

(7

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2000.

(8

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 2, 2001.

(9

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 30, 2002.

(10

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 11, 2001.

(11

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2002.

(12

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2002.

(13

)

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002.