10-K


pool10k2001.htm

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON‚ D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

X

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31‚ 2001 OR

__

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM________TO_________

COMMISSION FILE NO.: 0-26640

SCP POOL CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

36-3943363

(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)

(IRS Employer Identification No.)

109 Northpark Boulevard‚ Covington‚
Louisiana

70433-5001

(Address of principal executive
offices)

(Zip Code)

985-892-5521

(Registrant’s telephone number‚ including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock‚ par value $0.001 per share

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such
reports)‚ and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days. YES

X

NO __

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein and will not be contained‚ to the best of the Registrant’s
knowledge‚ in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

The aggregate market value
of voting stock and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of February 28‚ 2002 was approximately $744‚252‚209.

As of February 28‚ 2002 the
Registrant had 25‚016‚881 shares of common stock outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by
Reference

Portions of the
Registrant’s Proxy Statement to be mailed to stockholders on or about April
4‚ 2002 for the Annual Meeting to be held on May 8‚ 2002‚ are incorporated by
reference in Part III.

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1.

Business

General

SCP Pool Corporation (together with its wholly-owned
subsidiaries, the “Company”) was incorporated in 1993 and is the
world’s largest wholesale distributor of swimming pool supplies and related
equipment. The Company’s net sales have grown from approximately
$161.1 million in 1995 to $856.1 million in 2001. As of
February 28, 2002, the Company conducted operations through 173
service centers in North America and Europe.

Net sales by geographic region were as follows:

Property and equipment by geographic region were as follows:

Growth Strategy

As the leading distributor in the swimming pool industry, the
Company’s focus is to invest in the future and promote the growth of its
customers and the industry as it strives to operate more effectively. The
Company’s growth strategy primarily consists of internal growth
complemented by acquisitions as strategically and tactically appropriate.

Historically, the Company has grown internally through increases
in same store sales and the opening of new service centers. Same store sales
increased 2%, 11% and 14% in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. These increases
are primarily attributable to increased market share due to several factors
including an increase in the breadth of products offered and the further
development of joint marketing programs with both the Company’s customers and
suppliers. The Company believes that these marketing programs
add value to the customers’ businesses by increasing consumer awareness
regarding the ease and low cost of pool ownership and maintenance. In addition
to increasing sales at existing service centers, the Company has opened 32 new
service centers since 1997.

Since 1997, the Company has successfully completed 12
acquisitions consisting of 75 service centers (net of service center closings
and consolidations). The Company intends to pursue additional strategic
acquisitions to further penetrate existing markets and to expand into new
geographic markets. The Company continues to explore appropriate acquisition
candidates and is frequently engaged in discussions regarding potential
acquisitions. For a complete discussion of recent acquisitions, see Note 2 to
the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1.

Business

Operating Strategy

In order to establish a second national distribution network,
the Company operates the 19 service centers acquired in the acquisition of Superior Pool Products,
Inc. in July 2000 (“Superior” or the “Superior
Acquisition”), 26 of the service centers acquired in the acquisition of the
pool division of Hughes Supply, Inc. in January 2001 (“Hughes” or the
“Hughes Acquisition”), and one newly opened service center
under the Superior Pool Products name. This network has certain exclusive suppliers,
product relationships and marketing programs. The Company adopted an operating
strategy of offering two distinct national distribution choices to customers in
order to promote internal competition to further the value provided by its service centers.

Products

The Company offers more than 63,000 national brand and private
label products including both non-discretionary pool maintenance products
(products which must be purchased by pool owners), such as chemicals and
replacement parts, and discretionary products, such as packaged pools (kits to
build swimming pools which include walls, liners, bracing and other materials)
and whole goods, such as cleaners, filters, heaters, pumps and lights. In 2000
and 2001, the Company significantly increased the breadth of complementary
products offered including building materials, electrical supplies, toys and games,
water features such as fountains, and hand tools.

Customers and Marketing

The Company distributes its products to more than 34,000
customers, primarily swimming pool remodelers and builders, retail swimming pool
stores and swimming pool repair and service companies. Historically, no customer
has accounted for more than 1% of the Company’s sales.

The Company conducts its operations through 173 service centers
in North America and Europe. The Company’s principal markets include
California, Florida, Texas and Arizona.

The Company employs a dedicated sales force that prides itself
on customer relationships. A sales force of 168 salespersons and 173 service
center managers as of February 28, 2002 conducts the Company’s
principal marketing activities. In addition, the Company has four central
shipping locations that re-distribute parts and other
products purchased in bulk quantities.

Distribution

Service centers are located near customer concentrations,
typically in industrial, commercial or mixed-use zones. Customers may procure
products at any service center location, or products may be delivered via the
Company’s trucks or third party carriers.

The Company’s service centers maintain well-stocked
inventories to meet customers’ immediate needs. Warehouse
management technology is utilized to optimize receiving, inventory control, picking,
packing and shipping functions.

Purchasing and Suppliers

The Company has good relationships with its suppliers who
generally offer competitive pricing, return policies and promotional allowances.
It is customary in the swimming pool supply industry for manufacturers to offer
extended payment terms on their products to qualifying purchasers such as the
Company. These terms are typically available to the Company for pre-season or
early season purchases. The Company initiated a preferred vendor program in 1999
whereby service centers are encouraged to purchase products from a smaller
number of vendors in order to effect more efficient purchasing and inventory
management. The service centers are also encouraged to ensure accurate pricing
and greater pricing discipline at the point of sale. These practices have
resulted in improved margins throughout the Company.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1.

Business

Purchasing and Suppliers (continued)

The Company regularly evaluates supplier relationships and considers
alternate sourcing to assure competitive costs and quality standards. The Company’s
largest suppliers are Pentair Corporation, Hayward Pool Products, Inc. and Bio-Lab, Inc.
(a subsidiary of Great Lakes Chemicals, Inc.); these suppliers provided approximately
15%, 11% and 7%, respectively, of the Company’s products sold in 2001.

Competition

The Company faces intense competition from many regional and
local distributors in its markets and to a lesser extent, mass-market retailers
and large pool supply retailers. Some geographic markets served by the Company,
particularly higher density markets in Florida, California, Texas and Arizona,
tend to be more competitive than are others. Barriers to entry in the swimming
pool supply industry are relatively low.

The Company competes with other distributors for rights to
distribute brand-name products. The loss of, or inability to obtain, such rights
could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Management believes that
the competition for such distribution rights may result in a competitive
advantage to larger distributors, such as the Company, and a disadvantage to
smaller distributors.

The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in
pool supply distribution are the breadth and availability of products offered,
the quality and level of customer service, the breadth and depth of sales and
marketing programs, competitive product pricing, and consistency and stability
of business relationships with its customers. The Company believes it generally
competes favorably with respect to each of these factors.

Seasonality and Weather

See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Seasonality and Quarterly
Fluctuations”.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 1.

Business

Environmental, Health and Safety Regulations

The Company’s business is subject to regulation under local
fire codes and federal, state and local environmental and health and safety
requirements including the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act,
the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act and the Occupational Safety and
Health Act. Most of these requirements govern the packaging, labeling, handling,
transportation, storage and sale of pool chemicals by the Company. The Company
stores chemicals at each of its service centers. Certain chemicals stored by the
Company are combustible oxidizing compounds, and the storage of such chemicals
is strictly regulated by local fire codes. In addition, the algicides sold by
the Company are regulated as pesticides under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide
and Rodenticide Act and state pesticide laws which primarily relate to labeling
and annual registration. While considerable efforts are made to ensure the
Company operates in substantial compliance with environmental, health and safety
requirements, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be determined
to be out of compliance with, or liable under, such requirements. Such an
instance of noncompliance or liability could have a material adverse effect on
the Company and its operating results.

Employees

As of February 28, 2002, the Company employed
approximately 1,900 individuals on a full-time basis. The Company gained
approximately 310 employees in connection with the acquisitions completed in
2001. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good.

Intellectual Property

The Company maintains both domestic and foreign registered
trademarks primarily for its private label products and intends to maintain the
trademark registrations important to its business operations. The Company also owns rights
to several Internet domain names.

Item 2.

Properties

The Company’s service centers range in size from
approximately 3,000 square feet to 54,000 square feet and consist of warehouse,
counter, display and office space. As of February 28, 2002, the
Company owns three service centers in Florida. All of the Company’s other
properties are leased for terms that expire between 2002 and 2011, and many of
these leases may be extended. The Company believes that all of its facilities
are well maintained, suitable for the Company’s business and occupy
sufficient space to meet the Company’s operating needs.

The Company’s executive offices are located in
approximately 31,000 square feet of leased space in Covington, Louisiana.

The Company believes that no single lease is material to its
operations and that alternate sites are presently available at market rates.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 2.

Properties (continued)

The following table illustrates the concentration of service centers
in each state and foreign country as of February 28, 2002:


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part I.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

The Company is subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary
course of business, but does not believe that any such claim or litigation will
have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company’s
security holders during the fourth quarter of the year ended
December 31, 2001.

Part II.

Item 5.

Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters

The Company’s common stock began trading on the Nasdaq
National Market under the symbol “POOL” in October 1995. At
February 28, 2002, there were 54 holders of record of common stock.

The following table sets forth in Dollars, for the periods
indicated, the range of high and low sales prices for the Company’s common
stock as reported by the Nasdaq National Market. The prices for fiscal year 2000
and the first two quarters of 2001 have been adjusted to reflect the
three-for-two stock split effective September 7, 2001.

Historically, no cash dividends have been declared, and the
Company currently intends to retain its earnings for use in its business and
therefore does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the near future. Any
future determination to pay cash dividends will be made by the Company’s
Board of Directors (the “Board”) based upon the Company’s
earnings, financial position, capital requirements, credit agreements and such
other factors as the Board deems relevant at such time. The current terms of the
Company’s Credit Agreement restrict the Company’s ability to pay
dividends. For further discussion, see Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 4 to the Company’s
Consolidated Financial Statements.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth selected financial data derived
from the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. This information
should be read in conjunction with Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and with the
Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes.

_________________

During the years 1997 to 2001, the Company successfully completed 12 acquisitions consisting of 92
service centers,
of which 17 were closed or consolidated into existing service centers. For further discussion, see
Item 1.

Prior year amounts have been adjusted to reflect adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force 00-10,

Accounting
for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs

.

In 1999, the Company adopted Statement of Position 98-5,

Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities

and
recognized a cumulative effect adjustment, net of a tax benefit, of $544,000, or a net loss of $0.02
per share.

Income per share of common stock has been adjusted to reflect the three-for-two stock split effective September 7, 2001.

Same store sales growth is calculated using a 15-month convention whereby all newly opened, acquired or
consolidated service centers and all existing service centers in the immediate market areas of the
aforementioned
service centers are excluded from the calculation for a period of 15 months.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General

The Company derives
its revenues primarily from the sale of swimming pool equipment, parts and
supplies, including chemicals, cleaners, packaged pools and liners, filters,
heaters, pumps, lights, repair parts and other equipment required to build,
maintain, install and overhaul residential and small commercial swimming pools.
In 2000 and 2001, the Company significantly increased the breadth of
complementary products offered including building materials, electrical
supplies, toys and games, water features such as fountains, and hand tools. The
Company sells its products primarily to swimming pool remodelers and builders,
independent swimming pool retailers and swimming pool repair and service
companies. These customers tend to be small, family owned businesses with
relatively limited capital resources. The Company maintains a strict credit
policy. Losses from customer receivables have historically been within
management’s expectations.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General (continued)

In order to establish a second national distribution network,
the Company operates the 19 service centers acquired in the acquisition of Superior Pool Products,
Inc. in July 2000 (“Superior” or the “Superior
Acquisition”), 26 of the service centers acquired in the acquisition of the
pool division of Hughes Supply, Inc. in January 2001 (“Hughes” or the
“Hughes Acquisition”), and one newly opened service center
under the Superior Pool Products name. This network has certain exclusive suppliers,
product relationships and marketing programs. The Company adopted an operating
strategy of offering two distinct national distribution choices to customers in
order to promote internal competition to further the value provided by its service centers.

The swimming pool supply industry is affected by various factors
including weather, general economic conditions, consumer saving and
discretionary spending levels, the rate of new housing construction and consumer
attitudes toward pool products for environmental or safety reasons. Although
management believes that the Company’s geographic diversity and the
continuing required maintenance and repair of existing swimming pools could
mitigate the effect of an economic downturn or regional adverse weather conditions, there
can be no assurance that the Company’s results of operations and expansion
plans would not be materially adversely affected by any of such circumstances.

The principal components of the Company’s expenses include
the cost of products purchased for resale and operating expenses which are
primarily related to labor, occupancy, marketing, selling and administrative
expenses. In response to competitive pressures from any of its current or future
competitors, the Company may be required to lower selling prices in order to
maintain or increase market share, and such measures could adversely affect the
Company’s gross margins and operating results.

Same store sales and gross profit growth are calculated using a
15-month convention whereby all newly opened, acquired or consolidated service
centers and all existing service centers in the immediate market areas of the
aforementioned service centers are excluded from the calculation for a period of
15 months.

Same store sales growth was 2% in 2001 compared to 11% in 2000
and 14% in 1999. The same store sales growth trend was adversely affected in 2001 primarily by
unfavorable weather throughout most of the year. The pool season experienced a
slow start with extended cold weather in the North and unusually wet conditions in the
South. Mild temperatures in the North during the summer months further
aggravated the season’s slow start, while a stagnant tropical system shut
down the pool business in the South Central United States for two weeks in June,
which is typically the most active sales month. Additionally, the tragic events
of September 11

th

put a damper on September sales in the pool industry.

In the fourth quarter of 2001 when the
weather returned to conditions typical for that time of year, same store sales
grew 8% compared to the fourth quarter of 2000. The pool industry, in general,
has not been materially adversely affected by the economic downturn, although
there can be no assurance that this will continue.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General (continued)

The following table shows, for the periods indicated,
information derived from the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income
expressed as a percentage of net sales for such year.

The following discussions of consolidated operating results
include the results of operations from service centers acquired in 2001, 2000
and 1999. The acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting and, accordingly, the results of operations have been included in the
Company’s consolidated results beginning on the respective dates of
acquisition.

Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year
Ended December 31, 2000

Net sales increased $182.9 million, or 27%, to
$856.1 million in 2001 from $673.2 million in 2000. Service centers
acquired in 2001 contributed $108.9 million to the increase, while
incremental sales from service centers acquired in 2000 contributed
$59.4 million. The balance of the increase was attributable to 2% same
store sales growth and sales from new service centers opened in the past 15
months.

Gross profit increased $57.4 million, or 35%, to $222.7 million in 2001
from $165.3 million in 2000. Service centers acquired in 2001 contributed $27.7 million
to the increase, while incremental gross profit from service centers acquired in 2000
contributed $12.6 million to the increase. Same store gross profit growth of nearly 9%
contributed $12.7 million to the increase, while new service centers accounted for the
remaining increase. The increase in same store gross profit growth is attributable to
several factors including:

a 2% increase in same store sales

improvements in pricing accuracy and greater pricing discipline at the point of sale

a continued focus on a preferred vendor program initiated in 1999 whereby service centers are encouraged to purchase
            products from a smaller number of vendors in order to effect more efficient purchasing and inventory management

increased sales of complementary products that typically have gross margins equal to or higher than the Company’s average

the utilization of centralized shipping locations which purchase slower turning inventories (such as parts) in
            bulk quantities and then redistribute products to service centers


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year
Ended December 31, 2000 (continued)

Gross profit as a percentage of net sales (“gross margin”) increased to
26.0% in 2001 from 24.6% in 2000, despite the dilutive impact of newly opened service
centers and service centers acquired in 2000 and 2001. Gross margins for
service centers acquired in 2001 and 2000, new service centers and same stores were as follows:

Service centers acquired in 2001


.4%

Service centers acquired in 2000


.2%

Newly opened service centers


.9%

Same stores


.2%

Operating expenses consisting of selling and administrative expenses and
goodwill amortization increased $42.2 million, or 36%, to $158.2 million in 2001 from
$116.0 million in the comparable 2000 period. Service centers opened or acquired in 2001
accounted for $25.3 million of the increase, while incremental operating expenses from
service centers acquired in 2000 contributed $9.3 million. Same store operating expenses
increased $5.5 million primarily due to the following:

increases in salary expense to support the increase in sales and a continued focus on improving customer service

an increase in occupancy costs due to the relocation of existing stores to larger sites to accommodate their growth in
     activity and the introduction of new products

an increase in freight costs resulting from higher gas prices in 2001

Operating expenses as
a percentage of net sales increased to 18.5% in 2001 from 17.2% in 2000,
primarily due to the dilutive impact of newly opened service centers and service
centers acquired in 2000 and 2001. Operating expenses as a percentage of net
sales for service centers acquired in 2001 and 2000, new service centers and the
Company’s “base business” (service centers included in the same store
calculations and related corporate expenses) were as follows:

Service centers acquired in 2001


.9%

Service centers acquired in 2000


.7%

Newly opened service centers


.2%

Base business


.3%

Interest and other expenses increased $1.8 million to
$5.9 million in 2001 from $4.1 million in the comparable 2000 period.
Interest expense increased $1.4 million to $5.0 million in 2001 from
$3.6 million in 2000 as a result of higher average debt outstanding between
periods. Average debt outstanding was $63.8 million in 2001 compared to
$38.3 million in 2000. Amortization expense increased $1.2 million to
$2.3 million in 2001 from $1.1 million in 2000. This increase is
primarily due to approximately $0.6 million of amortization expense related
to a five-year non-compete agreement recorded in 2001 in connection with the Hughes
Acquisition. Additionally, the Company wrote-off approximately $0.2 million
of financing costs in the fourth quarter of 2001 when the Company replaced its
Senior Loan Facility one year prior to the maturity date. Miscellaneous income
increased $0.8 million to $1.4 million in 2001 from $0.6 million
in 2000. Approximately $0.3 million of income was recognized as a result of
insurance proceeds, while the remaining increase is primarily attributable to
miscellaneous income recognized at service centers acquired in the Hughes
Acquisition.

Income taxes increased $6.0 million to $23.1 million
for 2001 compared to $17.1 million for 2000, primarily due to the
$13.4 million increase in income before income taxes. During the fourth
quarter of 2001, the Company’s effective income tax rate increased from
38.5% to 39.5% as a result of changes in its state income tax mix.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2000 Compared to Year
Ended December 31, 1999

Net sales increased $100.7 million, or 18%, to
$673.2 million in 2000 from $572.5 million in 1999. Same store sales
growth of 11% accounted for $52.2 million of the increase, while service
centers acquired in the Superior Acquisition contributed $30.4 million to
the increase. The balance of the increase was attributable to sales from new
service centers opened or acquired in the past 15 months.

Gross profit increased $29.3 million, or 22%, to
$165.3 million in 2000 from $136.0 million in 1999. Same store gross
profit growth of 16% accounted for $18.3 million of the increase, while
service centers acquired in the Superior Acquisition contributed
$6.0 million to the increase. Gross margin increased to 24.6% in the 2000
period from 23.8% in the 1999 period, despite the dilutive impact of the
Superior Acquisition. Gross margin from service centers acquired in the Superior
Acquisition was 19.7% in 2000. The increase in consolidated gross margin was
realized in all domestic regions and is attributable to a continued focus on
pricing and purchasing disciplines.

Operating  expenses  consisting  of selling and  administrative
expenses  and goodwill  amortization  increased  $19.3 million,  or 20%, to
$116.0 million  in 2000  from  $96.7 million  in the  comparable  1999
period.  Service centers acquired in 2000 accounted for $5.4 million of the
increase  while service  centers  opened in 2000  contributed  $2.3 million.  An
increase in same store operating expenses of 10% contributed $5.6 million to the
increase,  primarily due to the costs  associated  with the 11% increase in same
store sales,  which  required  additional  staffing and support.  The  remaining
increase is attributable to incremental  expenses from service centers opened or
acquired in 1999 and the  Company’s  investment in new  marketing  programs
designed to promote the growth of the Company and the industry.

Operating expenses as
a  percentage  of net  sales  increased  to  17.2% in 2000  from  16.9% in 1999,
primarily due to the dilutive  impact of service  centers  acquired or opened in
2000.  Operating  expenses  as a  percentage  of net sales for  service  centers
acquired in 2000, new service centers and the Company’s  base business were
as follows:

Service centers acquired in 2000


.1%

Newly opened service centers


.1%

Base business


.1%

Interest and other expenses decreased $0.7 million, or 15%,
to $4.1 million in 2000 from $4.8 million in the comparable 1999
period. The decrease is primarily attributable to a $1.0 million write-off
in 1999 of certain computer equipment replaced in connection with improvements
to the Company’s information system and Year 2000 efforts. There were no
such write-offs in 2000.

Income taxes increased $4.2 million to $17.1 million
for 2000 compared to $12.9 million for 1999, primarily due to the
$10.7 million increase in income before income taxes. During the second
quarter of 2000, the Company’s effective income tax rate increased from
37.0% to 38.25% as a result of changes in its state income tax mix.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations

The Company’s business is highly seasonal. Weather is the
principal external factor affecting the Company’s business. Hot, dry
weather can increase the purchase of chemicals and supplies for existing pools
and stimulate increased purchases of above ground pools. Unseasonably cool
weather or extraordinary amounts of rainfall during the peak selling season can
decrease pool installations and the purchase of chemicals and supplies. In
addition, unseasonably early or late warming trends can increase or decrease the
length of the pool season and, consequently, the Company’s sales. In
general, sales and operating income are highest during the second and third
quarters, which represent the peak months of swimming pool use and installation.
Sales are substantially lower during the first and fourth quarters when the
Company may incur net losses.

In 2001, approximately 66% of the Company’s net sales were
generated in the second and third quarters of the year, which represent the peak
months of swimming pool use, installation, remodeling and repair, and
approximately 100% of the Company’s operating income was generated in the
same period.

The Company typically experiences a build-up of product
inventories and accounts payable during the winter months in anticipation of the
peak selling season. The Company’s peak borrowing occurs during the second
quarter primarily because extended payment terms offered by the Company’s
suppliers typically are payable in April, May and June, while the Company’s
peak accounts receivable collections typically occur in June, July and August.

The Company expects that its quarterly results of operations
will fluctuate depending on the timing and amount of revenue contributed by new
service centers and acquisitions. The Company attempts to open new service
centers at the end of the fourth quarter or the first quarter of the subsequent
year to take advantage of preseason sales programs and the following peak
selling season.

The following table sets forth certain unaudited quarterly data
for 2001 and 2000, which, in the opinion of management, reflects all adjustments
consisting of normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair
presentation of such data. Results of any one or more quarters are not
necessarily indicative of results for an entire fiscal year or of continuing
trends.

(Dollars, in thousands)

Quarter

3/01

6/01

9/01

12/01

3/00

6/00

9/00

12/00

Net sales

155,514

332,130

236,368

132,040

121,084

255,324

191,543

105,252

Gross profit

38,411

88,303

62,285

33,693

28,975

64,452

46,660

25,223

Operating income (loss)

3,345

42,549

21,767

(3,137

)

2,679

33,128

16,961

(3,466

)

Net sales as a % of annual net sales


%


%


%


%


%


%


%


%

Gross profit as a % of

annual gross profit


%


%


%


%


%


%


%


%

Operating income (loss) as a % of

annual operating income


%


%


%

(5

)%


%


%


%

(7

)%


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of the Company’s Consolidated Financial
Statements requires the use of accounting estimates. Certain estimates are
particularly sensitive due to their significance to the financial statements and
the possibility that future events may differ significantly from
management’s expectations.

Critical accounting policies are those that are both important
to the accurate portrayal of a company’s financial condition and results,
and require management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments,
often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that
are inherently uncertain.

The Company has identified the following four accounting
policies that management believes are the most critical in presenting fairly the
Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The Company performs periodic credit evaluations of its
customers and typically does not require collateral. Consistent with industry
practices, receivables are generally due within 30 days except sales under
early-buy programs for which extended payment terms are provided to qualified
customers. The extended terms require payments in equal installments in April,
May and June or May and June, depending on geographical location. Credit losses
have been historically within management’s expectations.

Management evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable
based on a combination of factors including:

aging statistics and trends

customer payment history

independent credit reports

discussions with customers

Based on historical information and management’s analysis of
current trends, the Company accrues for uncollectible accounts as a percentage
of net sales. In circumstances where management is aware of a customer’s
likely inability to meet their financial obligations, the Company records a
specific reserve for uncollectible accounts. For all other customers, the
Company provides reserves for uncollectible accounts based on the accounts
receivable aging ranging from 0.25% for amounts currently due to 25% for amounts
more than 120 days past due.

If the balance in the Company’s “more than 120 days
past due” category of its accounts receivable aging was to increase 100%
from the balance at December 31, 2001, pretax income would decrease by
approximately $0.5 million or $0.01 per diluted share based on the number
of diluted shares outstanding at December 31, 2001.

Inventory Obsolescence and Shrink Reserve

In evaluating the adequacy of the reserve for inventory
obsolescence and shrink, management considers a combination of factors
including:

the level of inventory in relationship to historical sales level by product, including inventory usage by class based on
              product sales at both the service center and company levels

changes in customer preferences

the experience of the service center manager

the previous inventory management performance of the service center

geographical location

new product offerings


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Critical Accounting Policies (continued)

The reserve for inventory obsolescence may periodically require
adjustment as changes occur in the above-identified factors.

The Company believes its greatest exposure to inventory
obsolescence is inventory that typically turns three times or less per year but
which the Company must have in stock in order to maintain a high level of
customer service. The Company provides a reserve of 5% for such inventory. For
each 100 basis point difference between the Company’s actual experience and
the 5% reserve provided, pretax income would change by approximately $0.4
million or $0.01 per diluted share based on the number of diluted shares
outstanding at December 31, 2001.

At December 31, 2001, the Company’s product inventories
balance was approximately $35.0 million higher than typically required at the
end of the year. In the fourth quarter, the Company made accelerated early-buy
purchases to take advantage of purchase discounts offered by vendors in order to
reduce their own inventory levels. Such purchases consisted mainly of high
velocity whole goods such as pumps, filters, heaters and cleaners, thus the
Company does not expect there to be additional risk of obsolescence associated
with these early-buy purchases.

Revenue Recognition

Service centers are located near customer concentrations,
typically in industrial, commercial or mixed-use zones. Customers may procure
products at any service center location, or products may be delivered via the
Company’s trucks or third party carriers. The Company recognizes revenue
when customers take delivery of products. Products shipped via third party
carriers are considered delivered based on the shipping terms, which are
generally FOB shipping point.

The Company may offer volume rebates, which are accrued monthly
as an adjustment to net sales. Additionally, in certain markets, the Company may
offer discount terms of 5%/10, net 30 days. Customer returns, including those
associated with early-buy programs, have been historically immaterial and are
recorded as an adjustment to net sales.

Goodwill

At December 31, 2001, the Company had a net goodwill
balance of $73.6 million, representing 21% of total assets and 51% of
stockholders’ equity. This balance includes $21.9 million of net
goodwill that arose at the time the Company was established in 1993 in a
leveraged buyout transaction. The remaining goodwill has arisen in connection
with subsequent acquisitions.

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

, which
established a new method of testing goodwill for impairment using a fair-value
based approach and does not permit amortization of goodwill as was previously
required. The Company adopted SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002.

The Company completed its transitional goodwill impairment test
as required under SFAS No. 142 and determined that goodwill is not
impaired. This transitional test required comparison of the Company’s
estimated fair value at January 1, 2002 to its book value, including goodwill.
Additionally, SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill be tested for impairment
annually or if an event occurs or circumstances change that may reduce the fair
value of the Company below its book value.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Critical Accounting Policies (continued)

Should circumstances change or events occur to indicate that the
fair market value of the Company has fallen below its book value, management
must then compare the estimated fair value of the goodwill to its book value. If
the book value of goodwill exceeds the estimated fair value of goodwill, an
impairment loss will be recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Such an
impairment loss would be recognized as a component of operating income.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

On November 27, 2001, the Company prepaid its existing
Senior Loan Facility (the “Former Credit Facility”) and entered into a
new credit agreement (the “Credit  Agreement”)  with a group of banks.
The Credit Agreement, which matures on November 27, 2004, permits the Company to
borrow  up  to  $110.0 million  under  a  revolving  line  of  credit  (the
“Revolving  Credit  Facility”).  The Credit Agreement has an accordion
feature that permits the Company to increase the  Revolving  Credit  Facility to
$150.0 million at the Company’s option.

During the twelve months ended December 31, 2001,  the
Company received net proceeds of  $52.4 million  under its Revolving Credit
Facility and Former  Credit  Facility.  As of  December 31, 2001,  the
Company had $85.0  million  outstanding  and  $23.9 million  available  for
borrowing under its Revolving Credit Facility.

Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility may, at the
Company’s option, bear interest at either (i) the agent’s
corporate base rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.5%, whichever is higher,
plus a margin ranging from 0.125% to 0.375% or (ii) the current Eurodollar
Rate plus a margin ranging from 1.125% to 1.750%, in each case depending on the
Company’s leverage ratio. Substantially all of the assets of the Company,
including the capital stock of the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiaries,
secure the Company’s obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility. The
Revolving Credit Facility has numerous restrictive covenants, which require the
Company to maintain a minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage and which also
restrict the Company’s ability to pay dividends and make capital
expenditures. As of December 31, 2001, the Company was in compliance
with all such covenants and financial ratio requirements.  The effective interest
rate of the Revolving Credit Facility was 4.8% at December 31, 2001.

At December 31, 2001, the Company’s contractual obligations of long-term
debt and operating leases were as follows:

Currently, the Company’s primary sources of working capital
are cash from operations and borrowings under the Revolving Credit
Facility. Borrowings are used to fund seasonal working capital needs and for
other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company’s
borrowings, together with cash from operations and seller financing,
historically have been sufficient to support the Company’s growth and to
finance acquisitions.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued)

Net cash provided by operating activities increased
$8.5 million to $26.8 million in 2001 from $18.3 million in 2000,
primarily due to a $7.3 million increase in net income. In 2000, net cash
provided by operating activities decreased $19.0 million to
$18.3 million from $37.3 million in 1999. A $7.0 million increase
in net income was offset by substantial product inventory purchases made in the
fourth quarter of 2000.

In the fourth quarters of 2001 and 2000, the Company made
advance payments to vendors of approximately $27.4 million and
$10.9 million, respectively, for accelerated product inventory purchases.
These purchases allowed the Company to take advantage of vendor programs whereby
manufacturers offer purchase discounts to reduce their own inventory levels.
Such purchases consisted mainly of high velocity whole goods such as pumps,
filters, heaters and cleaners. The purchase discounts offered by the Company’s vendors
are greater than the costs incurred to handle, store and finance the inventory.

The $47.5 million purchase price of the Hughes Acquisition
in January 2001 was financed by borrowings under the Company’s
Former Credit Facility and a
$25.0 million seller’s note issued by Hughes (the “Hughes
Note”). The Hughes Note was fully paid in November 2001. Acquisitions
completed in 2000 and 1999 were financed by borrowings under the Company’s Former Credit Facility.

The Company believes it has adequate availability of capital
from operations and the Revolving Credit Facility to fund present operations and
anticipated growth, including expansion in its existing and targeted market
areas. The Company continually evaluates potential acquisitions and has held
discussions with a number of acquisition candidates. However, the Company
currently has no binding agreement with respect to any acquisition candidates.
Should suitable acquisition opportunities or working capital needs arise that
would require additional financing, the Company believes that its financial
position and earnings history provide a solid base for obtaining additional
financing resources at competitive rates and terms. Additionally, the Company
may issue common or preferred stock, which may be issued to third parties or to
sellers of acquired businesses.

Share Repurchase Program

Since October 1998, the Company has purchased 1,998,000 shares
of its common stock at an average price of $13.80 per share. An additional
$32.5 million remains authorized for the repurchase of the Company’s
common stock.

Item 7a.

Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

The Company is exposed to market risks, including interest rate
risk and foreign currency risk. The adverse effects of potential changes in
these market risks are discussed below. The following discussion does not
consider the effects of the reduced level of overall economic activity that
could exist following such changes. Further, in the event of changes of such
magnitude, management would likely take actions to mitigate its exposure to such
changes.

Interest Rate Risk

As a result of the variable interest rates on the Company’s
long-term debt, the Company’s earnings are exposed to changes in short-term
interest rates. To mitigate this risk, in 2001 the Company entered into two
interest rate swap agreements with variable notional amounts. The swaps expire
December 31, 2002. If (i) the variable rates on the
Company’s Revolving Credit Facility were to increase 1.0% from the rate at
December 31, 2001; and (ii) the Company borrowed the maximum amount
available under its Revolving Credit Facility ($110.0 million) for all of
2002, solely as a result of the increase in interest rates on the outstanding
debt in excess of the stated notional amounts of the swaps, the Company’s
pretax income would decrease by approximately $0.8 million or
$0.02 per diluted share based on the number of diluted shares outstanding
at December 31, 2001. The fair value of the Company’s Revolving
Credit Facility is not affected by changes in market interest rates.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Part II.

Item 7a.

Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued)

Foreign Exchange Risk

The Company has wholly-owned subsidiaries located in the United
Kingdom, France, Portugal and Canada. Historically, the Company has not hedged
its foreign currency exposure, and fluctuations in exchange rates have not had a
material effect on the Company. Future changes in exchange rates may positively
or negatively impact the Company’s revenues, operating expenses and
earnings. However, due to the size of the Company’s foreign operations, the
Company does not anticipate that exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuations
will be material in 2002.

Functional Currencies

United Kingdom

British Pound

France

Eurodollar

Portugal

Eurodollar

Canada

Canadian Dollar

Cautionary Statement for Purpose of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

Statements made in this Form 10-K that are not historical facts,
including those relating to the Company’s intention to pursue additional strategic acquisitions,
the expected fluctuation of the Company’s
quarterly results of operations, management’s belief that no current claims
or litigation will have an adverse affect on the Company’s financial
position, the adequacy and availability of capital from operations and
borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, the Company’s ability to
obtain additional financing, the Company’s belief that its exposure to foreign
currency fluctuations will be immaterial in 2002 and the Company’s belief that
geographic diversity and the continuing required maintenance and repair of existing
swimming pools could mitigate the effect of an economic downturn or regional adverse weather conditions,
are forward-looking statements as defined under the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the
Company’s historical experience and its present expectations or
projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:

the sensitivity of the industry to weather conditions

the intense competition and low barriers to entry in the industry

the sensitivity of the industry to general economic and market conditions

the Company’s ability to:

•

penetrate new
markets

•

identify appropriate
acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms and successfully
integrate acquired businesses

•

obtain financing
on satisfactory terms

•

generate sufficient
cash flows to support expansion plans and for general operating activities

•

maintain
favorable supplier arrangements and relationships

•

remain in
compliance with the numerous environmental, health and safety requirements to which it is
subject

the effectiveness of the Company’s advertising, marketing and promotional programs

changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements (including tax rate
     changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations)

the risk of fire, safety and casualty losses and related liability claims inherent in the storage of chemicals sold by the
     Company


SCP POOL CORPORATION

Cautionary Statement for Purpose of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (continued)

The Company cautions that while forward-looking statements are
made in good faith and are based upon reasonable assumptions, investors should
not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, each of which
speaks only as of the date the statement was made.

The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or
revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of subsequent events,
new information or otherwise.

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

See the attached Consolidated Financial Statements and related
Notes (pages F-1 through F-20).

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

Part III.

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated by reference to the Company’s 2002 Proxy
Statement to be filed with the SEC.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Incorporated by reference to the Company’s 2002 Proxy Statement
to be filed with the SEC.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated by reference to the Company’s 2002 Proxy
Statement to be filed with the SEC.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated by reference to the Company’s 2002 Proxy Statement
to be filed with the SEC.

Part IV.

Item 14.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

a.

1.

The Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof and set forth on pages

F-1 through F-20.

2.

Financial Statement Schedules. Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or are not required,

or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial

Statements or Notes thereto.

3.

The exhibits listed in the Index to the Exhibits.

b.

Reports on Form 8-K.

On October 22, 2001, the Company filed a Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of

the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Item 5, Other Events, announcing the

Company’s third quarter earnings results.

On December 11, 2001, the Company filed a Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of

the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Item 5, Other Events, announcing the completion

of a new $110.0 million Revolving Credit Facility.


SCP POOL CORPORATION

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Auditors

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Income

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-7

F-1

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Report of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors

SCP Pool Corporation

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of SCP Pool
Corporation as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at item
14a. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial
position of SCP Pool Corporation at December 31, 2001 and 2000, and
the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2001, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
the Company changed its method of accounting for start-up costs in 1999.

/S/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

New Orleans, Louisiana

February 6, 2002

F-2

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Consolidated Balance Sheets

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-3

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Income

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

F-4

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-5

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

F-6

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1.

Organization
and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business

As  of  December  31,  2001,  SCP  Pool  Corporation  and  its
wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Company”),
maintained  172 service  centers in North America and Europe from which it sells
swimming pool equipment,  parts and supplies to pool builders, retail stores and
service firms.

Net sales by geographic region were as follows:

Property and equipment by geographic region were as follows:

Principles of Consolidation

The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of
SCP Pool Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

Segment Reporting

In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 131,

Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information

. The Company has reviewed SFAS No. 131
and determined that the Company operates as a single segment.

Seasonality and Weather

The Company’s business is highly seasonal. Weather is the
principal external factor affecting the Company’s business. Hot, dry
weather can increase the purchase of chemicals and supplies for existing pools
and stimulate increased purchases of above ground pools. Unseasonably cool
weather or extraordinary amounts of rainfall during the peak selling season can
decrease pool installations and the purchase of chemicals and supplies. In
addition, unseasonably early or late warming trends can increase or decrease the
length of the pool season and, consequently, the Company’s sales. In
general, sales and net income are highest during the second and third quarters,
which represent the peak months of swimming pool use and installation. Sales are
substantially lower during the first and fourth quarters when the Company may
incur net losses.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in
the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.

F-7

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1.

Organization
and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments

The Company’s carrying value of cash, receivables, accounts
payable and accrued liabilities approximates fair value due to the short
maturity of those instruments. The carrying amount of long-term debt
approximates fair value as it bears interest at variable rates.

Cash Equivalents

The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an
original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.

Credit Risk and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The Company performs periodic credit evaluations of its
customers and typically does not require collateral. Consistent with industry
practices, receivables are generally due within 30 days except for sales under
early-buy programs for which extended payment terms are provided. Credit losses
have been historically within management’s expectations.

Management evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable
based on a combination of factors including aging statistics and trends,
customer payment history, independent credit reports and discussions with
customers. In circumstances where management is aware of a customer’s
likely inability to meet their financial obligations, the Company records a
specific reserve for uncollectible accounts. For all other customers, the
Company provides reserves for uncollectible accounts based on the accounts
receivable aging ranging from 0.25% for amounts currently due to 25% for amounts
more than 120 days past due.

Product Inventories and Reserve for Inventory Obsolescence
and Shrink

Product inventories consist primarily of goods purchased for resale and
are carried at the lower of cost, using the average cost method, or market. The Company’s
largest suppliers are Pentair Corporation, Hayward Pool Products, Inc. and Bio-Lab, Inc.
(a subsidiary of Great Lakes Chemicals, Inc.); these suppliers provided approximately
15%, 11% and 7%, respectively, of the Company’s products sold in 2001.

In evaluating the adequacy of the reserve for inventory
obsolescence, management looks primarily to the level of inventory in
relationship to historical sales level by product, including inventory usage by
class based on product sales at both the service center and company levels.
Management also considers in its evaluation the experience of the service center
manager, the previous inventory management performance of the service center,
geographical location and new product offerings. The reserve
for inventory obsolescence may periodically require adjustment as changes occur
in the above-identified factors.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost. The Company provides
for depreciation principally by the straight-line method over estimated useful
lives of three years for autos and trucks and ten years for furniture and
fixtures and machinery and equipment. Leasehold improvements are depreciated
over the remaining lease term, including expected renewal periods, if
applicable. Depreciation expense was approximately $3,265,000, $1,997,000 and
$1,589,000 in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144,

Accounting
for  the  Impairment  or  Disposal  of  Long-Lived  Assets

which  addresses
financial  accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived
assets and supersedes  SFAS  No. 121,

Accounting  for the Impairment of
Long-Lived  Assets and for  Long-Lived  Assets to be  Disposed  Of

,  and the
accounting   and   reporting   provisions   of   Accounting   Principles   Board
(“APB”)  Opinion No. 30,

Reporting the Results of Operations for a
Disposal  of  a  Segment  of  a  Business

.   The  Company  will  adopt  SFAS
No. 144 on January 1, 2002  and does not expect that the adoption
of  the  Statement  will  have  a  significant   impact  on  the  Company’s
Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-8

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1.

Organization
and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Intangibles

Intangible assets represent the excess of acquisition costs over
the estimated fair value of net assets acquired and consist of goodwill and
non-compete agreements. Through December 31, 2001, goodwill was
amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from 20-40 years. Five
non-compete agreements are amortized on a straight-line basis over their
respective contractual terms ranging from four to five years. Accumulated
goodwill amortization was approximately $9,540,000 and $7,361,000 at
December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

In  June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS  No. 141,

Business
Combinations

and  SFAS  No. 142,

Goodwill  and  Other  Intangible
Assets

.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 141 on July 1, 2001 and
will adopt SFAS  No. 142  on  January 1, 2002.  Accordingly,  the
Company did not record goodwill  amortization related to goodwill acquired after
July 1, 2001,  and no goodwill  amortization  will be recorded in 2002
and   thereafter.   Management   believes  that  the  effect  of  adopting  SFAS
No. 142  will increase diluted earnings per share  approximately  $0.01 per
quarter  in 2002  based  on the  number  of  diluted  shares  outstanding  as of
December 31, 2001.

The Company will complete its transitional goodwill impairment
test as required under SFAS No. 142 and does not expect that goodwill will
be considered impaired. This transitional test requires comparison of the
Company’s estimated fair value at January 1, 2002 to its book value,
including goodwill. Additionally, SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill be
tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or
circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of
the Company below its book value.

Prior to adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company periodically
assessed the recoverability of goodwill and considered whether the goodwill
should have been completely or partially written-off or the amortization period
accelerated. In evaluating the value and future benefits of goodwill‚
management measured the recoverability from operating income. Under this
approach‚ the book value of goodwill would be reduced if management’s
best estimate of future operating income before goodwill was less than the book
value of goodwill over the remaining amortization period. The Company also
assesses long-lived assets for impairment under SFAS No. 121‚

Accounting for Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be Disposed Of

. Under those rules‚ intangible assets associated with
assets acquired in a purchase business combination are included in impairment
evaluations when events or circumstances exist that indicate the book value of
those assets may not be recoverable.

Loan Financing Fees

Loan financing fees are being amortized over the term of the
related debt.

Start-up Costs

In April 1999, the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants issued Statement of Position 98-5,

Reporting on the Costs of
Start-Up Activities

which required capitalized start-up costs to be
written-off at the date of adoption and any future start-up costs be expensed as
incurred. The Company adopted the Statement on January 1, 1999 and wrote off
$863,000 and recognized a cumulative effect adjustment, net of a tax benefit, of
$544,000.

F-9

SCP POOL CORPORATION

1.

Organization
and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Income Taxes

Deferred income taxes are determined by the liability method in
accordance with SFAS No. 109,

Accounting for Income Taxes

. Under
this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial
reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The assets and
liabilities are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in
effect when the differences are expected to reverse.

Stock Compensation Arrangements

The Company accounts for its stock compensation arrangements
with employees under the provisions of the APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

. Compensation costs for fixed
awards with pro-rata vesting are recognized on a straight-line basis over the
vesting period.

Revenue Recognition

Service centers are located near customer concentrations,
typically in industrial, commercial or mixed-use zones. Customers may procure
products at any service center location, or products may be delivered via the
Company’s trucks or third party carriers. The Company recognizes revenue
when customers take delivery of products. Products shipped via third party
carriers are considered delivered based on the shipping terms, which are
generally FOB shipping point.

Derivatives and Hedging Activities

On January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

, and its
amendments Statements 137 and 138. Accordingly, the Company recognizes all
derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. At the date of adoption, the
Company held no derivatives and thus there was no financial statement impact. In
June 2001, the Company entered into two interest rate swaps as a cash flow hedge
to reduce the Company’s exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. The
effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives qualifying as cash
flow hedges are recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged item
is recognized in earnings, or until it becomes unlikely that the hedged
transaction will occur. The ineffective portion of a derivative’s change in
fair value is immediately recognized in earnings.

Shipping and Handling Costs

In September 2000, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued EITF
00-10,

Accounting for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs

(“EITF
00-10”). EITF 00-10 requires that shipping and handling fees billed to
customers be classified as revenue and shipping and handling costs be either
classified as cost of sales or disclosed in the notes to the financial
statements. The Company includes shipping and handling fees billed to customers
in net sales. Shipping and handling costs associated with inbound freight are
included in cost of sales. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound
freight are included in selling, general and administrative expenses and totaled
approximately $14,724,000, $10,087,000 and $7,746,000 in 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

Stock Split

In July 2001, the Board of Directors declared a three-for-two
stock split of the Company’s common stock, which was paid in the form of a
stock dividend on September 7, 2001 to the stockholders of record at
the close of business on August 15, 2001. Accordingly, all share and
per share data and the related capital amounts for all periods presented reflect
the effects of this split.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts in the 2000 and 1999 Consolidated Financial
Statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2001 presentation.

F-10

SCP POOL CORPORATION

2.

Acquisitions

The Company completed three acquisitions in 2001 (the “2001
Acquisitions”).  In January  2001,  the Company  completed  the purchase of
substantially all of the assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of the
pool division of Hughes Supply,  Inc.  (“Hughes”  or the  “Hughes
Acquisition”)   which  distributed  swimming  pool  equipment,   parts  and
supplies.  The Hughes Acquisition added 31 service centers to the Company’s
distribution  network in the  eastern  half of the United  States  allowing  the
Company  to  further  penetrate  existing  markets  and enter new  markets.  The
approximate  $47.5 million  cash purchase  price was financed by borrowings
under  the  Company’s  revolving  line of credit  and a  $25.0 million
short-term  seller’s  note issued by Hughes (the “Hughes  Note”).
The Hughes  Note was fully paid in November  2001.  The Hughes  Acquisition  was
accounted  for using  the  purchase  method of  accounting  and the  results  of
operations have been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the
acquisition  date.  The purchase  price,  net of cash,  was allocated as follows
(Dollars, in thousands):

Receivables

11,000

Product inventories

27,000

Property and equipment

3,500

Goodwill

15,000

Non-compete agreement

3,000

Other assets


Accounts payable and other current liabilities

(12,500

)

47,500

The goodwill acquired in the Hughes Acquisition is expected to
be fully deductible for tax purposes. The non-compete agreement will be
amortized using the straight-line method over the agreement’s five-year
contractual life.

In July and October 2001, the Company acquired certain assets of
Capital Pool Industries Limited (“Capital”) and the capital stock of
Exporlinea Importação e Exportação de Equipamentos
para Tratamento de Águas E Outros, LDA (“Exporlinea”),
distributors of swimming pool equipment, parts and supplies. The Capital and
Exporlinea Acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting, and the results of operations have been included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements since the respective acquisition dates. Capital operated
three service centers in Ontario, Canada and Exporlinea operated two service
centers in Portimao and Lisbon, Portugal. As a result of the Capital and
Exporlinea Acquisitions, the Company expanded its international operations from
four service centers to nine service centers.

F-11

SCP POOL CORPORATION

2.

Acquisitions
(continued)

The Company completed two acquisitions in 2000 (the “2000
Acquisitions”). In July 2000, the Company completed the purchase of
substantially all of the assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of
Superior Pool Products, Inc. (“Superior” or the “Superior
Acquisition”), a distributor of swimming pool equipment, parts and
supplies. The Superior Acquisition added 19 service centers in California,
Arizona and Nevada allowing the Company to further penetrate existing markets.
The Superior Acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting and the results of operations have been included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements since the acquisition date. The approximate
$23.5 million cash purchase price, net of cash acquired, was allocated as
follows (Dollars, in thousands):

Receivables

5,500

Product inventories

10,000

Goodwill

10,500

Non-compete agreement

2,000

Accounts payable and other current liabilities

(4,500

)

23,500

The goodwill acquired in the Superior Acquisition is expected to
be fully deductible for tax purposes. The non-compete agreement will be
amortized using the straight-line method over the agreement’s four-year
contractual life.

In October 2000, the Company completed the purchase of
substantially all of the assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of
Pool-Rite, Inc. (the “Pool-Rite Acquisition”), which distributed swimming pool
equipment, parts and supplies through two service centers in Miami – Dade
County, Florida. The Pool-Rite Acquisition was accounted for using the purchase
method of accounting and the results of operations have been included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements since the acquisition date.

The Company completed four acquisitions in 1999 (the “1999
Acquisitions”). In January 1999, the Company completed the purchase of
substantially all of the assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of
Benson Pump Company (“Benson” or the “Benson Acquisition”),
a distributor of swimming pool equipment, parts and supplies. Benson operated 20
service centers in 16 states. The Company closed one service center and
consolidated the operations of 16 service centers into existing locations. The
Benson Acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and
the results of operations have been included in the Consolidated Financial
Statements since the acquisition date. The approximate $23.5 million cash
purchase price was allocated as follows (Dollars, in thousands):

Receivables

3,000

Product inventories

11,000

Goodwill

6,000

Non-compete agreement

4,000

Other assets

1,000

Accounts payable and other current liabilities

(1,500

)

23,500

The goodwill acquired in the Benson Acquisition is expected to
be fully deductible for tax purposes. The non-compete agreement will be
amortized using the straight-line method over the agreement’s five-year
contractual life.

F-12

SCP POOL CORPORATION

2.

Acquisitions
(continued)

The Company acquired the capital stock of Pratts Plastic Limited
(“SPW”) in January 1999; certain assets of Garden Leisure Products
(“GLP”) in November 1999; and the capital stock of Jean Albouy, S.A.
(“Albouy”) in December 1999. These acquisitions were accounted for
using the purchase method of accounting and the results of operations have been
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the respective
acquisition dates. SPW operated one service center in Essex, England, while GLP
operated one service center in Horsham, England. Albouy operated one service
center in Rodez, France. These acquisitions allowed the Company to further its
presence in the European market.

3.

Details
of Certain Balance Sheet Accounts

Additional information regarding certain balance sheet accounts
is presented below:

F-13

SCP POOL CORPORATION

4.

Debt

The components of the Company’s debt were as follows:

On November 27, 2001, the Company entered into a new credit
agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with a group of banks. This Credit
Agreement replaced the Company’s previous Senior Loan Facility, which consisted of a
Term Loan and a Revolver Loan. The new Credit Agreement permits the Company to
borrow up to $110.0 million under a revolving line of credit (the
“Revolving Credit Facility”).

Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility may, at the
Company’s option, bear interest at either (i) the agent’s
corporate base rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.5%, whichever is higher,
plus a margin ranging from 0.125% to 0.375% or (ii) the current Eurodollar
Rate plus a margin ranging from 1.125% to 1.750%, in each case depending on the
Company’s leverage ratio. Substantially all of the assets of the Company,
including the capital stock of the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiaries,
secure the Company’s obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility. The
Revolving Credit Facility has numerous restrictive covenants which require the
Company to maintain a minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage and which also
restrict the Company’s ability to pay dividends and make capital
expenditures. As of December 31, 2001, the Company was in compliance
with all such covenants and financial ratio requirements. The Credit Agreement
expires on November 27, 2004.

As of December 31, 2001, the Company had
$23.9 million available for borrowing under its Revolving Credit Facility.
The Company pays a quarterly commitment fee of 0.30% to 0.45% (depending on the
Company’s leverage ratio) of the unused portion of available credit under
the Revolving Credit Facility.

As of December 31, 2001, the Company had outstanding
convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount of $91,250 that were issued
in connection with the Company’s original formation in 1993. Such notes may
be converted at any time through December 31, 2002 into shares of the
Company’s common stock at a conversion price of approximately $0.29 per
share. At December 31, 2001, the conversion of these notes would
result in the issuance of 314,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. The
Company has reserved such shares.

In May 2001, the Company entered into two interest rate swap
agreements, primarily to reduce the Company’s exposure to fluctuations in
interest rates. Under the swap agreements, the Company agreed to exchange, at
specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts
calculated by reference to a notional principal amount. Any differences paid or
received on interest rate swap agreements are recognized as adjustments to
interest expense over the life of each swap, thereby adjusting the effective
interest rate on the underlying obligation. Both of the Company’s interest
rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.

F-14

SCP POOL CORPORATION

4.

Debt (continued)

The Company recorded the cumulative fair market value of the
swaps at December 31, 2001 as an increase to accumulated other
comprehensive loss and an increase to other current liabilities of $662,000. No
ineffectiveness related to these two swaps was recognized in 2001.

5.

Income
Taxes

Significant components of the Company’s deferred tax
liabilities and assets were as follows:

Significant components of income taxes before the tax effect of
the 1999 accounting change were as follows:

The reconciliation of income taxes computed at the federal
statutory rates to income taxes before the tax effect of the 1999 accounting
change was:

F-15

SCP POOL CORPORATION

6.

Common
Stock and Earnings Per Share

In July 2001, the Board of Directors declared a three-for-two
stock split of the Company’s common stock, which was paid in the form of a
stock dividend on September 7, 2001 to the stockholders of record at the close
of business on August 15, 2001. Accordingly, all prior period share and per
share data and related capital amounts have been adjusted to reflect the effects
of this split.

In accordance with SFAS No. 128,

Earnings per Share

, the
Company has presented basic earnings per share computed on the basis of the
weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period and diluted
earnings per share, computed on the basis of the weighted average number of
shares and all dilutive potential shares outstanding during the year. A
reconciliation between basic and diluted weighted average number of shares
outstanding and the related earnings per share calculation is presented below:

7.

Commitments

The Company leases facilities for its corporate office, service
centers and vehicles under non-cancelable operating leases that expire in
various years through 2011 but which have options to extend for various terms.
Rental expense under such operating leases was approximately $24,661,000 in
2001, $16,513,000 in 2000 and $13,463,000 in 1999. The future minimum lease
payments as of December 31, 2001 related to non-cancelable operating
leases with initial terms of one year or more are set forth below (Dollars, in
thousands):


17,185


14,891


11,115


8,120


5,158

Thereafter

4,501

60,970

F-16

SCP POOL CORPORATION

8.

Related
Party Transactions

In October 1999, the Company entered into a lease agreement with
S&C Development, LLC with respect to a service center in Mandeville,
Louisiana (the “Mandeville Lease”). The sole member of S&C
Development, LLC is A. David Cook, an executive officer of the Company. The
Mandeville Lease has a term of seven years commencing on January 1, 2000, and
provides for rental payments of $6,510 per month.

In January 2001, the Company entered into a lease agreement with
S&C Development, LLC with respect to a service center in Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma (the “Oklahoma City Lease”). The Oklahoma City Lease has a
term of ten years commencing on November 10, 2001, and provides for rental
payments of $11,955 per month.

In March 1997, the Company entered into a lease agreement with
Kenneth St. Romain with respect to a service center in Baton Rouge (the
“Baton Rouge Lease”). Kenneth St. Romain is the son of Frank J. St.
Romain, who, until January 1999, was President and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company and who remains a director of the Company. The Baton Rouge Lease has
a term of five years commencing on March 1, 1997, and provides for rental
payments of $9,655 per month. In January 2002, the Company extended the Baton
Rouge Lease agreement for a term of 5 years commencing on March 1, 2002 with
rental payments of $10,137 per month.

In May 2001, the Company entered into a lease agreement with
Kenneth St. Romain with respect to a service center in Jackson, Mississippi (the
“Jackson Lease”). The Jackson Lease has a term of seven years
commencing on November 16, 2001, and provides for rental payments of $8,317 per
month.

Rent expense associated with these leases was approximately
$230,000 in 2001, $201,000 in 2000 and $116,000 in 1999. The Company believes
the leases discussed above reflect fair market rates.

9.

Employee
Benefit Plans

The Company’s eligible employees may participate in a
Company sponsored savings and retirement plan that provides for discretionary
Company contributions under a profit-sharing provision. Employees who are
eligible to participate in the savings plan are able to contribute a percentage
of their base compensation not to exceed 15%, subject to a dollar limit.
Beginning in 2000, the Company contributes an amount equal to 50% of employee
contributions up to 6% of their base compensation. In 1999, the Company
contributed an amount equal to 25% of employee contributions up to 6% of their
base compensation. Employee contributions are invested in certain equity and
fixed income securities based on employee elections. Matching contributions and
profit-sharing contributions made by the Company were $1,476,000 and $392,000,
respectively in 2001, $894,000 and $954,000, respectively in 2000, and $330,000
and $733,000, respectively in 1999.

F-17

SCP POOL CORPORATION

10.

Stock
Option and Stock Purchase Plans

A summary of the Company’s stock option activity and
related information for the plans described below is as follows:

A summary of the exercise prices weighted average contractual
life for options outstanding as of December 31, 2001 is as follows:

(Dollars, except as noted)

Exercise Price Range

$0.01 — $7.78

$7.79 — $23.24

Options outstanding (shares)

1,409,162

1,324,310

Weighted average exercise price

4.14

15.36

Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)

5.91

8.66

Options exercisable (shares)

1,094,111

171,560

Weighted average exercise price of options exercisable

4.59

14.65

The 1995 Stock Option Plan (the “1995 Plan”)
authorized the Board to grant, at its discretion, to employees, agents,
consultants or independent contractors of the Company, options to purchase
shares of the Company’s common stock. The number of shares granted under
this plan was limited to an aggregate amount of 2,025,000 shares. Granted
options have an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of the
stock on the date of grant. Options generally were exercisable two years after
the date of grant and expire ten years from the date of grant. In May 1998, the
1995 Plan was suspended. This action had no effect on options granted prior to
the suspension.

In May 1998, the shareholders approved the 1998 Stock Option
Plan (the “1998 Plan”) which authorizes the Board to grant, at its
discretion, options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock, stock
appreciation rights, restricted stock and performance awards to employees,
agents, consultants or independent contractors of the Company. The number of
shares authorized for issuance under the 1998 Plan is limited to 2,531,250
shares of which 596,244 shares were available for grant as of
December 31, 2001. Granted options usually have an exercise price of
not less than the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. During
2001, the Company granted 584,775 options to its employees and officers. Options
generally are exercisable three or more years after the date of grant and expire
ten years after the date of grant. Total compensation expense for options
granted below market price was $391,000, $428,000 and $549,000 in 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively.

F-18

SCP POOL CORPORATION

10.

Stock
Option and Stock Purchase Plans (continued)

The SCP Pool Corporation Non-Employee Directors Equity Incentive
Plan permits the Board to grant to each non-employee director options to
purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. The number of shares granted
under this plan is limited to an aggregate amount of 1,012,500 shares of which
632,340 shares were available for grant as of December 31, 2001. During
2001, the Company granted 63,750 options to its non-employee directors. The
options have an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of the
stock on the date of grant and generally are exercisable one year after the date
of grant and expire ten years after the date of grant.

In March 1998, the Company’s Board adopted the SCP Pool
Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). Under the plan,
eligible employees may be granted rights to purchase up to an aggregate of
2,025,000 shares of the Company’s common stock of which 1,948,765 shares
were available for grant as of December 31, 2001. Rights are
exercisable at 85% of the applicable market value per share. The applicable
market value, as defined, is the lower of either (a) the closing price of
the Company’s common stock at the end of a six month period ending either
June 30 or December 31 of any given year or (b) the average of the
beginning and ending closing prices of the Company’s common stock for such
six month period. There were 22,144 shares issued in 2001 under the ESPP.

SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation

requires the Company to disclose pro forma
information regarding net income and earnings per share as if the Company had
accounted for its employee stock options under the fair value method. The fair
value for these options was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:

December 31,




Risk-free interest rate

5.00

%

6.77

%

5.41

%

Expected dividend yield

—

—

—

Expected volatility

0.28

0.27

0.31

Weighted average expected life

7.5

years

7.3

years

5.5

years

The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use
in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions
and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the
input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price
volatility. Because the Company’s employee stock options have
characteristics significantly different from those of traded options and because
changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value
estimate, in management’s opinion, the existing models do not necessarily
provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its employee stock
options.

For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value
of the options is amortized to expense over the options’ vesting period.
Had the Company’s stock-based compensation plan been determined based on
the fair value at the grant dates, the Company’s net income and earnings
per share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

(Dollars, in thousands except per share data)

December 31,




Pro forma net income

33,985

27,156

20,756

Pro forma earnings per share

Basic

1.34

1.07

0.80

Diluted

1.27

1.02

0.78

F-19

SCP POOL CORPORATION

11.

Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)

The following is a tabulation of the Company’s unaudited quarterly
results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000:

(Dollars, in thousands

Quarter

except per share data)

3/01

6/01

9/01

12/01

3/00

6/00

9/00

12/00

Net sales

155,514

332,130

236,368

132,040

121,084

255,324

191,543

105,252

Gross profit

38,411

88,303

62,285

33,693

28,975

64,452

46,660

25,223

Net income (loss)

1,042

25,466

12,752

(3,816

)

1,242

19,795

9,750

(2,711

)

Net income (loss) per share

Basic

0.04

0.99

0.50

(0.15

)

0.05

0.78

0.38

(0.11

)

Diluted

0.04

0.95

0.47

(0.15

)

0.05

0.75

0.37

(0.11

)

As a result of differences in the manner in which in-the-money
stock options are considered from quarter-to-quarter under the requirements of
SFAS No. 128, diluted earnings per share for annual periods may not equal the
sum of the individual quarter’s diluted earnings per share amount.

In the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company’s effective
income tax rate increased from 38.5% to 39.5%. Accordingly, the Company recorded
additional income tax expense of approximately $0.6 million in the fourth
quarter of 2001.

Additionally, the Company wrote-off approximately
$0.2 million of financing costs in the fourth quarter of 2001 when the
Company replaced its Senior Loan Facility one year prior to the maturity date.

F-20

SCP POOL CORPORATION

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on March 21, 2002.

SCP POOL CORPORATION

By: /S/ WILSON B. SEXTON

Wilson B. Sexton, Chairman of the Board

and Director

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the registrant in the capacities indicated on March 21, 2002.

Signature Page

SCP POOL CORPORATION

SCHEDULE II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

_________________

Acquisition of business.

Deductions represent uncollectible accounts written-off net of recoveries and inventory adjustments.

SCP POOL CORPORATION

Exhibit

Number

Document Description

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company

(1)

3.2

Restated Bylaws of the Company

(1)

4.1

Form of certificate representing shares of common stock of the Company

(2)

10.1

SCP Pool Corporation 1995 Stock Option Plan

(2)

10.2

Form of Individual Stock Option Agreement under 1995 Stock Option Plan

(2)

10.3

Form of Convertible Subordinated Note dated as of December 31, 1993 issued by SCP Holding Corp.

(2)

10.4

Amended and Restated Non-Employee Directors Equity Incentive Plan

(1)

10.5

SCP Pool Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan

(4)

10.6

Form of Stock Option Agreement under 1998 Stock Option Plan

†10.7

Supply Agreement, among Bio-Lab, Inc., South Central Pool Supply, Inc., and SCP Pool Corporation

(3)

†10.8

Supply Agreement, dated as of September 26, 1996, among Bio-Lab, Inc., South Central Pool Supply, Inc.

and SCP Pool Corporation

(3)

††10.9

Exhibit C (Supply Agreement) of the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 13, 1997, among

SCP Pool Corporation, South Central Pool Supply, Inc., Bicknell Huston Distributors, Inc., Pacific

Industries, Inc. and Cookson America, Inc.

(9)

10.10

SCP Pool Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan

(4)

, as amended by Amendment No. 1

(10)

, and further

amended by Amendment No.’s 2, 3 and 4

10.11

Employment Agreement, dated January 25, 1999, among SCP Pool Corporation,

South Central Pool Supply, Inc. and Manuel J. Perez de la Mesa

(5)

10.12

Asset Purchase Agreement, dated June 14, 2000, by and among SCP Pool

Corporation, Arch Chemicals, Inc. and Superior Pool Products, Inc.

(6)

10.13

Asset Purchase Agreement, dated January 26, 2001, by and between Hughes

Supply, Inc., Allstate Pool Supplies, Inc., Allstate Pool Business, L.P. and

Superior Pool Products LLC, SCP Distributors LLC and SCP Acquisition Co. LLC

(7)

10.14

Credit Agreement dated as of November 27, 2001, among SCP Pool Corporation, the Lenders, Bank One,

NA as Administrative Agent, Hibernia National Bank, as Documentation Agent, Fleet Capital Corporation,

as Syndication Agent, and Bank One Capital Markets, Inc. as Lead Arranger and Sole Book Runner

(8)

10.15

Guaranty dated as of November 27, 2001

(8)

10.16

Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of November 27, 2001

(8)

21.1

Subsidiaries of the registrant

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

†

Confidential Treatment Granted.

††

Confidential Treatment Granted for portions of this Exhibit.

(1)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended

June 30, 2001.

(2)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Registration Statement No. 33-92738.

(3)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended

September 30, 1996.

(4)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, filed

April 8, 1998.

(5)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended

December 31, 1998.

(6)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended

June 30, 2000.

(7)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 2, 2001.

(8)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 11, 2001.

(9)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Registration Statement No. 333-40245.

(10)

Incorporated by reference to the respective exhibit to the Company’s Registration Statement No. 333-58805.