Item 
1.Business

Introduction

AutoZone, Inc. (“AutoZone,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is the nation’s leading retailer, and a
leading distributor, of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the United States. We began operations in 1979 and at August 25, 2018, operated 5,618 stores in the United States, including Puerto Rico; 564 stores in Mexico; and 20
stores in Brazil. Each store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories andnon-automotiveproducts. At August 25, 2018, in 4,741 of our domestic stores, we also had a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to
local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations and public sector accounts. We also have commercial programs in stores in Mexico and Brazil. We also sell the ALLDATA brand automotive diagnostic and repair software through
www.alldata.com and www.alldatadiy.com. Additionally, we sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories andnon-automotiveproducts through www.autozone.com, and our commercial customers can make
purchases through www.autozonepro.com. We do not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation services.

At August 25, 2018, our stores were
in the following locations:



StoreCountAlabama113Alaska8Arizona142Arkansas66California602Colorado90Connecticut49Delaware16Florida334Georgia201Hawaii8Idaho29Illinois238Indiana156Iowa32Kansas53Kentucky97Louisiana124Maine13Maryland78Massachusetts82Michigan194Minnesota54Mississippi95Missouri113Montana13Nebraska21Nevada65New Hampshire23New Jersey102New Mexico62New York198North Carolina221







North Dakota5Ohio266Oklahoma74Oregon47Pennsylvania189Puerto Rico45Rhode Island17South Carolina88South Dakota8Tennessee166Texas610Utah59Vermont2Virginia131Washington92Washington, DC5West Virginia44Wisconsin69Wyoming9Total Domestic stores5,618Mexico564Brazil20Total stores6,202

Marketing and Merchandising Strategy

We are dedicated to providing customers with superior service and trustworthy advice as well as quality automotive parts and products at a great value in
conveniently located, well-designed stores. Key elements of this strategy are:

Customer Service

Customer service is the most important element in our marketing and merchandising strategy, which is based upon consumer marketing research. We emphasize that
our AutoZoners (employees) should always put customers first by providing prompt, courteous service and trustworthy advice. Our electronic parts catalog assists in the selection of parts as well as identifying any associated warranties that are
offered by us or our vendors. We sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories andnon-automotiveparts through www.autozone.com forpick-upin store or to
be shipped directly to a customer’s home or business. Additionally, we offer a smartphone app that provides customers with store locations, driving directions, operating hours, ability to purchase products and product availability.

Our stores generally open at 7:30 or 8 a.m. and close between 8 and 10 p.m. Monday through Saturday and typically open at 9 a.m. and close between 6 and 9
p.m. on Sunday. However, some stores are open 24 hours, and some have extended hours of 6 or 7 a.m. until midnight seven days a week.

We also provide
specialty tools through ourLoan-A-Toolprogram. Customers can borrow a specialty tool, such as a steering wheel puller, for which ado-it-yourself(“DIY”) customer or a repair shop would have little or no use other than for a single job. AutoZoners also provide other free services, including check engine light readings where
allowed by law, battery charging, the collection of used oil for recycling, and the testing of starters, alternators and batteries.







Merchandising

The following tables show some of the types of products that we sell by major category of items:



FailureMaintenanceDiscretionaryA/C CompressorsBatteries &
AccessoriesBearingsBelts & HosesCalipersCarburetorsChassisClutchesCV AxlesEnginesFuel PumpsFusesIgnitionLightingMufflersRadiatorsStarters & AlternatorsThermostatsTire RepairWater PumpsAntifreeze & Windshield Washer FluidBrake Drums, Rotors, Shoes & PadsChemicals, including Brake & Power Steering Fluid, Oil & Fuel AdditivesOil & Transmission FluidOil, Air, Fuel & Transmission FiltersOxygen SensorsPaint & AccessoriesRefrigerant & AccessoriesShock Absorbers & StrutsSpark Plugs & WiresWindshield WipersAir FreshenersCell Phone AccessoriesDrinks & SnacksFloor Mats & Seat CoversInterior & Exterior AccessoriesMirrorsPerformance ProductsProtectants & CleanersSealants & AdhesivesSteering Wheel CoversStereos & RadiosToolsWash & Wax

We believe that the satisfaction of our customers is often impacted by our ability to provide specific automotive products as
requested. Each store carries the same basic products, but we tailor our hard parts inventory to the makes and models of the vehicles in each store’s trade area, and our sales floor products are tailored to the local store’s demographics.
Our hub stores (including mega hubs, which carry an even broader assortment) carry a larger assortment of products that are delivered to local satellite stores. We are constantly updating the products we offer to ensure that our inventory matches
the products our customers need or desire.

Pricing

We want to be the value leader in our industry, by consistently providing quality merchandise at the right price, backed by a satisfactory warranty and
outstanding customer service. For many of our products, we offer multiple value choices in a good/better/best assortment, with appropriate price and quality differences from the “good” products to the “better” and
“best” products. A key differentiating component versus our competitors is our exclusive line ofin-housebrands, which includes the AutoZone, Duralast, Duralast Max, Duralast Gold, Duralast
Platinum, Duralast ProPower, Duralast GT, Valucraft, SureBilt and ProElite. We believe that our overall value compares favorably to that of our competitors.

Brand Marketing: Advertising and Promotions

We believe
that targeted advertising and promotions play important roles in succeeding in today’s environment. We are constantly working to understand our customers’ wants and needs so that we can build long-lasting, loyal relationships. We utilize
promotions, advertising and loyalty programs primarily to highlight our great value and the availability of high quality parts. Broadcast and internet media are our primary advertising methods of driving retail traffic to our stores, while we
leverage a dedicated sales force and our ProVantage loyalty program to drive commercial sales. In the stores, we utilizein-storesignage,in-storecirculars, and
creative product placement and promotions to help educate customers about products that they need.

Store Design and Visual Merchandising

We design and build stores for high visual impact. The typical store utilizes colorful exterior and interior signage, exposed beams and ductwork and brightly
lit interiors. Maintenance products, accessories andnon-automotiveitems are attractively displayed for easy browsing by customers.In-storesignage and special
displays promote products on floor displays, end caps and shelves.







Commercial

Our commercial sales program operates in a highly fragmented market, and we are one of the leading distributors of automotive parts and other products to
local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations and public sector accounts in the United States, Puerto Rico, Mexico and Brazil. As a part of the domestic store program, we offer credit and delivery to our customers, as well
as online ordering through www.autozonepro.com. Through our hub stores, we offer a greater range of parts and products desired by professional technicians. We have dedicated sales teams focused on independent repair shops as well as national,
regional and public sector commercial accounts.

Store Operations

Store Formats

Substantially all stores are based on
standard store formats, resulting in generally consistent appearance, merchandising and product mix. Approximately 85% to 90% of each store’s square footage is selling space. In our satellite stores, approximately 40% to 45% of our space is
dedicated to hard parts inventory, while our hub stores and mega hubs have 75% to 85% of their space utilized for hard parts. The hard parts inventory area is generally fronted by counters or pods that run the depth or length of the store, dividing
the hard parts area from the remainder of the store. The remaining selling space contains displays of maintenance, accessories andnon-automotiveitems.

We believe that our stores are “destination stores,” generating their own traffic rather than relying on traffic created by adjacent stores.
Therefore, we situate most stores on major thoroughfares with easy access and good parking.

Store Personnel and Training

We provideon-the-jobtraining as well as formal training programs, including
an annual national sales meeting with related cascading meetings at our distribution centers, regional offices and stores; store meetings on specific sales and product topics; standardized computer-based training to support culture, safety,
salesmanship, compliance and product and job knowledge; and several specialist, vendor and third-party programs to support learning and development in areas requiring technical expertise and specific job knowledge. All domestic AutoZoners are
encouraged to complete ourin-houseproduct knowledge program and Parts Expert certification, which is developed in partnership with our key suppliers. Training is supplemented with frequent store visits by
management. Advanced leadership training is an additional area of investment that is used to deepen bench strength and support succession planning.

Store
managers, sales representatives, commercial sales managers, and managers at various levels across the organization receive financial incentives through performance-based bonuses. In addition, our growth has provided opportunities for the promotion
of qualified AutoZoners. We believe these opportunities are important to attract, motivate and retain high quality AutoZoners.

All store support
functions are centralized in our store support centers located in Memphis, Tennessee; Monterrey, Mexico; Chihuahua, Mexico and Sao Paulo, Brazil. We believe that this centralization enhances consistent execution of our merchandising and marketing
strategies at the store level, while reducing expenses and cost of sales.

Store Automation

All of our stores haveZ-net,our proprietary electronic catalog that enables our AutoZoners to efficiently look up the
parts that our customers need and to provide complete job solutions, advice and information for customer vehicles.Z-netprovides parts information based on the year, make, model and engine type of a vehicle
and also tracks inventory availability at the store, at other nearby stores and through special order. TheZ-netdisplay screens are placed on the hard parts counter or pods, where both the AutoZoner and
customer can view the screen.

Our stores utilize our computerized proprietary Store Management System, which includes bar code scanning andpoint-of-saledata collection terminals. The Store Management System provides administrative assistance and improved personnel scheduling at the store level, as well as
enhanced merchandising information and improved inventory control. We believe the Store Management System also enhances customer service through faster processing of transactions and simplified warranty and product return procedures.







Store Development

The following table reflects our location development during the past five fiscal years:



Fiscal Year20182017201620152014Locations:Beginning6,0295,8145,6095,3915,201Acquired(1)———17—Sold(2)26————New201215205202190Closed2——1—Net new199215205201190Relocated75658Ending6,2026,0295,8145,6095,391



(1)17 Interamerican Motor Corporation (“IMC”) branches acquired on September 27, 2014.

(2)26 IMC branches sold on April 4, 2018. See “Note M – Sale of Assets” for more
information.

We believe that expansion opportunities exist in markets that we do not currently serve, as well as in markets where
we can achieve a larger presence. We undertake substantial research prior to entering new markets. The most important criteria for opening a new store is the projected future profitability and the ability to achieve our required investment hurdle
rate. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations for stores include population, demographics, vehicle profile, customer buying trends, commercial businesses, number and strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real estate. In
reviewing the vehicle profile, we also consider the number of vehicles that are seven years old and older, or “our kind of vehicles”; these vehicles are generally no longer under the original manufacturers’ warranties and require more
maintenance and repair than newer vehicles. We seek to open new stores in high visibility sites in high traffic locations within or contiguous to existing market areas and attempt to cluster development in markets in a relatively short period of
time. In addition to continuing to lease or develop our own locations, we evaluate and may make strategic acquisitions.

Purchasing and Supply Chain

Merchandise is selected and purchased for all stores through our store support centers located in Memphis, Tennessee; Monterrey, Mexico and Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Additionally, we have an office in Shanghai, China to support our sourcing efforts in Asia. In fiscal 2018, one class of similar products accounted for approximately 12 percent of our total sales, and one vendor supplied approximately
12 percent of our purchases. No other class of similar products accounted for 10 percent or more of our total sales, and no other individual vendor provided more than 10 percent of our total purchases. We believe that alternative
sources of supply exist, at similar costs, for most types of product sold. Most of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers to our stores by our fleet of tractors and trailers or by third-party trucking firms.

We ended fiscal 2018 with 194 domestic hub stores, which have a larger assortment of products as well as regular replenishment items that can be delivered to
a store in its network within 24 hours. Hub stores are generally replenished from distribution centers multiple times per week. Hub stores have increased our ability to distribute products on a timely basis to many of our stores and to expand our
product assortment.

In recent years, we closely studied our hub distribution model, store inventory levels and product assortment, which led to strategic
tests on increased frequency of delivery to our domestic stores and significantly expanding parts assortment in select domestic stores we call mega hubs. During fiscal 2018, we completed our testing and implemented new frequencies resulting in
approximately 25% of our stores, representing 40% of our retail sales volume and nearly 50% of our commercial sales volume, receiving distribution center deliveries three or more times per week.







A mega hub store carries inventory of 80,000 to 100,000 unique SKUs, approximately twice what a hub store
carries. Mega hubs provide coverage to both surrounding stores and other hub stores multiple times a day or on an overnight basis. Currently, we have over 4,800 stores with access to mega hub inventory. A majority of these 4,800 stores currently
receive their service on an overnight basis, but as we expand our mega hubs, more of them will receive this service same day and many will receive it multiple times per day. We ended fiscal 2018 with 24 mega hubs, an increase of eight since fiscal
2017.

Competition

The sale
of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in many areas, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and price. AutoZone competes in the aftermarket auto parts industry, which
includes both the retail DIY and commercialdo-it-for-me(“DIFM”) auto parts and products markets.

Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, online parts stores, wholesale distributors, jobbers,
repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and mass merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores, home stores, and other online retailers that sell aftermarket vehicle
parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories, tools and maintenance parts. AutoZone competes on the basis of customer service, including the trustworthy advice of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection and availability; price; product
warranty; store layouts, location and convenience; and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks.

Trademarks and Patents

We have
registered several service marks and trademarks in the United States Patent and Trademark Office as well as in certain other countries, including our service marks, “AutoZone” and “Get in the Zone,” and trademarks,
“AutoZone,” “Duralast,” “Duralast Gold,” “Duralast Platinum,” “Duralast ProPower,” “Duralast ProPower Plus,” “Duralast ProPower Ultra,” “Duralast ProPower AGM,”
“Duralast Max,” “Valucraft,” “ProElite,” “SureBilt,” “ALLDATA,”“Loan-A-Tool”and“Z-net.”We believe that these service marks and trademarks are important components of our marketing and merchandising strategies.

Employees

As of
August 25, 2018, we employed approximately 90,000 persons, approximately 61 percent of whom were employed full-time. About 90 percent of our AutoZoners were employed in stores or in direct field supervision, approximately
6 percent in distribution centers and approximately 4 percent in store support and other functions. Included in the above numbers are approximately 9,000 persons employed in our Mexico and Brazil operations.

We have never experienced any material labor disruption and believe that relations with our AutoZoners are good.

AutoZone Websites

AutoZone’s primary website is at http://www.autozone.com. We make available, free of charge, at our investor relations website,
http://www.autozoneinc.com, our Annual Reports on Form10-K,Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q,Current Reports on Form8-K,proxy
statements, registration statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably feasible after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our website and the information contained therein or linked thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report onForm 10-K.







Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following list describes our executive officers. The title of each executive officer includes the words “Customer Satisfaction” which reflects
our commitment to customer service. Senior officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

William C. Rhodes, III,
53—Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Customer Satisfaction

William C. Rhodes, III, was named Chairman of AutoZone during
fiscal 2007 and has been President, Chief Executive Officer and a director since March 2005. Prior to his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rhodes was Executive Vice President – Store Operations and Commercial.
Previously, he held several key management positions with the Company. Prior to 1994, Mr. Rhodes was a manager with Ernst & Young LLP. Mr. Rhodes is a member of the Board of Directors for Dollar General Corporation.

William T. Giles, 59—Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President – Finance and Information Technology, Customer Satisfaction

William T. Giles was named Chief Financial Officer during May 2006. He has also held other responsibilities at various times including Executive Vice
President of Finance, Information Technology, ALLDATA and Store Development. From 1991 to May 2006, he held several positions with Linens N’ Things, Inc., most recently as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to 1991,
he was with Melville, Inc. and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mr. Giles is a member of the Board of Directors for Brinker International.

Mark A.
Finestone,57—Executive Vice President – Merchandising, Supply Chain and Marketing, Customer Satisfaction

Mark A. Finestone
was named Executive Vice President–Merchandising, Supply Chain and Marketing during October 2015. Previously, he was Senior Vice President – Merchandising and Store Development since 2014, Senior Vice President –
Merchandising from 2008 to 2014, and Vice President – Merchandising from 2002 to 2008. Prior to joining AutoZone in 2002, Mr. Finestone worked for May Department Stores for 19 years where he held a variety of leadership roles which
included Divisional Vice President, Merchandising. Mr. Finestone also serves as Chairman of the Auto Care Association.

William W. Graves,58—Executive Vice President – Mexico, Brazil and Store Development, Customer Satisfaction

William W. Graves was named Executive
Vice President–Mexico, Brazil and Store Development during October 2015. Previously, he was Senior Vice President – Supply Chain and International since 2012. Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President – Supply Chain from
2006 to 2012 and Vice President – Supply Chain from 2000 to 2006. From 1992 to 2000, Mr. Graves served in various capacities within the Company. On September 27, 2018, Mr. Graves announced his retirement from the Company, which
will be effective early January 2019.

Thomas B. Newbern, 56—Executive Vice President – Store Operations, Commercial, Loss Prevention and
ALLDATA, Customer Satisfaction

Thomas B. Newbern was named Executive Vice President – Store Operations, Commercial, Loss Prevention and ALLDATA
during February 2017. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President – Store Operations, Commercial and Loss Prevention since October 2015. Previously, he held the titles Senior Vice President – Store Operations and Loss Prevention from
2014 to 2015, Senior Vice President – Store Operations and Store Development from 2012 to 2014, Senior Vice President – Store Operations from 2007 to 2012 and Vice President – Store Operations from 1998 to 2007. Prior thereto, he
served in various capacities within the Company.

Philip B. Daniele, 49—Senior Vice President – Commercial, Customer Satisfaction

Philip B. Daniele was elected Senior Vice President – Commercial during November 2015. Prior to that, he was Vice President – Commercial since 2013
and Vice President – Merchandising from 2008 to 2013. Previously, he was Vice President – Store Operations from 2005 to 2008. From 1993 until 2008, Mr. Daniele served in various capacities within the Company.







Ronald B. Griffin, 64—Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Customer
Satisfaction

Ronald B. Griffin was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer during June 2012. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice
President, Global Information Technology at Hewlett-Packard Company. During his tenure at Hewlett-Packard Company, he also served as the Chief Information Officer for the Enterprise Business Division. Prior to that, Mr. Griffin was Executive
Vice President and Chief Information Officer for Fleming Companies, Inc. He also spent over 12 years with The Home Depot, Inc., with the last eight years in the role of Chief Information Officer. Mr. Griffin also served at Deloitte &
Touche LLP and Delta Air Lines, Inc.

William R. Hackney, 53—Senior Vice President – Merchandising, Customer Satisfaction

William R. Hackney was named Senior Vice President, Merchandising in October 2015. His career with AutoZone began in 1983, and he has held several key
management roles within the Company, including Vice President – Store Operations Support and Vice President – Merchandising.

Rodney C.
Halsell,50—Senior Vice President–Supply Chain, Customer Satisfaction

Rodney C. Halsell was named Senior Vice President
– Supply Chain during October 2015. Prior to that, he was Vice President – Distribution since 2005. From 1985 to 2005, he held several management positions and served in various capacities within the Company. On August 27, 2018,
Mr. Halsell announced his retirement from the Company, which will be effective November 10, 2018.

Domingo Hurtado, 57—Senior
Vice President – International, Customer Satisfaction

Domingo José Hurtado Rodríguez was named Senior Vice President, International
in September 2018. Prior to that, he was President, AutoZone de México. Mr. Hurtado has served in various capacities within the Company since 2001, which included leading the Company’s expansion into Mexico. Prior to 2001, he held
different positions with RadioShack including Director General in Mexico and General Manager in Venezuela.

Charlie Pleas, III, 53—Senior Vice
President and Controller, Customer Satisfaction

Charlie Pleas, III, was elected Senior Vice President and Controller during 2007. Prior to that, he
was Vice President and Controller since 2003. Previously, he was Vice President – Accounting since 2000, and Director of General Accounting since 1996. Prior to joining AutoZone, Mr. Pleas was a Division Controller with Fleming Companies,
Inc. where he served in various capacities since 1988. Mr. Pleas is a member of the Board of Directors for Kirkland’s Inc.

Albert Saltiel,
54—Senior Vice President – Marketing andE-Commerce,Customer Satisfaction

Albert Saltiel
was named Senior Vice President – Marketing andE-Commerceduring October 2014. Previously, he was elected Senior Vice President – Marketing since 2013. Prior to that, he was Chief Marketing Officer
and a key member of the leadership team at Navistar International Corporation. Mr. Saltiel has also been with Sony Electronics as General Manager, Marketing, and Ford Motor Company where he held multiple marketing roles.

Richard C. Smith, 54—Senior Vice President – Human Resources, Customer Satisfaction

Richard C. Smith was elected Senior Vice President – Human Resources in December 2015. He has been an AutoZoner since 1985, previously holding the
position of Vice President of Stores since 1997. Prior thereto, he served in various capacities within the Company.

Kristen C. Wright,
42—Senior Vice President – General Counsel& Secretary, Customer Satisfaction

Kristen C. Wright was named
Senior Vice President –General Counsel & Secretary effective January 2014. She previously held the title of Vice President – Assistant General Counsel & Assistant Secretary since January 2012. Before joining
AutoZone, she was a partner with the law firm of Bass, Berry & Sims PLC.







