Item 
1. Business

Introduction

AutoZone, Inc. (“AutoZone,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is the nation’s leading retailer and a
leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the United States. We began operations in 1979 and at August 30, 2014, operated 4,984 stores in the United States, including Puerto Rico; 402 stores in Mexico; and five
stores in Brazil. Each of our stores carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products. At
August 30, 2014, in 3,845 of our domestic stores we also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations
and public sector accounts. We have commercial programs in select stores in Mexico, as well as in our stores in Brazil. We sell the ALLDATA brand automotive diagnostic and repair software through www.alldata.com. Additionally, we sell automotive
hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, and non-automotive products through www.autozone.com, and accessories and performance parts through www.autoanything.com, and our commercial customers can make purchases through www.autozonepro.com. We do
not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation services.

At August 30, 2014, our stores were in the following locations:



Store CountAlabama104Alaska7Arizona128Arkansas62California539Colorado72Connecticut42Delaware13Florida262Georgia187Idaho25Illinois229Indiana151Iowa26Kansas43Kentucky90Louisiana117Maine8Maryland56Massachusetts77Michigan175Minnesota43Mississippi87Missouri109Montana12Nebraska18Nevada61New Hampshire22New Jersey75New Mexico62New York159North Carolina196North Dakota1Ohio244Oklahoma68Oregon40Pennsylvania151Puerto Rico37Rhode Island15South Carolina86South Dakota6Tennessee160Texas566Utah48Vermont2Virginia111Washington80Washington, DC5West Virginia39Wisconsin61Wyoming7Total Domestic4,984Mexico402Brazil5Total5,391







Marketing and Merchandising Strategy

We are dedicated to providing customers with superior service and trustworthy advice as well as quality automotive parts and products at a great value in
conveniently located, well-designed stores. Key elements of this strategy are:

Customer Service

Customer service is the most important element in our marketing and merchandising strategy, which is based upon consumer marketing research. We emphasize that
our AutoZoners (employees) should always put customers first by providing prompt, courteous service and trustworthy advice. Our electronic parts catalog assists in the selection of parts as well as identifying any associated warranties that are
offered by us or our vendors. We sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive parts through www.autozone.com for pick-up in store or to be shipped directly to a customer’s home or business. Additionally, we
offer smartphone apps that provide customers with store locations, driving directions, operating hours, and product availability.

Our stores generally
open at 7:30 or 8 a.m. and close between 8 and 10 p.m. Monday through Saturday and typically open at 9 a.m. and close between 6 and 9 p.m. on Sunday. However, some stores are open 24 hours, and some have extended hours of 6 or 7 a.m. until midnight
seven days a week.

We also provide specialty tools through our Loan-A-Tool program. Customers can borrow a specialty tool, such as a steering wheel
puller, for which a do-it-yourself (“DIY”) customer or a repair shop would have little or no use other than for a single job. AutoZoners also provide other free services, including check engine light readings where allowed by law, battery
charging, the collection of used oil for recycling, and the testing of starters, alternators, batteries, sensors and actuators.







Merchandising

The following tables show some of the types of products that we sell by major category of items:



FailureMaintenanceDiscretionaryA/C CompressorsAntifreeze & Windshield Washer FluidAir FreshenersBatteries & AccessoriesBrake Drums, Rotors, Shoes & PadsCell Phone AccessoriesBelts & HosesChemicals, including Brake & PowerDrinks & SnacksCarburetorsSteering Fluid, Oil & Fuel AdditivesFloor Mats & Seat CoversChassisOil & Transmission FluidInterior and Exterior AccessoriesClutchesOil, Air, Fuel & Transmission FiltersMirrorsCV AxlesOxygen SensorsPerformance ProductsEnginesPaint & AccessoriesProtectants & CleanersFuel PumpsRefrigerant & AccessoriesSealants & AdhesivesFusesShock Absorbers & StrutsSteering Wheel CoversIgnitionSpark Plugs & WiresStereos & RadiosLightingWindshield WipersToolsMufflersWash & WaxRadiatorsThermostatsStarters & AlternatorsWater Pumps

We believe that the satisfaction of our customers is often impacted by our ability to provide specific automotive products as
requested. Each store carries the same basic products, but we tailor our hard parts inventory to the makes and models of the vehicles in each store’s trade area, and our sales floor products are tailored to the local store’s demographics.
Our hub stores carry a larger assortment of products that are delivered to local satellite stores. We are constantly updating the products we offer to ensure that our inventory matches the products our customers need or desire.

Pricing

We want to be perceived by our customers as the
value leader in our industry, by consistently providing quality merchandise at the right price, backed by a satisfactory warranty and outstanding customer service. For many of our products, we offer multiple value choices in a good/better/best
assortment, with appropriate price and quality differences from the “good” products to the “better” and “best” products. A key differentiating component versus our competitors is our exclusive line of in-house brands,
which includes the Econocraft, Valucraft, AutoZone, SureBilt, ProElite, Duralast, Duralast Gold, and Duralast Platinum brands. We believe that our overall value compares favorably to that of our competitors.

Brand Marketing: Advertising and Promotions

We believe
that targeted advertising and promotions play important roles in succeeding in today’s environment. We are constantly working to understand our customers’ wants and needs so that we can build long-lasting, loyal relationships. We utilize
promotions, advertising and loyalty card programs primarily to advise customers about the overall importance of vehicle maintenance, our great value and the availability of high quality parts. Broadcast and internet media are our primary advertising
methods of driving traffic to our stores. We utilize in-store signage, in-store circulars, and creative product placement and promotions to help educate customers about products that they need.

Store Design and Visual Merchandising

We design and
build stores for high visual impact. The typical AutoZone store utilizes colorful exterior and interior signage, exposed beams and ductwork and brightly lit interiors. Maintenance products, accessories and non-automotive items are attractively
displayed for easy browsing by customers. In-store signage and special displays promote products on floor displays, end caps and shelves.

Commercial

Our commercial sales program operates in a highly fragmented market, and we are one of the leading distributors of automotive parts and
other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations and







public sector accounts in the United States, Puerto Rico and Mexico. As a part of the domestic store program, we offer credit and delivery to our customers, as well as online ordering through
www.autozonepro.com. Through our hub stores, we offer a greater range of parts and products desired by professional technicians. We have dedicated sales teams focused on independent repair shops as well as national, regional and public sector
commercial accounts.

Store Operations

Store Formats

Substantially all AutoZone stores are based
on standard store formats, resulting in generally consistent appearance, merchandising and product mix. Approximately 85% to 90% of each store’s square footage is selling space, of which approximately 40% to 45% is dedicated to hard parts
inventory. The hard parts inventory area is generally fronted by counters or pods that run the depth or length of the store, dividing the hard parts area from the remainder of the store. The remaining selling space contains displays of maintenance,
accessories and non-automotive items.

We believe that our stores are “destination stores,” generating their own traffic rather than relying on
traffic created by adjacent stores. Therefore, we situate most stores on major thoroughfares with easy access and good parking.

Store Personnel and
Training

Each store typically employs from 10 to 16 AutoZoners, including a manager and, in some cases, an assistant manager. We provide on-the-job
training as well as formal training programs, including an annual national sales meeting, regular store meetings on specific sales and product topics, standardized training manuals and a specialist program that provides training to AutoZoners in
several areas of technical expertise from the Company, our vendors and independent certification agencies. All AutoZoners are encouraged to complete tests resulting in certifications by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence
(“ASE”), which is broadly recognized for training certification in the automotive industry. Training is supplemented with frequent store visits by management.

Store managers, sales representatives, commercial sales managers, and managers at various levels across the organization receive financial incentives through
performance-based bonuses. In addition, our growth has provided opportunities for the promotion of qualified AutoZoners. We believe these opportunities are important to attract, motivate and retain high quality AutoZoners.

All store support functions are centralized in our store support centers located in Memphis, Tennessee; Monterrey, Mexico; Chihuahua, Mexico and Sao Paulo,
Brazil. We believe that this centralization enhances consistent execution of our merchandising and marketing strategies at the store level, while reducing expenses and cost of sales.

Store Automation

All of our stores have Z-net, our
proprietary electronic catalog that enables our AutoZoners to efficiently look up the parts that our customers need and to provide complete job solutions, advice and information for customer vehicles. Z-net provides parts information based on the
year, make, model and engine type of a vehicle and also tracks inventory availability at the store, at other nearby stores and through special order. The Z-net display screens are placed on the hard parts counter or pods, where both the AutoZoner
and customer can view the screen.

Our stores utilize our computerized proprietary Store Management System, which includes bar code scanning and
point-of-sale data collection terminals. The Store Management System provides administrative assistance and improved personnel scheduling at the store level, as well as enhanced merchandising information and improved inventory control. We believe
the Store Management System also enhances customer service through faster processing of transactions and simplified warranty and product return procedures.







Store Development

The following table reflects our store development during the past five fiscal years:



Fiscal Year20142013201220112010Beginning stores5,2015,0064,8134,6274,417New stores190197193188213Closed stores—2—23Net new stores190195193186210Relocated stores81110103Ending stores5,3915,2015,0064,8134,627

We believe that expansion opportunities exist in markets that we do not currently serve, as well as in markets where we can
achieve a larger presence. We attempt to obtain high visibility sites in high traffic locations and undertake substantial research prior to entering new markets. The most important criteria for opening a new store are the projected future
profitability and the ability to achieve our required investment hurdle rate. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations include population, demographics, vehicle profile, customer buying trends, commercial businesses, number and
strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real estate. In reviewing the vehicle profile, we also consider the number of vehicles that are seven years old and older, or “our kind of vehicles”; these vehicles are generally no
longer under the original manufacturers’ warranties and require more maintenance and repair than newer vehicles. We generally seek to open new stores within or contiguous to existing market areas and attempt to cluster development in markets in
a relatively short period of time. In addition to continuing to lease or develop our own stores, we evaluate and may make strategic acquisitions.

Purchasing and Supply Chain

Merchandise is selected and purchased for all stores through our store support centers located in Memphis, Tennessee,
Monterrey, Mexico and Sao Paulo, Brazil. In fiscal 2014, one class of similar products accounted for approximately 10 percent of our total sales, and one vendor supplied more than 10 percent of our purchases. No other class of similar products
accounted for 10 percent or more of our total sales, and no other individual vendor provided more than 10 percent of our total purchases. We believe that alternative sources of supply exist, at similar costs, for most types of product sold. Most of
our merchandise flows through our distribution centers to our stores by our fleet of tractors and trailers or by third-party trucking firms.

Our hub
stores have increased our ability to distribute products on a timely basis to many of our stores and to expand our product assortment. A hub store has a larger assortment of products as well as regular replenishment items that can be delivered to a
store in its network within 24 hours. Hub stores are generally replenished from distribution centers multiple times per week.

Competition

The sale of
automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in many areas, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and price. AutoZone competes in the aftermarket auto parts industry, which
includes both the retail DIY and commercial do-it-for-me (“DIFM”) auto parts and products markets.

Competitors include national, regional and
local auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, online parts stores, wholesale distributors, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and mass merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores,
supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores, home stores, and other online retailers that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories, tools and maintenance parts. AutoZone competes on the basis of customer service,
including the trustworthy advice of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection and availability; price; product warranty; store layouts, location and convenience; and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks.







Trademarks and Patents

We have registered several service marks and trademarks in the United States Patent and Trademark office as well as in certain other countries, including our
service marks, “AutoZone” and “Get in the Zone,” and trademarks, “AutoZone,” “Duralast,” “Duralast Gold,” “Duralast Platinum,” “Valucraft,” “Econocraft,”
“ALLDATA,” “AutoAnything,” “Loan-A-Tool” and “Z-net.” We believe that these service marks and trademarks are important components of our marketing and merchandising strategies.

Employees

As of
August 30, 2014, we employed over 76,000 persons, approximately 57 percent of whom were employed full-time. About 92 percent of our AutoZoners were employed in stores or in direct field supervision, approximately 5 percent in distribution
centers and approximately 3 percent in store support and other functions. Included in the above numbers are approximately 5,700 persons employed in our Mexico and Brazil operations.

We have never experienced any material labor disruption and believe that relations with our AutoZoners are good.

AutoZone Websites

AutoZone’s primary website is at http://www.autozone.com. We make available, free of charge, at our investor relations website,
http://www.autozoneinc.com, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, registration statements and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably feasible after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following list describes our executive officers. The title of each executive officer includes the words “Customer Satisfaction” which reflects
our commitment to customer service. Officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

William C. Rhodes, III,
49—Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Customer Satisfaction

William C. Rhodes, III, was named Chairman of AutoZone during fiscal
2007 and has been President, Chief Executive Officer and a director since March 2005. Prior to his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rhodes was Executive Vice President – Store Operations and Commercial. Previously,
he held several key management positions with the Company. Prior to 1994, Mr. Rhodes was a manager with Ernst & Young LLP. Mr. Rhodes is a member of the Board of Directors for Dollar General Corporation.

William T. Giles, 55—Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President – Finance, Information Technology and ALLDATA, Customer
Satisfaction

William T. Giles was named Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President – Finance, Information Technology and ALLDATA during
October 2012. Prior to that, he was Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President – Finance, Information Technology and Store Development from fiscal 2007 to October 2012; Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
from June 2006 to December 2006; and Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since May 2006. From 1991 to May 2006, he held several positions with Linens N’ Things, Inc., most recently as the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. Prior to 1991, he was with Melville, Inc. and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mr. Giles is a member of the Board of Directors for Brinker International.

Kristen C. Wright, 38—Senior Vice President – General Counsel & Secretary, Customer Satisfaction

Kristen C. Wright was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary effective January 2014. She previously held the title of Vice
President – Assistant General Counsel & Assistant Secretary from January 2012 to January 2014. Before joining AutoZone, she was a partner with the law firm of Bass, Berry & Sims PLC.







Mark A. Finestone,53—Senior Vice President – Merchandising and Store Development,
Customer Satisfaction

Mark A. Finestone was elected Senior Vice President – Merchandising during fiscal 2008. Previously, he was Vice President
– Merchandising since 2002. Prior to joining AutoZone in 2002, Mr. Finestone worked for May Department Stores for 19 years where he held a variety of leadership roles which included Divisional Vice President, Merchandising.

William W. Graves,54—Senior Vice President – Supply Chain and International, Customer Satisfaction

William W. Graves was named Senior Vice President – Supply Chain and International during October 2012. Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President –
Supply Chain from fiscal 2006 to October 2012 and Vice President – Supply Chain from fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2006. From 1992 to 2000, Mr. Graves served in various capacities with the Company.

Ronald B. Griffin, 60—Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Customer Satisfaction

Ronald B. Griffin was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer during June 2012. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Global
Information Technology at Hewlett-Packard Company. During his tenure at Hewlett-Packard Company, he also served as the Chief Information Officer for the Enterprise Business Division. Prior to that, Mr. Griffin was Executive Vice President and
Chief Information Officer for Fleming Companies, Inc. He also spent over 12 years with The Home Depot, Inc., with the last eight years in the role of Chief Information Officer. Mr. Griffin also served at Deloitte & Touche LLP and Delta
Air Lines, Inc.

Albert Saltiel, 50—Senior Vice President – Marketing, Customer Satisfaction

Albert “Al” Saltiel was elected Senior Vice President – Marketing during April 2013. Prior to that, he was Chief Marketing Officer and a key
member of the leadership team at Navistar International Corporation. Mr. Saltiel has also been with Sony Electronics as General Manager, Marketing, and Ford Motor Company where he held multiple marketing roles.

Thomas B. Newbern, 52—Senior Vice President – Store Operations and Loss Prevention, Customer Satisfaction

Thomas B. Newbern was elected Senior Vice President–Store Operation and Store Development during October 2012. Previously, Mr. Newbern held
the titles Senior Vice President–Store Operations from fiscal 2007 to October 2012 and Vice President – Store Operations from fiscal 1998 to fiscal 2007. Previously, he has held several key management positions with the Company.

Charlie Pleas, III, 49—Senior Vice President and Controller, Customer Satisfaction

Charlie Pleas, III, was elected Senior Vice President and Controller during fiscal 2007. Prior to that, he was Vice President and Controller since 2003.
Previously, he was Vice President – Accounting since 2000, and Director of General Accounting since 1996. Prior to joining AutoZone, Mr. Pleas was a Division Controller with Fleming Companies, Inc. where he served in various capacities
since 1988.

Larry M. Roesel, 57—Senior Vice President – Commercial, Customer Satisfaction

Larry M. Roesel was elected Senior Vice President–Commercial during fiscal 2007. Mr. Roesel came to AutoZone with more than thirty years of
experience with OfficeMax, Inc. and its predecessor, where he served in operations, sales and general management.

Michael A. Womack,
47—Senior Vice President – Human Resources, Customer Satisfaction

Michael A. Womack was elected Senior Vice President – Human
Resources in June 2012. He was previously Vice President of Human Resources with Cintas Corporation and had been with Cintas since 2003. Before joining Cintas, he was a partner with the Littler Mendelson law firm.







