Item 1. Business

Introduction

AutoZone, Inc. (“AutoZone,” the
“Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is the nation’s leading retailer, and a leading distributor, of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the United States. We began operations in 1979 and at
August 25, 2012, operated 4,685 stores in the United States, including Puerto Rico, and 321 in Mexico. Each of our stores carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and
remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products. At August 25, 2012, in 3,053 of our domestic stores, we also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery
of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations and public sector accounts. We have commercial programs in select stores in Mexico as well. We also sell the ALLDATA brand automotive diagnostic
and repair software through www.alldata.com and www.alldatadiy.com. Additionally, we sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products through www.autozone.com, and our commercial customers can make purchases
through www.autozonepro.com. We do not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation services.

At August 25, 2012, our stores
were in the following locations:



Store CountAlabama100Alaska1Arizona121Arkansas60California502Colorado68Connecticut38Delaware13Florida244Georgia181Idaho22Illinois223Indiana146Iowa23Kansas38Kentucky87Louisiana113Maine6Maryland48Massachusetts76Michigan161Minnesota35Mississippi85Missouri104Montana9Nebraska14Nevada58New Hampshire20New Jersey74New Mexico62New York140North Carolina186North Dakota1Ohio236Oklahoma67Oregon36Pennsylvania129Puerto Rico29







Rhode Island15South Carolina82South Dakota3Tennessee157Texas551Utah43Vermont2Virginia103Washington73Washington, DC6West Virginia31Wisconsin57Wyoming6Total Domestic4,685Mexico321Total5,006

Marketing and Merchandising Strategy

We are dedicated to providing customers with superior service and trustworthy advice as well as quality automotive parts and products at a great value in
conveniently located, well-designed stores. Key elements of this strategy are:

Customer Service

Customer service is the most important element in our marketing and merchandising strategy, which is based upon consumer marketing research. We emphasize
that our AutoZoners (employees) should always put customers first by providing prompt, courteous service and trustworthy advice. Our electronic parts catalog assists in the selection of parts as well as warranties that are offered by us or our
vendors on many of the parts that we sell. The wide area network in our stores helps us expedite credit or debit card and check approval processes, locate parts at neighboring AutoZone stores, including our hub stores, and in some cases, place
special orders directly with our vendors. Additionally, we sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive parts throughwww.autozone.comand offer smartphone apps that provide customers with store locations,
driving directions, operating hours, and product availability.

Our stores generally open at 7:30 or 8 a.m. and close between 8 and 10 p.m.
Monday through Saturday and typically open at 9 a.m. and close between 6 and 9 p.m. on Sunday. However, some stores are open 24 hours, and some have extended hours of 6 or 7 a.m. until midnight seven days a week.

We also provide specialty tools through our Loan-A-Tool program. Customers can borrow a specialty tool, such as a steering wheel puller, for which a
do-it-yourself (“DIY”) customer or a repair shop would have little or no use other than for a single job. AutoZoners also provide other free services, including check engine light readings where allowed by law, battery charging, the
collection of used oil for recycling, and the testing of starters, alternators, batteries, sensors and actuators.







Merchandising

The following tables show some of the types of products that we sell by major category of items:



FailureMaintenanceDiscretionaryA/C CompressorsBatteries & AccessoriesBelts & HosesCarburetorsChassisClutchesCV AxlesEnginesFuel PumpsFusesIgnitionLightingMufflersStarters & AlternatorsWater PumpsRadiatorsThermostatsAntifreeze & Windshield Washer FluidBrake Drums, Rotors, Shoes & PadsChemicals, including Brake & PowerSteering Fluid, Oil & Fuel AdditivesOil
& Transmission FluidOil, Air, Fuel & Transmission FiltersOxygen SensorsPaint & AccessoriesRefrigerant & AccessoriesShock Absorbers & StrutsSpark Plugs & WiresWindshield
WipersAir FreshenersCell Phone
AccessoriesDrinks & SnacksFloor
Mats & Seat CoversMirrorsPerformance ProductsProtectants &
CleanersSealants & AdhesivesSteering Wheel CoversStereos &
RadiosToolsWash &
Wax

We believe that the satisfaction of our customers is often impacted by our ability to provide specific automotive
products as requested. Each store carries the same basic products, but we tailor our inventory to the makes and models of the vehicles in each store’s trade area, and our sales floor products are tailored to the local store’s demographics.
Our hub stores carry a larger assortment of products that are delivered to local satellite stores. We are constantly updating the products we offer to ensure that our inventory matches the products our customers need or desire.

Pricing

We want to be perceived by our
customers as the value leader in our industry, by consistently providing quality merchandise at the right price, backed by a satisfactory warranty and outstanding customer service. For many of our products, we offer multiple value choices in a
good/better/best assortment, with appropriate price and quality differences from the “good” products to the “better” and “best” products. A key differentiating component versus our competitors is our exclusive line of
in-house brands, which includes the Econocraft, Valucraft, AutoZone, Duralast, Duralast Gold, and Duralast Platinum brands. We believe that our overall value compares favorably to that of our competitors.

Brand Marketing: Advertising and Promotions

We believe that targeted advertising and promotions play important roles in succeeding in today’s environment. We are constantly working to understand our customers’ wants and needs so that we
can build long-lasting, loyal relationships. We utilize promotions, advertising and loyalty card programs primarily to advise customers about the overall importance of vehicle maintenance, our great value and the availability of high quality parts.
Broadcast and internet media are our primary advertising methods of driving traffic to our stores. We utilize in-store signage, in store circulars, and creative product placement and promotions to help educate customers about products that they
need.

Store Design and Visual Merchandising

We design and build stores for high visual impact. The typical AutoZone store utilizes colorful exterior and interior signage, exposed beams and ductwork and brightly lit interiors. Maintenance products,
accessories and non-automotive items are attractively displayed for easy browsing by customers. In-store signage and special displays promote products on floor displays, end caps and shelves.

Commercial

Our commercial sales program operates in a highly
fragmented market, and we are one of the leading distributors of automotive parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations and public sector accounts in the United States, Puerto Rico and Mexico.
As a part of the program, we offer credit and delivery to our customers, as well as direct commercial sales through www.autozonepro.com. Through our hub stores, we offer a greater range of parts and products desired by professional technicians. We
have dedicated sales teams focused on national, regional and public sector commercial accounts.







Store Operations

Store Formats

Substantially all AutoZone stores are based on standard store formats,
resulting in generally consistent appearance, merchandising and product mix. Approximately 85% to 90% of each store’s square footage is selling space, of which approximately 40% to 45% is dedicated to hard parts inventory. The hard parts
inventory area is generally fronted by counters or pods that run the depth or length of the store, dividing the hard parts area from the remainder of the store. The remaining selling space contains displays of maintenance, accessories and
non-automotive items.

We believe that our stores are “destination stores,” generating their own traffic rather than relying on
traffic created by adjacent stores. Therefore, we situate most stores on major thoroughfares with easy access and good parking.

Store
Personnel and Training

Each store typically employs from 10 to 16 AutoZoners, including a manager and, in some cases, an assistant
manager. We provide on-the-job training as well as formal training programs, including an annual national sales meeting, regular store meetings on specific sales and product issues, standardized training manuals and a specialist program that
provides training to AutoZoners in several areas of technical expertise from the Company, our vendors and independent certification agencies. All AutoZoners are encouraged to complete tests resulting in certifications by the National Institute for
Automotive Service Excellence (“ASE”), which is broadly recognized for training certification in the automotive industry. Training is supplemented with frequent store visits by management.

Store managers, sales representatives and commercial specialists receive financial incentives through performance-based bonuses. In addition, our growth
has provided opportunities for the promotion of qualified AutoZoners. We believe these opportunities are important to attract, motivate and retain high quality AutoZoners.

All store support functions are centralized in our store support centers located in Memphis, Tennessee; Monterrey, Mexico and Chihuahua, Mexico. We believe that this centralization enhances consistent
execution of our merchandising and marketing strategies at the store level, while reducing expenses and cost of sales.

Store Automation

All of our stores have Z-net, our proprietary electronic catalog that enables our AutoZoners to efficiently look up the parts that our
customers need and to provide complete job solutions, advice and information for customer vehicles. Z-net provides parts information based on the year, make, model and engine type of a vehicle and also tracks inventory availability at the store, at
other nearby stores and through special order. The Z-net display screens are placed on the hard parts counter or pods, where both the AutoZoner and customer can view the screen.

Our stores utilize our computerized proprietary Store Management System, which includes bar code scanning and point-of-sale data collection terminals. The Store Management System provides administrative
assistance and improved personnel scheduling at the store level, as well as enhanced merchandising information and improved inventory control. We believe the Store Management System also enhances customer service through faster processing of
transactions and simplified warranty and product return procedures. In addition, our wide area network enables the stores to expedite credit or debit card and check approval processes, to access national warranty data, to implement real-time
inventory controls and to locate and hold parts at neighboring AutoZone stores.







Store Development

The following table reflects our store development during the past five fiscal years:



Fiscal Year20122011201020092008Beginning stores4,8134,6274,4174,2404,056New stores193188213180185Closed stores—2331Net new stores193186210177184Relocated stores10103914Ending stores5,0064,8134,6274,4174,240

We believe that expansion opportunities exist both in markets that we do not currently serve, as well as in markets where
we can achieve a larger presence. We attempt to obtain high visibility sites in high traffic locations and undertake substantial research prior to entering new markets. The most important criteria for opening a new store are the projected future
profitability and the ability to achieve our required investment hurdle rate. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations include population, demographics, vehicle profile, customer buying trends, commercial businesses, number and
strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real estate. In reviewing the vehicle profile, we also consider the number of vehicles that are seven years old and older, or “our kind of vehicles”; these vehicles are generally no
longer under the original manufacturers’ warranties and require more maintenance and repair than newer vehicles. We generally seek to open new stores within or contiguous to existing market areas and attempt to cluster development in markets in
a relatively short period of time. In addition to continuing to lease or develop our own stores, we evaluate and may make strategic acquisitions.

Purchasing and Supply Chain

Merchandise is selected and purchased
for all stores through our store support centers located in Memphis, Tennessee and Monterrey, Mexico. In fiscal 2012, one class of similar products accounted for 10 percent of our total sales, and one vendor supplied more than 10 percent of our
purchases. No other class of similar products accounted for 10 percent or more of our total sales, and no other individual vendor provided more than 10 percent of our total purchases. We believe that we have good relationships with our suppliers. We
also believe that alternative sources of supply exist, at similar cost, for most types of product sold. Most of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers to our stores by our fleet of tractors and trailers or by third-party trucking
firms.

Our hub stores have increased our ability to distribute products on a timely basis to many of our stores and to expand our product
assortment. A hub store generally has a larger assortment of products as well as regular replenishment items that can be delivered to a store in its network within 24 hours. Hub stores are generally replenished from distribution centers multiple
times per week.

Competition

The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in many areas, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and price. AutoZone
competes in the after-market auto parts industry, which includes both the retail DIY and commercial do-it-for-me (“DIFM”) auto parts and products markets.

Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, on-line parts stores, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and
mass merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories, tools and maintenance parts. AutoZone competes on the
basis of customer service, including the trustworthy advice of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection and availability; price; product warranty; store layouts, location and convenience; and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks
and service marks.







Trademarks and Patents

We have registered several service marks and trademarks in the United States Patent and Trademark office as well as in certain other countries, including
our service marks, “AutoZone” and “Get in the Zone,” and trademarks, “AutoZone,” “Duralast,” “Duralast Gold,” “Duralast Platinum,” “Valucraft,” “Econocraft,”
“ALLDATA,” “Loan-A-Tool” and “Z-net.” We believe that these service marks and trademarks are important components of our marketing and merchandising strategies.

Employees

As of August 25, 2012, we employed over 70,000
persons, approximately 59 percent of whom were employed full-time. About 92 percent of our AutoZoners were employed in stores or in direct field supervision, approximately 5 percent in distribution centers and approximately 3 percent in store
support and other functions. Included in the above numbers are approximately 4,100 persons employed in our Mexico operations.

We have never
experienced any material labor disruption and believe that relations with our AutoZoners are good.

AutoZone
Websites

AutoZone’s primary website is at http://www.autozone.com. We make available, free of charge, at our investor relations
website, http://www.autozoneinc.com, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, registration statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably feasible after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following list describes our executive officers. The title of each executive officer includes the words “Customer Satisfaction” which reflects our commitment to customer service. Officers
are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

William C. Rhodes, III, 47—Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer, Customer Satisfaction

William C. Rhodes, III, was named Chairman of AutoZone during fiscal 2007 and has been President,
Chief Executive Officer and a director since March 2005. Prior to his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rhodes was Executive Vice President – Store Operations and Commercial. Previously, he held several key
management positions with the Company. Prior to 1994, Mr. Rhodes was a manager with Ernst & Young LLP. Mr. Rhodes is currently a member of the Board of Directors for Dollar General Corporation.

William T. Giles, 53—Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President – Finance, Information Technology and ALLDATA, Customer
Satisfaction

William T. Giles was named Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President – Finance, Information Technology and
ALLDATA during October 2012. Prior to that, he was Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President – Finance, Information Technology and Store Development from fiscal 2007 to October 2012, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer from June 2006 to December 2006, and Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since May 2006. From 1991 to May 2006, he held several positions with Linens N’ Things, Inc., most recently as the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer. Prior to 1991, he was with Melville, Inc. and PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Harry L. Goldsmith, 61—Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary, Customer Satisfaction

Harry L. Goldsmith was elected Executive Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary during fiscal 2006. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 1996 and was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1993 to 1996.

Mark A. Finestone,51—Senior Vice President – Merchandising, Customer Satisfaction

Mark A. Finestone was elected Senior Vice President – Merchandising during fiscal 2008. Previously, he was Vice President – Merchandising since 2002. Prior to joining AutoZone in 2002,
Mr. Finestone worked for May Department Stores for 19 years where he held a variety of leadership roles which included Divisional Vice President, Merchandising.







William W. Graves,52—Senior Vice President – Supply Chain and International,
Customer Satisfaction

William W. Graves was named Senior Vice President – Supply Chain and International during October 2012. Prior
thereto, he was Senior Vice President – Supply Chain from fiscal 2006 to October 2012 and Vice President – Supply Chain from fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2006. From 1992 to 2000, Mr. Graves served in various capacities with the Company.

Ronald B. Griffin, 58—Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Customer Satisfaction

Ronald B. Griffin was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in June 2012. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Global
Information Technology at Hewlett-Packard Company. During his tenure at Hewlett-Packard Company, he also served as the Chief Information Officer for the Enterprise Business Division. Prior to that, Mr. Griffin was Executive Vice President and
Chief Information Officer for Fleming Companies, Inc. He also spent over 12 years with The Home Depot, Inc., with the last eight years in the role of Chief Information Officer. Mr. Griffin also served at Deloitte & Touche LLP and Delta
Air Lines, Inc.

Lisa R. Kranc, 59—Senior Vice President – Marketing, Customer Satisfaction

Lisa R. Kranc was elected Senior Vice President–Marketing during fiscal 2001. Previously, she was Vice President–Marketing for
Hannaford Bros. Co., a Maine-based grocery chain, since 1997, and was Senior Vice President–Marketing for Bruno’s, Inc., from 1996 to 1997. Prior to 1996, she was Vice President Marketing for Giant Eagle, Inc. since 1992.

Thomas B. Newbern, 50—Senior Vice President – Store Operations and Store Development, Customer Satisfaction

Thomas B. Newbern was elected Senior Vice President–Store Operation and Store Development during October 2012. Previously, Mr. Newbern
held the titles Senior Vice President–Store Operations from fiscal 2007 to October 2012 and Vice President – Store Operations from fiscal 1998 to fiscal 2007. Previously, he has held several key management positions with the
Company.

Robert D. Olsen, 59—Corporate Development Officer, Customer Satisfaction

Robert D. Olsen was elected Corporate Development Officer during fiscal 2009, with primary responsibility for Mexico, ALLDATA, and other strategic
initiatives. Previously, he was Executive Vice President – Store Operations, Commercial, ALLDATA, and Mexico since fiscal 2007. Prior to that time, he was Executive Vice President – Supply Chain, Information Technology, Mexico and Store
Development since fiscal 2006 and before that, Senior Vice President since fiscal 2000 with primary responsibility for store development and Mexico operations. From 1993 to 2000, Mr. Olsen was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Leslie’s Poolmart. From 1985 to 1989, Mr. Olsen held several positions with AutoZone, including Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Vice President–Finance and Controller. In October 2012,
Mr. Olsen announced his plans to retire, effective late December 2012. In conjunction with the announcement, his responsibilities were transitioned to other executive officers.

Charlie Pleas, III, 47—Senior Vice President and Controller, Customer Satisfaction

Charlie Pleas, III, was elected Senior Vice President and Controller during fiscal 2007. Prior to that, he was Vice President and Controller since 2003.
Previously, he was Vice President – Accounting since 2000, and Director of General Accounting since 1996. Prior to joining AutoZone, Mr. Pleas was a Division Controller with Fleming Companies, Inc. where he served in various capacities
since 1988.

Larry M. Roesel, 55—Senior Vice President – Commercial, Customer Satisfaction

Larry M. Roesel was elected AutoZone as Senior Vice President–Commercial during fiscal 2007. Mr. Roesel came to AutoZone with more than
thirty years of experience with OfficeMax, Inc. and its predecessor, where he served in operations, sales and general management.







Michael A. Womack, 45—Senior Vice President – Human Resources, Customer Satisfaction

Michael A. Womack was elected Senior Vice President – Human Resources in June 2012. He was previously Vice President of Human
Resources with Cintas Corp. and had been with Cintas since 2003. Before joining Cintas, he was a law partner with the Littler Mendelson law firm.

