ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

This section describes certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should consider these risk factors when evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, because our actual results and financial condition might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements should these risks occur. We face other risks besides those highlighted below. These other risks include additional uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, but may ultimately have a significant impact. In addition, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may also exacerbate any of these risks, which could have a material effect on us. Should any of these risks, described below or otherwise, actually occur, our business, financial condition, performance, prospects, value, or results of operations could be negatively affected.

MARKET RISKS





Risk or uncertaintyDiscussion

Doing business internationally

We conduct manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to a variety of risks associated with doing business internationally. Implementation and achievement of international growth objectives also may be impeded by political, social, and economic uncertainties or unrest in countries in which we conduct operations or market or distribute our products.

Compliance with multiple, and potentially conflicting, international laws and regulations, import and export limitations, anti-corruption laws, and exchange controls may be difficult, burdensome or expensive.We are subject to compliance with various laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We are also subject to limitations on trade with persons in sanctioned countries. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot assure you that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics.



























Risk or uncertaintyDiscussion

Economic conditions and financial market access

The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.

The COVID-19 pandemic, along with the response to the pandemic by governmental and other actors, has disrupted our operations. We have experienced temporary mandatory and voluntary facility closures in certain jurisdictions in which we operate. Furthermore, we have experienced less demand for some of our products and services as a result of official prohibitions or voluntary deferrals of certain medical procedures, and other factors, which we believe has been exacerbated by the impact of stay-at-home orders. Additionally, the COVID-19 outbreak has, caused temporary disruptions in our supply chain.

Long-term facility closures or other restrictions could materially adversely affect our ability to adequately staff, supply or otherwise maintain our operations. Such restrictions also may have a substantial impact on our Customers and our sales cycles. The COVID-19 pandemic may put pressure on overall spending for our products and services, and may cause our Customers to modify spending priorities or delay or abandon purchasing decisions. Moreover, because a large number of our employees have transitioned to working from home, we may be subject to increased vulnerability to cyber and other information technology risks. We have modified, and may further modify, our business practices in response to the risks and negative impacts associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. However, there can be no assurance that these measures will be temporary or successful.

The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve and its ultimate duration, severity and disruption to our business, Customers and supply chain, and the related financial impact to us, cannot be accurately forecasted at this time. Should such disruption continue for an extended period, the adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition could be more severe. Additionally, continued weak economic conditions generally could result in extended weak demand for our products and services. Furthermore, future public health crises are possible and could involve some or all of the risks discussed above.















Changes in economic climate may adversely affect us.

Adverse economic cycles or conditions, and Customer, regulatory or government response to those cycles or conditions, have affected and could further affect our results of operations. The onset of these cycles or conditions may not be foreseeable and there can be no assurance when they will begin to improve after they occur. There also can be no assurance as to the strength or length of any recovery from a business downturn or recession. Credit and liquidity problems may make it difficult for some businesses to access credit markets and obtain financing and may cause some businesses to curtail spending to conserve cash in anticipation of persistent business slowdowns and liquidity needs. If our Customers have difficulty financing their purchases due to tight credit markets or related factors or because of other operational or utilization problems they may be experiencing or otherwise decide to curtail their purchases, our business could be adversely affected. Our exposure to bad debt losses could also increase if Customers are unable to pay for products previously ordered and delivered.

Many of our Customers are governmental entities or other entities that rely on government healthcare systems or government funding. If government funding for healthcare becomes limited or restricted in countries in which we operate, including as a result of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, our Customers may be unable to pay their obligations on a timely basis or to make payment in full and it may become necessary to increase reserves. In addition, there can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in collection difficulties. Prospectively, additional adverse effects resulting from these conditions may include decreased healthcare utilization, further pricing pressure on our products and services, and/or weaker overall demand for our products and services, particularly capital products.

Our acquisition activity and ability to grow organically may be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to access the financial markets.Our recent acquisitions have been financed largely through cash on hand and borrowings under our bank credit facilities. Future acquisitions or other capital requirements will necessitate additional cash.  To the extent our existing sources of cash are insufficient to fund these or other future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through new or expanded borrowing arrangements or equity.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funds beyond those available under existing bank credit facilities on terms favorable to us, or at all, or that such facilities can be replaced when they terminate.









LEGAL, REGULATORY AND TAX RISKS





Risk or uncertaintyDiscussion

Healthcare laws and reimbursement

Changes in healthcare laws or government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels to healthcare providers, or failure to meet healthcare reimbursement or other requirements, might negatively impact our business.

We sell many of our products and services to hospitals and other healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers. Many of these Customers are subject to or supported by government programs or receive reimbursement for services from third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., private insurance plans, and managed care programs. Reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Government-managed healthcare systems control reimbursement for healthcare services in many countries. Public budgetary constraints may significantly impact the ability of hospitals, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other Customers supported by such systems to purchase our products. Government or other third-party payors may deny or change coverage, reduce their current levels of reimbursement for healthcare services, or otherwise implement measures to regulate pricing or contain costs. In addition, our costs may increase more rapidly than reimbursement levels or permissible pricing increases or we may not satisfy the standards or requirements for reimbursement.

Among other provisions, the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, imposed an excise tax on medical devices manufactured or offered for sale in the United States. Late in 2019, U.S. Congress enacted legislation that repealed the excise tax, which had been suspended during calendar years 2016 through 2019. In addition, we have been required to commit significant resources to “Sunshine Act” compliance. Various additional health care reform proposals have emerged at the federal and state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any, of those proposals will be enacted.



















Risk or uncertaintyDiscussion

Product and service related regulations and claims

We are subject to extensive regulatory requirements and must receive and maintain regulatory clearance or approval for many products and operations. Failure to receive or maintain, or delays in receiving, clearance or approvals may hurt our revenues, profitability, financial condition, or value.

Our operations are subject to extensive regulation in the countries where we do business.  In the United States, our products and services are regulated by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In many foreign countries, sales of our products and services are subject to extensive regulations that may or may not be comparable to those of the FDA. In Europe, our products are regulated primarily by country and community regulations of those countries within the European Economic Area and must conform to the requirements of those authorities.

Government regulation applies to nearly all aspects of testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storing, recordkeeping, reporting, promoting, distributing, and importing or exporting of medical devices, products, and services. In general, unless an exemption applies, a sterilization, decontamination or medical device or product or service must receive regulatory approval or clearance before it can be marketed or sold. Modifications to existing products or the marketing of new uses for existing products also may require regulatory approvals, approval supplements or clearances. If we are unable to obtain any required approvals, approval supplements or clearances for any modification to a previously cleared or approved device, we may be required to cease manufacturing and sale, or recall or restrict the use of such modified device, pay fines, or take other action until such time as appropriate clearance or approval is obtained.

Regulatory agencies may refuse to grant approval or clearance, or review and disagree with our interpretation of approvals or clearances, or with our decision that regulatory approval is not required or has been maintained. Regulatory submissions may require the provision of additional data and may be time consuming and costly, and their outcome is uncertain. Regulatory agencies may also change policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay approval or clearance of devices, or could impact our ability to market a previously cleared, approved, or unregulated device. Our failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements in the United States or elsewhere might subject us to administratively or judicially imposed sanctions. These sanctions include, among others, warning letters, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, injunctions, debarment, product seizure or detention, product recalls and total or partial suspension of production, sale and/or promotion.



The COVID-19 pandemic may disrupt the operations of regulatory bodies with responsibility for oversight of healthcare and health and medical products. Such disruptions could result in the focus and prioritization of regulatory resources on emergent matters, which could divert regulatory resources away from more routine regulatory matters that are not COVID-19 related but that have the potential to impact our business. For example, there could be delays in FDA review of applications for marketing authorization, including those which may be necessary for or in connection with proposed changes to our products or the changes to the processes by which they are manufactured. It is unknown how long these disruptions could continue, were they to occur. Any elongation or de-prioritization or delay in regulatory review resulting from such disruptions could materially affect our ongoing device design, development, and commercialization plans.













Our products are subject to recalls and restrictions, even after receiving United States or foreign regulatory clearance or approval.Ongoing medical device reporting regulations require that we report to appropriate governmental authorities in the United States and/or other countries when our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. Governmental authorities can require product recalls or impose restrictions for product design, manufacturing, labeling, clearance, or other issues. For the same reasons, we may voluntarily elect to recall or restrict the use of a product. Any recall or restriction could divert managerial and financial resources and might harm our reputation among our Customers and other healthcare professionals who use or recommend our products and services.

We may be adversely affected by product liability claims or other legal actions or regulatory or compliance matters.

We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims and other legal and regulatory actions. A significant increase in the number, severity, amount, or scope of these claims and actions may, as described above with respect to recalls and restrictions, result in substantial costs and harm our reputation or otherwise adversely affect product sales and our business. Product liability claims and other legal and regulatory actions may also distract management from other business responsibilities.

We are also subject to a variety of other types of claims, proceedings, investigations, and litigation initiated by government agencies or third parties and other potential risks and liabilities. These include compliance matters, product regulation or safety, taxes, employee benefit plans, employment discrimination, health and safety, environmental, antitrust, customs, import/export, government contract compliance, financial controls or reporting, intellectual property, allegations of misrepresentation, false claims or false statements, commercial claims, claims regarding promotion of our products and services, or other similar or different matters. Any such claims, proceedings, investigations or litigation, regardless of the merits, might result in substantial costs, restrictions on product use or sales, or otherwise injure our business.

Administratively or judicially imposed or agreed sanctions might include warning letters, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, loss of tax benefits, injunctions, product seizure, recalls, suspensions or restrictions, re-labeling, detention, and/or debarment. We also might be required to take actions such as payment of substantial amounts, or revision of financial statements, or to take, or be subject to, the following types of actions with respect to our products, services, or business: redesign, re-label, restrict, or recall products; cease manufacturing and selling products; seizure of product inventory; comply with a court injunction restricting or prohibiting further marketing and sale of products or services; comply with a consent decree, which could result in further regulatory constraints; dedication of significant internal and external resources and costs to respond to and comply with legal and regulatory issues and constraints; respond to claims, litigation, and other proceedings brought by Customers, users, governmental agencies, and others; disruption of product improvements and product launches; discontinuation of certain product lines or services; or other restrictions or limitations on product sales, use or operation, or other activities or business practices.

Some product replacements or substitutions may not be possible or may be prohibitively costly or time consuming. The impact of any legal, regulatory, or compliance claims, proceeding, investigation, or litigation, is difficult to predict.

We maintain product liability and other insurance with coverages believed to be adequate. However, product liability or other claims may exceed insurance coverage limits, fines, penalties and regulatory sanctions may not be covered by insurance, or insurance may not continue to be available or available on commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, our insurers might deny claim coverage for valid or other reasons or may become insolvent.













Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by difficulties in acquiring or maintaining a proprietary intellectual ownership position.To maintain our competitive position for our products, we need to obtain patent or other proprietary rights for new and improved products and to maintain and enforce our existing patents and other proprietary rights. We typically apply for patents in the United States and in strategic other countries. We may also acquire patents through acquisitions. We may encounter difficulties in obtaining or protecting patents.We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, and confidentiality agreements to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These measures afford only limited protection, and competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Litigation may also be brought against us claiming that we have violated the intellectual property rights of others. Litigation may be costly and may divert management’s attention from other matters. Additionally, in some foreign countries with weaker intellectual property rights, it may be difficult to maintain and enforce patents and other proprietary rights or defend against claims of infringement.

Tax and trade risks

Current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction subject to significant change.The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) was signed into law on December 22, 2017. Guidance continues to be issued clarifying the application of this new legislation. We cannot predict the overall impact that the additional guidance may have on our business. It is reasonable to expect that global taxing authorities will be reviewing current legislation for potential modifications in reaction to the implementation of the TCJA. In addition, further changes in the tax laws of other jurisdictions could arise, including as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, has issued recommendations that, in some cases, would make substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax positions and principles. These contemplated changes, to the extent adopted by OECD members and/or other countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our provision for income taxes.

Our tax rate is uncertain and may vary from expectations, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and earnings per share.There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain any particular worldwide effective corporate tax rate. We cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions in which we and our affiliates operate. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectations, and such variance may be material. Additionally, tax laws or their implementation and applicable tax authority practices in any particular jurisdiction could change in the future, possibly on a retroactive basis, and any such change could have a material adverse impact on us and our affiliates.

Changes in tax treaties and trade agreements could negatively impact our costs, results of operations and earnings per share.Legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the U.S. which, if ultimately adopted, could override or otherwise adversely impact tax treaties upon which we rely or broaden the circumstances under which STERIS plc would be considered a U.S. resident, each of which could materially and adversely affect our tax obligations. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative or regulatory proposals. However, if proposals were adopted that had the effect of disregarding our organization in Ireland or limiting our ability as an Irish company to take advantage of tax treaties with the U.S., we could be subject to increased taxation and/or potentially significant expense.Existing free trade laws and regulations provide certain beneficial duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports, subject to compliance with the applicable classification and other requirements. Changes in laws and regulations or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, and in particular, increased trade restrictions, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, tariffs or taxes on imports from countries where we manufacture products could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.













Proposed legislation relating to the denial of U.S. federal or state governmental contracts to U.S. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business.Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to redomiciled companies may adversely affect us if adopted into law. We are unable to predict the likelihood that any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments or increased regulatory scrutiny could have on our business.

The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) may not agree that we are a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.

Although we are organized under the laws of Ireland and are a tax resident in Ireland for Irish tax purposes, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code” and such Section, “Section 7874”). For U.S. federal tax purposes, a company generally is considered to be a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization. Because we are organized under the laws of Ireland, we would generally be classified as a non-U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. Section 7874, however, provides an exception to this general rule under which a non-U.S. organized entity may be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.

If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, we could be subject to substantial additional U.S. tax liability. Additionally, if we were treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, non-U.S. holders of our ordinary shares would be subject to U.S. withholding tax on the gross amount of any dividends we paid to such shareholders. For Irish tax purposes, we are expected, regardless of any application of Section 7874, to be treated as an Ireland tax resident. Consequently, if we are treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874, we could be liable for both U.S. and Ireland taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL RISKS





Risk or uncertaintyDiscussion

Competition

Our businesses are highly competitive, and if we fail to compete successfully, our revenues and results of operations may be hurt.We operate in a highly competitive global environment. Our businesses compete with other broad-line manufacturers, as well as many smaller businesses specializing in particular products or services, primarily on the basis of brand, design, quality, safety, ease of use, serviceability, price, product features, warranty, delivery, service, and technical support. We face increased competition from new infection prevention, sterile processing, contamination control, surgical support, cleaning consumables, gastrointestinal endoscopy accessories, contract sterilization, and other products and services entering the market. Competitors and potential competitors also are attempting to develop alternate technologies and sterilizing agents, as well as disposable medical instruments and other devices designed to address the risk of contamination.

Consolidations among our healthcare and pharmaceutical Customers may result in a loss of Customers or more significant pricing pressures.A number of our Customers have consolidated. These consolidations are due in part to healthcare cost reduction measures initiated by competitive pressures as well as legislators, regulators and third-party payors. This may result in greater pricing pressures on us and in some cases loss of Customers. Additional consolidations could result in a loss of Customers or more significant pricing pressures.













Decreased availability or increased costs of raw materials or energy supplies or other supplies might increase our production costs or limit our production capabilities or curtail our operations.We purchase raw materials, fabricated and other components, and energy supplies from a variety of suppliers. Key materials include stainless steel, organic and inorganic chemicals, fuel, cobalt-60, EO, and plastic components. The availability and prices of raw materials and energy supplies are subject to volatility and are influenced by worldwide economic conditions, speculative action, world supply and demand balances, inventory levels, availability of substitute materials, currency exchange rates, anticipated or perceived shortages, and other factors. Also, certain of our key materials and components have a limited number of suppliers. Some are single-sourced in certain regions of the world, such as cobalt-60 and EO, which are necessary to our AST operations. Changes in regulatory requirements regarding the use of, the unavailability or short supply of these products might disrupt or cause shutdowns of portions of our AST operations or have other adverse consequences. We have developed a plan to expand our irradiation processing capacity with accelerator-based technologies which may reduce the potential supply risk. Shortages in supply, increased regulatory or security requirements, or increases in the price of raw materials, components and energy supplies may adversely affect us.

Our operations, and those of our suppliers, are subject to a variety of business continuity hazards and risks, any of which could interrupt production or operations or otherwise adversely affect our performance, results, or value.

Business continuity hazards and other risks include: explosions, fires, earthquakes, public health crises, inclement weather, and other disasters;  utility or other mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; labor difficulties; inability to obtain or maintain any required licenses or permits; disruption of communications; data security, preservation and redundancy disruptions; inability to hire or retain key management or employees; disruption of supply or distribution; and regulation of the safety, security or other aspects of our operations.The occurrence of these types of events has disrupted and may in the future disrupt or shut down operations, or otherwise adversely impact the production or profitability of a particular facility, or our operations as a whole. Certain casualties also might cause personal injury and loss of life, or severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and for casualties occurring at our facilities, result in liability claims against us. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance and liability and similar insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for our industries, our insurance coverages have limits and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business.























Our operations are subject to regulations and permitting, which may be changed or amended by the relevant authorities, and which may limit or eliminate our current operations or increase the complexity, burden, or expense of compliance and regulated materials or processes that we use in our operations may become the focus of litigation.

We engage in acquisitions and affiliations, divestitures, and other business arrangements. Our growth may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully identify, price, and integrate strategic business candidates or otherwise optimize our business portfolio.

Our success depends, in part, on strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, which are intended to complement or expand our businesses, divestiture of non-strategic businesses, and other actions intended to optimize our portfolio of businesses. This strategy depends upon our ability to identify, appropriately price, and complete these types of business development transactions or arrangements and to obtain any necessary financing. In the last several fiscal years we have made a number of acquisitions. We also completed several divestitures of non-strategic businesses or product lines during the last several years.

Our success with respect to these recent and future acquisitions will depend on our ability to integrate the businesses acquired, retain key personnel, realize identified cost synergies and otherwise execute our strategies. Our success will also depend on our ability to develop satisfactory working arrangements with our strategic partners in joint ventures or other affiliations, or to divest or realign businesses. Competition for strategic business candidates may result in increases in costs and price for acquisition candidates and market valuation issues may reduce the value available for divestiture of non-strategic businesses. These types of transactions are also subject to a number of other risks and uncertainties, including: delays in realizing or failure to realize anticipated benefits of the transactions; diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns; difficulties in retaining key employees, Customers, or suppliers of the acquired or divested businesses; difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, or other integration or divestiture difficulties; adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or Customers; other events contributing to difficulties in generating future cash flows; risks associated with the assumption of contingent or other liabilities of acquisition targets or retention of liabilities for divested businesses and difficulties in obtaining financing.

If our continuing efforts to create a lean business and in-source production to reduce costs are not successful, our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected.We have undertaken various activities to create a lean business, including in-sourcing.  We continue to look for opportunities to in-source production that is currently provided by third parties.These activities may not produce the full efficiencies and cost reduction benefits that we expect or efficiencies and benefits might be delayed. Implementation costs also might exceed expectations.













The COVID-19 pandemic or similar public health crises could have a material adverse impact on ability to staff our operations.As supplier to Healthcare and Life Sciences Customers, we fall within a “critical infrastructure” sector, and are also considered an essential business and therefore exempt under various stay at home/shelter in place orders. Accordingly, our employees continue to work because of the importance of our operations to the health and well-being of citizens in the countries in which we operate. We have implemented telework policies wherever possible for appropriate categories of employees. However, our employees that are unable to telework continue to work at our facilities and those of our Customers, and we have implemented appropriate safety measures, such as social distancing and increased cleaning protocols. While we believe that we have taken appropriate measures to ensure the health and well-being of our employees, there can be no assurances that our measures will be sufficient to protect our employees in our workplace or that they may not otherwise be exposed to COVID-19 outside of our workplace. If a number of our essential employees become ill, incapacitated or are otherwise unable or unwilling to continue working during the current or any future health crises, our operations may be adversely impacted.

Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to recruit and retain qualified management and other personnel or other compliance matters adversely impact our personnel.Our continued success depends, in large part, on our ability to hire and retain highly qualified people and if we are unable to do so, our business and operations may be impaired or disrupted. Competition for highly qualified people is intense and there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining replacements to fill vacant positions, successors to fill retirements or employees moving to new positions, or other highly qualified personnel. In addition, legal, regulatory or compliance matters create significant distraction or diversion of significant or unanticipated resources or attention that could have a material adverse effect on the responsibilities and retention of qualified employees.

We could experience a failure of a key information technology system, process or site or a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity breach or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers.





