Item 1.    Business



General



Target Corporation (Target, the Corporation or the Company) was incorporated in Minnesota in 1902. We offer our customers, referred to as "guests," both everyday essentials and fashionable, differentiated merchandise at discounted prices. Our ability to deliver a preferred shopping experience to our guests is supported by our strong supply chain and technology infrastructure, a devotion to innovation that is ingrained in our organization and culture, and our disciplined approach to managing our business and investing in future growth.

We operate as two reportable segments: U.S. and Canadian. Our U.S. Segment includes all of our U.S. retail operations, which are designed to enable guests to purchase products seamlessly in stores, online or through mobile devices.  The U.S. Segment also includes our credit card servicing activities and certain centralized operating and corporate activities not allocated to our Canadian Segment. Our Canadian Segment includes all of our Canadian retail operations, including 124 stores opened during 2013. We currently do not have a digital sales channel within our Canadian Segment.

Prior to the first quarter of 2013, we operated a U.S. Credit Card Segment that offered credit to qualified guests through our branded credit cards: the Target Credit Card and the Target Visa Credit Card. In the first quarter of 2013, we sold our U.S. consumer credit card portfolio, and TD Bank Group (TD) now underwrites, funds and owns Target Credit Card and Target Visa consumer receivables in the U.S.  We perform account servicing and primary marketing functions and earn a substantial portion of the profits generated by the portfolio.  Following the sale of our U.S. consumer credit card portfolio to TD, we combined our historical U.S. Retail Segment and U.S. Credit Card Segment into one U.S. Segment. Refer to Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for more information on the credit card receivables transaction and segment change.



Data Breach



During the fourth quarter of 2013, we experienced a data breach in which an intruder stole certain payment card and other guest information from our network (the Data Breach). For further information about the Data Breach, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



Financial Highlights



For information about our fiscal years, see Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplemental Data - Note 1, Summary of Accounting Policies, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

For information on key financial highlights and segment financial information, see the items referenced in Item 6, Selected Financial Data, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplemental Data — Note 28, Segment Reporting, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Seasonality



A larger share of annual revenues and earnings traditionally occurs in the fourth quarter because it includes the peak sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December.



Merchandise



We sell a wide assortment of general merchandise and food. Our general merchandise and CityTarget stores offer an edited food assortment, including perishables, dry grocery, dairy and frozen items, while our SuperTarget stores offer a full line of food items comparable to traditional supermarkets. Our digital channels include a wide assortment of general merchandise, including many items found in our stores and a complementary assortment, such as extended sizes and colors, that are only sold online.










A significant portion of our sales is from national brand merchandise. Approximately one-third of2013sales related to our owned and exclusive brands, including but not limited to the following:



Owned BrandsArcher Farms®Gilligan & O'Malley®Sutton & Dodge®Simply Balanced™Market Pantry®Threshold™Boots & Barkley®Merona®up & up®CHEFS®Room Essentials®Wine Cube®Circo®Smith & Hawken®Xhilaration®Embark®Spritz™Exclusive BrandsAssets® by Sarah BlakelyGenuine Kids from OshKosh®Nate Berkus for Target®C9 by Champion®Giada De Laurentiis™ for Target®Nick & Nora®Carlton®Harajuku Mini for Target®Shaun WhiteChefmate®Just One You made by Carter'sSimply Shabby Chic®Cherokee®Kid Made Modern®Sonia Kashuk®Converse® One Star®Kitchen Essentials® from Calphalon®Thomas O'Brien®dENiZEN™ from Levi's®Liz Lange® for TargetFieldcrest®Mossimo Supply Company®



We also sell merchandise through periodic exclusive design and creative partnerships, and also generate revenue from in-store amenities such as Target Café, Target Clinic, Target Pharmacy and Target Photo, and leased or licensed departments such as Target Optical, Pizza Hut, Portrait Studio and Starbucks.



Distribution



The vast majority of merchandise is distributed to our stores through our network of 40 distribution centers, 37 in the United States and 3 in Canada. General merchandise is shipped to and from our distribution centers by common carriers. Certain food items and other merchandise  is shipped directly to our stores in the U.S. and Canada by vendors or third party distributors.



Employees



AtFebruary 1, 2014, we employed approximately 366,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees, referred to as "team members." During our peak sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December, our employment levels peaked at approximately 416,000 team members. We offer a broad range of company-paid benefits to our team members. Eligibility for, and the level of, these benefits varies, depending on team members' full-time or part-time status, compensation level, date of hire and/or length of service. These company-paid benefits include a pension plan,

401(k) plan, medical and dental plans, a retiree medical plan, disability insurance, paid vacation, tuition reimbursement, various team member assistance programs, life insurance and merchandise discounts. We believe our team member relations are good.



Working Capital



Our working capital needs are greater in the months leading up to our peak sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December, which we typically finance with cash flow provided by operations and short-term borrowings. Additional details are provided in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Effective inventory management is key to our ongoing success. We use various techniques including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. We achieve effective inventory management by being in-stock in core product offerings, maintaining positive vendor relationships, and carefully planning inventory levels for seasonal and apparel items to minimize markdowns.












Competition



We compete with traditional and off-price general merchandise retailers, apparel retailers, internet retailers, wholesale clubs, category specific retailers, drug stores, supermarkets and other forms of retail commerce. Our ability to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers and provide a compelling value proposition largely determine our competitive position within the retail industry.



Intellectual Property



Our brand image is a critical element of our business strategy. Our principal trademarks, including Target, SuperTarget and our "Bullseye Design," have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We also seek to obtain and preserve intellectual property protection for our owned brands.



Geographic Information



The vast majority of our revenues are generated within the United States. During 2013, a modest percentage of our revenues were generated in Canada. The vast majority of our long-lived assets are located within the United States and Canada.



Available Information



Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge at www.Target.com/Investors as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Conduct Guide, Corporate Responsibility Report and the position descriptions for our Board of Directors and Board committees are also available free of charge in print upon request or at www.Target.com/Investors.












