Item 1.    Business



General



Target Corporation (Target, the Corporation or the Company) was incorporated in Minnesota in 1902. We offer our customers, referred to as "guests," everyday essentials and fashionable, differentiated merchandise at discounted prices. Our ability to deliver a preferred shopping experience to our guests is supported by our strong supply chain and technology infrastructure, an ingrained devotion to innovation, and our disciplined approach to managing our business and investing in future growth.

Prior to the first quarter of 2013, we operated a U.S. Credit Card Segment that offered credit to qualified guests through our branded credit cards: the Target Credit Card and the Target Visa Credit Card. In the first quarter of 2013, we sold our U.S. consumer credit card portfolio, and TD Bank Group (TD) now underwrites, funds and owns Target Credit Card and Target Visa consumer receivables in the U.S.  We perform account servicing and primary marketing functions and earn a substantial portion of the profits generated by the portfolio. Refer to Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (the Financial Statements) for more information on the credit card receivables transaction.



Prior to January 15, 2015, we operated a Canadian segment. On January 15, 2015, we announced our exit from the Canadian market and Target Canada Co. and certain other wholly owned subsidiaries of Target filed for protection (the Filing) in Canada under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act (CCAA) with the Ontario Superior Court of Justice in Toronto. Following the Filing, we no longer consolidate our Canadian retail operation.  Canadian financial results prior to the Filing are included in our financial statements and classified within discontinued operations. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and Note 6 of the Financial Statements for more information. Effective January 15, 2015, we operate as a single segment that includes all of our continuing operations, which are designed to enable guests to purchase products seamlessly in stores, online or through mobile devices.



Unless otherwise noted, discussion of our business and results of operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to our continuing operations.



Financial Highlights



For information on key financial highlights and segment financial information, see the items referenced in Item 6, Selected Financial Data, MD&A and Note 28 of the Financial Statements.



Seasonality



A larger share of annual revenues and earnings traditionally occurs in the fourth quarter because it includes the peak sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December.



Merchandise



We sell a wide assortment of general merchandise and food through our store and digital channels. Our general merchandise stores offer an edited food assortment, including perishables, dry grocery, dairy and frozen items while our SuperTarget stores offer a full line of food items comparable to traditional supermarkets. Our urban format stores, CityTarget and TargetExpress, offer edited general merchandise and food assortments. Our digital channels include a wide assortment of general merchandise, including many items found in our stores, along with a complementary assortment such as additional sizes and colors sold only online.












A significant portion of our sales is from national brand merchandise. Approximately one-third of2014sales related to our owned and exclusive brands, including but not limited to the following:



Owned BrandsArcher Farms®Market Pantry®Threshold™Simply Balanced™Merona®up & up®Boots & Barkley®Room Essentials®Wine Cube®Circo®Smith & Hawken®Xhilaration®Embark®Spritz™Gilligan & O'Malley®Sutton & Dodge®Exclusive BrandsAssets® by Sarah BlakelydENiZEN™ from Levi's®Nate Berkus for Target®Ava & Viv®Fieldcrest®Nick & Nora®C9 by Champion®Genuine Kids from OshKosh®Papyrus®Carlton®Just One You made by Carter'sShaun WhiteChefmate®Kid Made Modern®Simply Shabby Chic®Cherokee®Liz Lange® for TargetSonia Kashuk®Converse® One Star®Mossimo Supply Company®



We also sell merchandise through periodic exclusive design and creative partnerships and generate revenue from in-store amenities such as Target Café, Target Clinic, Target Pharmacy and Target Photo, and leased or licensed departments such as Target Optical, Pizza Hut, Portrait Studio and Starbucks.



Distribution



The vast majority of merchandise is distributed to our stores through our network of 38 distribution centers. Common carriers ship general merchandise to and from our distribution centers. Vendors or third party distributors ship certain food items and other merchandise directly to our stores.



Employees



AtJanuary 31, 2015, we employed approximately 347,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees, referred to as "team members." During the sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December, our employment levels peaked at approximately 447,000 team members. We offer a broad range of company-paid benefits to our team members. Eligibility for, and the level of, these benefits varies depending on team members' full-time or part-time status, compensation level, date of hire and/or length of service. These company-paid benefits include a pension plan, 401(k) plan, medical and dental plans, a retiree medical plan, disability insurance, paid vacation, tuition reimbursement, various team member assistance programs, life insurance and merchandise discounts. We believe our team member relations are good.



Working Capital



Our working capital needs are greater in the months leading up to our peak sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December, which we typically finance with cash flow provided by operations and short-term borrowings. Additional details are provided in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in MD&A.



Effective inventory management is key to our ongoing success, and we use various techniques including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. We achieve effective inventory management by being in-stock in core product offerings, maintaining positive vendor relationships, and carefully planning inventory levels for seasonal and apparel items to minimize markdowns.












Competition



We compete with traditional and off-price general merchandise retailers, apparel retailers, internet retailers, wholesale clubs, category specific retailers, drug stores, supermarkets and other forms of retail commerce. Our ability to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers and provide a compelling value proposition largely determine our competitive position within the retail industry.



Intellectual Property



Our brand image is a critical element of our business strategy. Our principal trademarks, including Target, SuperTarget and our "Bullseye Design," have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We also seek to obtain and preserve intellectual property protection for our owned brands.



Geographic Information



Virtually all of our revenues from continuing operations are generated within the United States. Through 2014, our discontinued Canadian operations generated revenues in Canada. The vast majority of our long-lived assets are located within the United States.



Data Breach



During the fourth quarter of 2013, we experienced a data breach in which an intruder stole certain payment card and other guest information from our network (the Data Breach). For further information, see MD&A and Note 17 of the Financial Statements.



Available Information



Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge at www.Target.com/Investors as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Conduct Guide, Corporate Responsibility Report and the position descriptions for our Board of Directors and Board committees are also available free of charge in print upon request or at www.Target.com/Investors.












