Item 1.    Business

General

Target Corporation (the Corporation or Target) was incorporated in Minnesota in 1902. We operate as two reportable segments: Retail and
Credit Card.

Our
Retail Segment includes all of our merchandising operations, including our large-format general merchandise and food discount stores in the United States and our fully integrated
online business. We offer both everyday essentials and fashionable, differentiated merchandise at discounted prices. Our ability to deliver a shopping experience that is preferred by our customers,
referred to as "guests," is supported by our strong supply chain and technology infrastructure, a devotion to innovation that is ingrained in our organization and culture, and our disciplined approach
to managing our current business and investing in future growth. As a component of the Retail Segment, our online business strategy is designed to enable guests to purchase products seamlessly either
online or by locating them in one of our stores with the aid of online research and location tools. Our online shopping site offers similar merchandise categories to those found in our stores,
excluding food items and household essentials.

Our
Credit Card Segment offers credit to qualified guests through our branded proprietary credit cards, the Target Visa and the Target Card (collectively, REDcards). Our Credit Card
Segment strengthens the bond with our guests, drives incremental sales and contributes to our results of operations.

Financial Highlights

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest January 31. Unless otherwise stated, references to years in this report relate to
fiscal years, rather than to calendar years. Fiscal year 2009 (2009) ended January 30, 2010, and consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2008 (2008) ended January 31, 2009 and
consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2007 (2007) ended February 2, 2008 and consisted of 52 weeks.

For
information on key financial highlights, see the items referenced in Item 6, Selected Financial Data, and Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Seasonality

Due to the seasonal nature of our business, a larger share of annual revenues and earnings traditionally occurs in the fourth quarter
because it includes the peak sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December.

Merchandise

SM

SM











amenities
such as Target CaféSM, Target Clinic®, Target Pharmacy®, and Target PhotoSM, and from leased or licensed departments such
as Optical, Pizza Hut, Portrait Studio and Starbucks.

Effective
inventory management is key to our future success. We utilize various techniques including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. We
achieve effective inventory management by being in-stock in core product offerings, maintaining positive vendor relationships, and carefully planning inventory levels for seasonal and
apparel items to minimize markdowns.

Sales by Product CategoryPercentage of Sales200920082007Household essentials23%22%21%Hardlines222222Apparel and accessories202022Home furnishings and décor192122Food and pet supplies161513Total100%100%100%

Household essentials includes pharmacy, beauty, personal care, baby care, cleaning and paper products. Hardlines includes electronics (including
video game hardware and software), music, movies, books, computer software, sporting goods and toys. Apparel and accessories includes apparel for women, men, boys, girls, toddlers, infants, and
newborns. It also includes intimate apparel, jewelry, accessories and shoes. Home furnishings and décor includes furniture, lighting, kitchenware, small appliances, home
décor, bed and bath, home improvement, automotive and seasonal merchandise such as patio furniture and holiday décor. Food and pet supplies includes dry grocery, dairy,
frozen food, beverages, candy, snacks, deli, bakery, meat, produce and pet supplies.

Distribution

The vast majority of our merchandise is distributed through our network of distribution centers. We operated 38 distribution centers,
including 4 food distribution centers, at January 30, 2010. General merchandise is shipped to and from our distribution centers by common carriers. In addition, certain food items are
distributed by third parties. Merchandise sold through Target.com is distributed through our own distribution network, through third parties, or shipped directly from vendors.

Employees

At January 30, 2010, we employed approximately 351,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees,
referred to as "team members." During our peak sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December, our employment levels peaked at approximately 390,000 team members. We consider our team member
relations to be good. We offer a broad range of company-paid benefits to our team members. Eligibility for, and the level of, these benefits varies, depending on team members'
full-time or part-time status, compensation level, date of hire and/or length of service. These company-paid benefits include a pension plan, 401(k) plan, medical
and dental plans, a retiree medical plan, short-term and long-term disability insurance, paid vacation, tuition reimbursement, various team member assistance programs, life
insurance and merchandise discounts.

Working Capital

Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our working capital needs are greater in the months leading up to our peak sales period
from Thanksgiving to the end of December. The increase in working capital during this time is typically financed with cash flow provided by operations and short-term borrowings.

Additional
details are provided in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Competition

In our Retail Segment, we compete with traditional and off-price general merchandise retailers, apparel retailers, Internet
retailers, wholesale clubs, category specific retailers, drug stores, supermarkets and other











forms
of retail commerce. Our ability to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.

In
our Credit Card Segment, our primary mission is to deliver financial products and services that drive sales and deepen guest relationships at Target. Our financial products compete
with those of other issuers for market share of sales volume. Our ability to differentiate the value of our financial products primarily through our rewards programs, terms, credit line management,
and guest service determines our competitive position among credit card issuers.

Intellectual Property

Our brand image is a critical element of our business strategy. Our principal trademarks, including Target, SuperTarget and our
"Bullseye Design," have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We also seek to obtain intellectual property protection for our private-label brands.

Geographic Information

Substantially all of our revenues are generated in, and long-lived assets are located in, the United States.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge at www.Target.com (click on
"Investors" and "SEC Filings") as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Corporate Governance Guidelines,
Business Conduct Guide, Corporate Responsibility Report and the position descriptions for our Board of Directors and Board committees are also available free of charge in print upon request or at
www.Target.com (click on "Investors" and "Corporate Governance").

