Item 1.    Business

General

Target Corporation (the Corporation or Target) was incorporated in Minnesota in 1902. We operate as three reportable segments: U.S.
Retail, U.S. Credit Card and Canadian.

Our
U.S. Retail Segment includes all of our merchandising operations, including our fully integrated online business. We offer both everyday essentials and fashionable, differentiated
merchandise at discounted prices. Our ability to deliver a shopping experience that is preferred by our customers, referred to as "guests," is supported by our strong supply chain and technology
infrastructure, a devotion to innovation that is ingrained in our organization and culture, and our disciplined approach to managing our current business and investing in future growth. As a component
of the U.S. Retail Segment, our online presence is designed to enable guests to purchase products seamlessly either online or by locating them in one of our stores with the aid of online research and
location tools. Our online shopping site offers similar merchandise categories to those found in our stores, excluding food items and household essentials.

Our
U.S. Credit Card Segment offers credit to qualified guests through our branded proprietary credit cards, the Target Visa and the Target Card. Additionally, we offer a branded
proprietary Target Debit Card. Collectively, these REDcards® help strengthen the bond with our guests, drive incremental sales and contribute to our results of operations.

Our
Canadian Segment was initially reported in the first quarter of 2011 as a result of our purchase of leasehold interests in Canada from Zellers, Inc. (Zellers). This segment
includes costs incurred in the U.S. and Canada related to our planned 2013 Canadian retail market entry.

Financial Highlights

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest January 31. Unless otherwise stated, references to years in this report relate to
fiscal years, rather than to calendar years. Fiscal 2011 ended January 28, 2012, and consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2010 ended January 29, 2011, and consisted of 52 weeks.
Fiscal 2009 ended January 30, 2010, and consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2012 will end on February 2, 2013, and will consist of 53 weeks.

For
information on key financial highlights, see the items referenced in Item 6, Selected Financial Data, and Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Seasonality

Due to the seasonal nature of our business, a larger share of annual revenues and earnings traditionally occurs in the fourth quarter
because it includes the peak sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December.

Merchandise

We operate Target general merchandise stores, the majority of which offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a more limited
food assortment than traditional supermarkets. During the past three years we completed store remodels that enabled us to offer an expanded food assortment in many of our general merchandise stores.
The expanded food assortment includes some perishables and some additional dry, dairy and frozen items. In addition, we operate SuperTarget® stores with general merchandise items and a
full line of food items comparable to that of traditional supermarkets. Target.com offers a wide assortment of general merchandise including many items found in our stores and a complementary
assortment, such as extended sizes and colors, sold only online. A significant portion of our sales is from national brand merchandise. We also sell many products under our owned and exclusive brands.
Owned brands include merchandise sold under private-label brands including, but not limited to, Archer Farms®, Archer Farms® Simply Balanced™, Boots &
Barkley®, choxie®, Circo®,









Durabuilt®,
Embark®, Gilligan & O'Malley®, itso®, Market Pantry®, Merona®, Play Wonder®,
Prospirit®, Room Essentials®, Smith & Hawken®, Spritz™, Sutton & Dodge®, Target Home™, up &
up®, Wine Cube®, and Xhilaration®. In addition, we sell merchandise under exclusive brands including, but not limited to, Assets® by Sarah Blakely,
Auro® by Goldtoe, Boots No7, C9 by Champion®, Chefmate®, Cherokee®, Converse® One Star®, dENiZEN™ by
Levi's®, Fieldcrest®, Genuine Kids by OshKosh®, Giada De Laurentiis™ for Target®, Harajuku Mini for Target®, Just One You made
by Carter's, Kitchen Essentials® from Calphalon®, Liz Lange® for Target, Michael Graves Design™,
Mossimo®, Nick & Nora®, Papyrus, Paul Frank® for Target, Shaun White, Simply Shabby Chic®, Sonia Kashuk® and Thomas
O'Brien® Vintage Modern. We also sell merchandise through unique programs such as ClearRx® and GO International®, and through periodic exclusive design and other
creative partnerships. We also generate revenue from in-store amenities such as Target CaféSM, Target Clinic®, Target Pharmacy® and
Target Photo®, and from leased or licensed departments such as Target Optical®, Pizza Hut, Portrait Studio and Starbucks.

Effective
inventory management is key to our ongoing success. We utilize various techniques including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. We
achieve effective inventory management by being in-stock in core product offerings, maintaining positive vendor relationships, and carefully planning inventory levels for seasonal and
apparel items to minimize markdowns.

Sales by Product CategoryPercentage of Sales201120102009Household essentials25%24%23%Hardlines192022Apparel and accessories192020Food and pet supplies191716Home furnishings and décor181919Total100%100%100%

Household essentialsincludes pharmacy, beauty, personal care, baby care, cleaning and paper
products.

Hardlinesincludes electronics (including video game hardware and software), music, movies, books, computer software, sporting goods and
toys.

Apparel and accessoriesincludes apparel for women, men, boys, girls, toddlers, infants and newborns. It also includes intimate apparel,
jewelry, accessories and shoes.

Food and pet suppliesincludes dry grocery, dairy, frozen food, beverages, candy, snacks, deli, bakery, meat, produce and pet supplies.

Home furnishings and décorincludes furniture, lighting, kitchenware, small appliances, home décor, bed and
bath, home improvement, automotive and seasonal merchandise such as patio furniture and holiday décor.

Distribution

The vast majority of our merchandise is distributed through our network of distribution centers. We operated 37 distribution centers at
January 28, 2012. General merchandise is shipped to and from our distribution centers by common carriers. In addition, third parties distribute certain food items. Merchandise sold through
Target.com is distributed through our own distribution network, through third parties, or shipped directly from vendors.

Employees

At January 28, 2012, we employed approximately 365,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees,
referred to as "team members." During our peak sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December, our employment levels peaked at approximately 414,000 team members. We consider our team member
relations to be good. We offer a broad range of company-paid benefits to our team members. Eligibility for, and the level of, these benefits varies, depending on team members'
full-time or part-time status, compensation level, date of hire









and/or
length of service. These company-paid benefits include a pension plan, 401(k) plan, medical and dental plans, a retiree medical plan, disability insurance, paid vacation, tuition
reimbursement, various team member assistance programs, life insurance and merchandise discounts.

Working Capital

Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our working capital needs are greater in the months leading up to our peak sales period
from Thanksgiving to the end of December. The increase in working capital during this time is typically financed with cash flow provided by operations and short-term borrowings.

Additional
details are provided in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Competition

In our U.S. Retail Segment, we compete with traditional and off-price general merchandise retailers, apparel retailers,
internet retailers, wholesale clubs, category specific retailers, drug stores, supermarkets and other forms of retail commerce in the U.S. Our
ability to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers largely determines our competitive position within the U.S. retail industry. In our Canadian Segment, we will compete with similar
retail categories and will be focused on positively differentiating ourselves within the Canadian retail market.

In
our U.S. Credit Card Segment, our primary mission is to deliver financial products and services that drive sales and deepen guest relationships at Target. Our financial products
compete with those of other issuers for market share of sales volume. Our ability to positively differentiate the value of our financial products primarily through our rewards programs, terms, credit
line management, and guest service determines our competitive position among credit card issuers.

Intellectual Property

Our brand image is a critical element of our business strategy. Our principal trademarks, including Target, SuperTarget and our
"Bullseye Design," have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We also seek to obtain and preserve intellectual property protection for our private-label brands.

Geographic Information

All of our revenues are generated within the United States and a vast majority of our long-lived assets are located within
the U.S. as well. As we expand our operations internationally, a modest percentage of our revenues and long-lived assets will be located in Canada.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge at www.Target.com (click on
"Investor Relations" and "SEC Filings") as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Corporate Governance
Guidelines, Business Conduct Guide, Corporate Responsibility Report and the position descriptions for our Board of Directors and Board committees are also available free of charge in print upon
request or at www.Target.com/Investors.

