Item 1.    Business

General

Target Corporation (the Corporation or Target) was incorporated in Minnesota in 1902. We operate as three reportable segments: U.S. Retail, U.S.
Credit Card and Canadian.

Our
U.S. Retail Segment includes all of our U.S. merchandising operations. We offer both everyday essentials and fashionable, differentiated merchandise at discounted prices. Our ability to deliver a
shopping experience that is preferred by our customers, referred to as "guests," is supported by our strong supply chain and technology infrastructure, a devotion to innovation that is ingrained in
our organization and culture, and our disciplined approach to managing our current business and investing in future growth. Our business is designed to enable guests to purchase products seamlessly in
stores, online or through their mobile device.

Our
U.S. Credit Card Segment offers credit to qualified guests through our branded proprietary credit cards: the Target Credit Card and the Target Visa. Additionally, we offer a branded proprietary
Target Debit Card. Collectively, these REDcards® help strengthen the bond with our guests, drive incremental sales and contribute to our results of operations. In the first quarter of
2013, we sold our credit card receivables portfolio. Subsequent to the sale, we will perform account servicing and primary marketing functions, and will earn a substantial portion of the profits
generated by the portfolio. The transaction does not impact Target's 5% REDcard Rewards loyalty program and will have minimal impact on Target's current cardholders and guests. Beginning with the
first quarter of 2013, income from the profit-sharing arrangement, net of account servicing expenses, will be recognized as an offset to selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, and we
will no longer report a U.S. Credit Card Segment. Refer to Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
for more information on our credit card receivables transaction.

Our
Canadian Segment includes costs incurred in the U.S. and Canada related to our 2013 Canadian retail market entry.

Financial Highlights

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest January 31. Unless otherwise stated, references to years in this report relate to fiscal years,
rather than to calendar years. Fiscal 2012 ended on February 2, 2013, and consisted of 53 weeks. Fiscal 2011 ended January 28, 2012, and consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2010
ended January 29, 2011, and consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2013 will end on February 1, 2014, and will consist of 52 weeks.

For
information on key financial highlights and segment financial information, see the items referenced in Item 6, Selected Financial Data, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplemental Data — Note 29, Segment Reporting, of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Seasonality

Due to the seasonal nature of our business, a larger share of annual revenues and earnings traditionally occurs in the fourth quarter because it
includes the peak sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December.

Merchandise

We sell a wide assortment of general merchandise and food in our stores. Our general merchandise and CityTarget stores offer a food assortment on a
smaller scale than traditional supermarkets, while our SuperTarget stores offer a









full
line of food items comparable to traditional supermarkets. Over the past several years, we remodeled many of our general merchandise stores to expand the food assortment to include perishables
and additional
dry grocery, dairy and frozen items. Our digital channels include a wide assortment of general merchandise, including many items found in our stores and a complementary assortment, such as extended
sizes and colors, that are only sold online.

A
significant portion of our sales is from national brand merchandise. Approximately one-third of total sales in 2012 related to our owned and exclusive brands, including but not limited
to the following:

Owned BrandsArcher Farms®Market Pantry®Spritz™Archer Farms® Simply Balanced™Merona®Sutton & Dodge®Boots & Barkley®Play Wonder®Threshold™Circo®Prospirit®up & up®Embark®Room Essentials®Wine Cube®Gilligan & O'Malley®Smith & Hawken®Xhilaration®Exclusive BrandsAssets® by Sarah BlakelyGenuine Kids by OshKosh®Nate Berkus for Target®Auro® by GoldtoeGiada De Laurentiis™ for Target®Nick & Nora®C9 by Champion®Harajuku Mini for Target®Paul Frank® for TargetChefmate®Just One You made by Carter'sShaun WhiteCherokee®Kitchen Essentials® from Calphalon®Simply Shabby Chic®Converse® One Star®Liz Lange® for TargetSonia Kashuk®dENiZEN™ by Levi's®Mossimo®Thomas O'Brien® Vintage ModernFieldcrest®

Merchandise
is also sold through periodic exclusive design and creative partnerships. We also generate revenue from in-store amenities such as Target Café, Target Clinic,
Target Pharmacy and Target Photo, and leased or licensed departments such as Target Optical, Pizza Hut, Portrait Studio and Starbucks.

Sales by Product CategoryPercentage of Sales201220112010Household essentials(a)25%25%24%Hardlines(b)181920Apparel and accessories(c)191920Food and pet supplies(d)201917Home furnishings and décor(e)181819Total100%100%100%

(a)Includes pharmacy, beauty, personal care, baby care, cleaning and paper products.(b)Includes electronics (including video game
hardware and software), music, movies, books, computer software, sporting goods and toys.(c)Includes apparel for women, men, boys, girls, toddlers, infants and newborns, as well as
intimate apparel, jewelry, accessories and
shoes.(d)Includes dry grocery, dairy, frozen food, beverages, candy, snacks, deli, bakery, meat, produce and pet supplies.(e)Includes furniture, lighting, kitchenware, small appliances, home décor, bed and bath, home improvement, automotive and
seasonal merchandise such as patio furniture and holiday décor.

Distribution

The vast majority of our merchandise is distributed through our network of 40 distribution centers, 37 in the United States and 3 in Canada. General
merchandise is shipped to and from
our distribution centers by common carriers. In addition, third parties distribute certain food items in the U.S. and Canada. Merchandise sold through Target.com is distributed through our own
distribution network, through third parties, or shipped directly from vendors.









Employees

At February 2, 2013, we employed approximately 361,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees, referred to as
"team members." During our peak sales period from Thanksgiving to the end of December, our employment levels peaked at approximately 409,000 team members. We offer a broad range of
company-paid benefits to our team members. Eligibility for, and the level of, these benefits varies, depending on team members' full-time or part-time status,
compensation level, date of hire and/or length of service. These company-paid benefits include a pension plan, 401(k) plan, medical and dental plans, a retiree medical plan, disability
insurance, paid vacation, tuition reimbursement, various team member assistance programs, life insurance and merchandise discounts. We consider our team member relations to be good.

Working Capital

Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our working capital needs are greater in the months leading up to our peak sales period from
Thanksgiving to the end of December. The increase in working capital during this time is typically financed with cash flow provided by operations and short-term borrowings. Additional
details are provided in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Effective
inventory management is key to our ongoing success. We utilize various techniques including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. We achieve
effective inventory management by being in-stock in core product offerings, maintaining positive vendor relationships, and carefully planning inventory levels for seasonal and apparel
items to minimize markdowns.

Competition

We compete with traditional and off-price general merchandise retailers, apparel retailers, internet retailers, wholesale clubs, category
specific retailers, drug stores, supermarkets and other forms of retail commerce. Our ability to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers largely determines our competitive position
within the retail industry.

Intellectual Property

Our brand image is a critical element of our business strategy. Our principal trademarks, including Target, SuperTarget and our "Bullseye Design,"
have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We also seek to obtain and preserve intellectual property protection for our owned brands.

Geographic Information

Through 2012, all of our revenues were generated within the United States. Beginning in fiscal 2013, a modest percentage of our revenues will be
generated in Canada. The vast majority of our long-lived assets are located within the United States and Canada.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge at www.Target.com/Investors as soon as reasonably
practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Conduct Guide, Corporate Responsibility
Report and the position descriptions for our Board of Directors and Board committees are also available free of charge in print upon request or at www.Target.com/Investors.











