Item 1.    Business.



All references in this report to “Registrant,”
“Company,” “Schlumberger,” “we” or “our” are to Schlumberger Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world’s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and information solutions to the international oil and gas exploration and production
industry. Having invented wireline logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and gas wells, the company today provides the industry’s widest range of products and services from exploration through production. As of
December 31, 2009, the Company employed approximately 77,000 people of over 140 nationalities operating in approximately 80 countries. Schlumberger has principal executive offices in Paris, Houston and The Hague, and consists of two business
segments – Schlumberger Oilfield Services and WesternGeco. Schlumberger Oilfield Services provides the industry’s widest range of products and services from exploration to production, while WesternGeco is the world’s most
technologically advanced surface seismic acquisition and processing company.



Schlumberger Oilfield Servicesoperates in each of the major oilfield service markets, managing its business through its GeoMarket* regions, which are grouped into four geographic areas: North
America, Latin America, Europe/CIS/Africa and Middle East & Asia. The GeoMarket structure offers customers a single point of contact at the local level for field operations and brings together geographically focused teams to meet local
needs and deliver customized solutions. Within this business structure, Schlumberger Oilfield Services products and services are developed by a number of technology-based product lines, or Technologies, to capitalize on technical synergies. These
products and services cover the entire life cycle of the reservoir and correspond to a number of markets in which Schlumberger Oilfield Services holds leading positions. The Technologies are also responsible for overseeing operational processes,
resource allocation, personnel, and quality, health, safety and environmental matters in the GeoMarkets.



The Technologies are:



·Wireline – provides the information necessary to evaluate the subsurface formation rocks and fluids to plan and monitor well construction, and to
monitor and evaluate well production. Wireline offers both open-hole and cased-hole services.



·Drilling & Measurements – supplies directional-drilling, measurement-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling services for all well
profiles.



·Testing Services – provides exploration and production pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface and downhole. The
Technology also provides tubing-conveyed perforating services.



·Well Services – provides services used during oil and gas well drilling and completion as well as those used to maintain optimal production
throughout the life of a well. The services include pressure pumping, well cementing and stimulation operations as well as intervention activities. The Technology also develops coiled-tubing equipment and services.



·Completions – supplies well completion services and equipment that include gas-lift and safety valves as well as a range of intelligent well
completions technology and equipment.



·Artificial Lift – provides production optimization services using electrical submersible pumps and associated equipment.







Part 1, Item 1





·Data & Consulting Services – supplies interpretation and integration of all exploration and production data types, as well as expert
consulting services for reservoir characterization, production enhancement, field development planning and multi-disciplinary reservoir and production solutions.



·Schlumberger Information Solutions (SIS) – provides consulting, software, information management and IT infrastructure services that support core
oil and gas industry operational processes.



Supporting the Technologies are 22 research and engineering centers. Through this organization, Schlumberger is committed to advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency, lower finding
and producing costs, improve productivity, maximize reserve recovery and increase asset value while accomplishing these goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner.

Schlumberger Oilfield Services also offers customers its services through a business model known as Integrated Project Management (IPM). IPM combines the required services and products of the Technologies
with drilling rig management expertise and project management skills to provide a complete solution to well construction and production improvement. IPM projects are typically of multi-year duration and include start-up costs and significant
third-party components that cover services that Schlumberger does not provide directly. Some projects may be fixed price in nature and may contain penalties for non-performance.

Schlumberger Oilfield Services uses its own personnel to market its services and products. The customer base, business risks and
opportunities for growth are essentially uniform across all services. There is a sharing of manufacturing and engineering facilities as well as research centers, and the labor force is interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of service,
and price differentiation are the principal methods of competition, which varies geographically with respect to the different services offered. While there are numerous competitors, both large and small, Schlumberger believes that it is an industry
leader in providing wireline logging, well testing, measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling and directional-drilling services, as well as fully computerized logging and geoscience software and computing services. A large proportion of
Schlumberger offerings are non-rig related; consequently, revenue does not necessarily correlate to rig count fluctuations.

Schlumberger is a 40% owner in M-I SWACO – a joint venture with Smith International, Inc. – which offers the drilling and completion fluids used to stabilize subsurface rock strata during the drilling process and minimize
formation damage during completion and workover operations.



WesternGeco, the world’s most technologically advanced surface seismic company, provides comprehensive reservoir imaging, monitoring and development services with the most extensive seismic crews and data processing centers in
the industry as well as a leading multiclient seismic library. Services range from 3D and time-lapse (4D) seismic surveys to multi-component surveys for delineating prospects and reservoir management. WesternGeco benefits from full access to
the Schlumberger research, development and technology organization and shares similar business risks, opportunities for growth, principal methods of competition and means of marketing as Schlumberger Oilfield Services. Seismic solutions include
proprietary Q* technology for enhanced reservoir description, characterization and monitoring throughout the life of the field – from exploration through enhanced recovery. Other WesternGeco solutions include development of controlled-source
electromagnetic and magneto-telluric surveys and their integration with seismic data.

Positioned for meeting a full range of
customer needs in land, marine and shallow-water transition-zone services, WesternGeco offers a wide scope of technologies and services:



·Land Seismic – provides comprehensive resources for seismic data acquisition on land and across shallow-water transition zones.



·Marine Seismic – provides industry-standard marine seismic acquisition and processing systems as well as a unique industry-leading, fully
calibrated single-sensor marine seismic system that delivers the seismic technology needed for new-generation reservoir management.







Part 1, Item 1





·Multiclient Services – supplies high-quality seismic data from the multiclient library, including industry-leading Q technology data.



·Reservoir Services – provides people, tools and technology to help customers capture the benefits of a completely integrated approach to locating,
defining and monitoring the reservoir.



·Data Processing – offers extensive seismic data processing centers for complex data processing projects.



·Electromagnetics – provides controlled-source electromagnetic and magneto-telluric data acquisition and processing.



Acquisitions



Information about acquisitions made by
Schlumberger appears in Note 4 of theConsolidated Financial Statements.



GENERAL



Research Centers



Research to support the engineering and development efforts of Schlumberger
activities is principally conducted at Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States; Cambridge, England; Stavanger, Norway; Moscow, Russia; and Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.



Patents



While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering various products and processes, no particular patent or group of patents is considered material
to Schlumberger’s business.



Seasonality



Although weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect delivery of
oilfield services, the widespread geographic location of such services precludes the overall business from being characterized as seasonal.



Customers and Backlog of Orders



No single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Oilfield Services has no significant backlog due to the nature of its business. The WesternGeco
backlog, which is based on signed contracts with customers, was $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009 ($1.8 billion at December 31, 2008).



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, Schlumberger had approximately 77,000 employees.



Financial Information



Financial information by business segment for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007 is provided in Note 18 of theConsolidated Financial Statements.



Available Information



The Schlumberger Internet website iswww.slb.com. Schlumberger uses it’s Investor Relations website,www.slb.com/ir, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst
presentations, and financial information. Schlumberger makes available free of charge on or through its Investor Relations website atwww.slb.com/iraccess to its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports







Part 1, Item 1, 1A





on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, its proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports, as soon as
reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC’s Internet website atwww.sec.gov.

Schlumberger’s corporate governance materials, including Board Committee Charters, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics,
may also be found atwww.slb.com/ir. From time to time, corporate governance materials on our website may be updated to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) or as desirable to promote the
effective governance of Schlumberger.

Any stockholder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of
Schlumberger’s SEC filings should write to the Secretary, Schlumberger Limited, 5599 San Felipe, 17thFloor, Houston, Texas 77056, USA.

Schlumberger has filed the required certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Form 10-K.

The information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Report and should not be considered part of this
Report or any other filing Schlumberger makes with the SEC.



