Item 1.Business.

All
references in this report to “Registrant,” “Company,” “Schlumberger,” “we” or “our” are to Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., incorporated in Curaçao) and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world’s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and
information solutions to the international oil and gas exploration and production industry. Having invented wireline logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and gas wells, Schlumberger today provides the industry’s widest
range of products and services from exploration through production. As of December 31, 2011, the Company employed approximately 113,000 people of over 140 nationalities operating in approximately 85 countries. Schlumberger has principal
executive offices in Paris, Houston and The Hague. As a result of its acquisitions of Smith International, Inc. (“Smith”) and Geoservices in 2010, the range of Schlumberger’s activities comprising exploration and production services
became so broad that Schlumberger changed the primary way in which it allocates resources and assesses performance. Consequently, effective with the first quarter of 2011, Schlumberger changed its primary reporting to the product group segments (the
“Groups”) comprising Schlumberger Oilfield Services. Additionally, Schlumberger also reports the Distribution business, acquired in the Smith transaction, as a separate segment.

Schlumberger Oilfield Servicesoperates in each of the major oilfield service markets, managing its business through three Groups: Reservoir Characterization, Drilling and Reservoir Production.
Each Group consists of a number of technology-based service and product lines, or Technologies. These Technologies cover the entire life cycle of the reservoir and correspond to a number of markets in which Schlumberger holds leading positions. The
business is also managed through four geographic Areas: North America, Latin America, Europe/CIS/Africa and Middle East & Asia. Within these Areas, a network of GeoMarket* regions provides logistical, technical and commercial coordination.

The role of the Groups and Technologies is to ensure that Schlumberger provides the best possible service delivery to
customers and that it remains at the forefront of technology development. The Groups and Technologies are collectively responsible for driving excellence in execution throughout their businesses, overseeing operational processes, resource
allocation, personnel and delivering superior financial results. The GeoMarket structure offers customers a single point of contact at the local level for field operations and brings together geographically focused teams to meet local needs and
deliver customized solutions. The Areas and GeoMarkets are responsible for providing the most efficient and cost effective support possible to the operations.

The Groups are as follows:

Reservoir Characterization Group– Consists of the
principal Technologies involved in finding and defining hydrocarbon deposits. These include WesternGeco, Wireline, Testing Services, Schlumberger Information Solutions and Data & Consulting Services.



—WesternGecois the world’s leading geophysical services company, providing comprehensive worldwide reservoir imaging, monitoring and
development services. WesternGeco offers the industry’s most extensive multiclient data library.



—Wirelineprovides the information necessary to evaluate subsurface formation rocks and fluids to plan and monitor well construction, and to
monitor and evaluate well production. Wireline offers both open hole and cased hole services including wireline perforating.



—TestingServices provides exploration and production pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface and downhole. The
Technology also provides tubing-conveyed perforating services.



—Schlumberger Information Solutionsprovides software, consulting, information management and IT infrastructure services that support core oil
and gas industry operational processes.



—Data & Consulting Servicessupplies interpretation and integration of all exploration and production data types, as well as expert
consulting services for reservoir characterization, production enhancement, field development planning and multi-disciplinary reservoir and production solutions. Data and Consulting Services also provides industry petrotechnical training solutions.

Drilling Group– Consists of the principal Technologies involved in the drilling and positioning of oil
and gas wells and comprises Bits & Advanced Technologies, M-I SWACO, Geoservices, Drilling & Measurements, PathFinder, Drilling







Tools & Remedial, Dynamic Pressure Management and Integrated Project Management well construction projects.



—Bits & Advanced Technologies designs,manufactures and markets roller cone and fixed cutter drill bits for all environments. The drill
bits include designs for premium market segments where faster penetration rates and increased footage provide significant economic benefits in lowering overall well costs. The technologies leverage proprietary modeling and simulation software for
the design of application-specific bits and cutting structures.



—M-I SWACOis the leading supplier of drilling fluid systems engineered to improve drilling performance by anticipating fluids-related problems,
fluid systems and specialty equipment designed to optimize wellbore productivity and production technology solutions formulated to maximize production rates. The Technology also includes environmental solutions that safely manage waste volumes
generated in both drilling and production operations.



—Geoservicessupplies mud logging services for geological and drilling surveillance.



—Drilling & MeasurementsandPathFindersupply engineering support, directional-drilling, measurement-while-drilling and
logging-while-drilling services for all well profiles.



—Drilling Tools & Remedialprovides a wide variety of bottom hole assembly drilling tools, borehole enlargement technologies and impact
tools, as well as a comprehensive collection of tubulars and tubular services for oil and gas drilling operations.



—Dynamic Pressure Managementconsolidates managed pressure drilling and underbalanced drilling into a single provider of engineered solutions for
pressure drilling services.

Reservoir Production Group– Consists of the principal Technologies involved
in the lifetime production of oil and gas reservoirs and includes Well Services, Completions, Artificial Lift and Well Intervention, Subsea, Water Services, Carbon Services and Schlumberger Production Management field production projects.



—Well Servicesprovides services used during oil and gas well drilling and completion as well as those used to maintain optimal production
throughout the life of a well. The services include pressure pumping, well cementing and stimulation operations as well as intervention activities.



—Completionssupplies well completion services and equipment that include packers, safety valves, sand control technology as well as a range of
intelligent well completions technology and equipment.



—Artificial Liftprovides production equipment and optimization services using electrical submersible pumps and gas lift equipment, as well as
surface horizontal pumping systems.



—Well Interventiondevelops coiled tubing equipment and services and provides slickline services for downhole mechanical well intervention,
reservoir monitoring and downhole data acquisition.



—Subseaoffers solutions that are designed to improve reservoir recovery, optimize production and maximize production uptime of subsea assets.



—Water Servicesspecializes in the development, management and environmental protection of water resources.



—Carbon Servicesprovides comprehensive geological storage solutions including storage site characterization for carbon dioxide.

Schlumberger Oilfield Services also offers customers its services through business models known as
Integrated Project Management (for well construction projects) and Schlumberger Production Management (for field production projects). These models combine the required services and products of the Technologies with both drilling rig management
expertise and project management skills to provide a complete solution to well construction and production improvement. Projects are typically of multi-year duration and include start-up costs and significant third-party components which cover
services that Schlumberger does not provide directly. Projects may be fixed price in nature, contain penalties for non-performance and may also offer opportunities for bonus payments where performance exceeds agreed targets. Integrated Project
Management and Schlumberger Production Management also







provide specialized engineering and project management expertise when Schlumberger is requested to include these capabilities with services and products across the Technologies in a single
contract. In no circumstances does Schlumberger take any stake in the ownership of oil or gas reserves.

Also included in
Schlumberger Oilfield Services is Schlumberger Business Consulting, which helps oil and gas companies achieve fast and sustainable performance improvements. Schlumberger Business Consulting includes IndigoPool, an independent business that provides
divestiture advisory and marketing services to the international oil and gas community.

Supporting the Technologies is a
global network of research and engineering centers. Through this organization, Schlumberger is committed to advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency, lower finding and producing costs, improve productivity, maximize reserve
recovery and increase asset value while accomplishing these goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner.

Schlumberger
Oilfield Services primarily uses its own personnel to market its offerings. The customer base, business risks and opportunities for growth are essentially uniform across all services. There is a sharing of manufacturing and engineering facilities as
well as research centers, and the labor force is interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of service and price differentiation are the principal methods of competition, which varies geographically with respect to the different services
offered. While there are numerous competitors, both large and small, Schlumberger believes that it is an industry leader in providing wireline logging, well testing, drilling and completion fluids, coiled tubing, measurement-while-drilling,
logging-while-drilling and directional-drilling services, mud logging, as well as fully computerized logging and geoscience software and computing services. A large proportion of Schlumberger offerings is non-rig related; consequently, revenue does
not necessarily correlate to rig count fluctuations.

Distributionis an industry leading provider of pipes, valves and valve
automation, fittings, mill and tool supplies, safety products and artificial lift systems to the energy and industrial markets. Additionally, Distribution provides warehouse management, vendor integration and various inventory management services.
The segment comprises the operations of Wilson International, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary, and a majority owned interest in C.E. Franklin Ltd., a publicly traded Canadian distribution company.

Acquisitions

Information about acquisitions made by Schlumberger appears in Note 4 of theConsolidated Financial Statements.

GENERAL

Patents

While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering various products and processes, no particular patent or group of patents is
considered material to Schlumberger’s business.

Seasonality

Although weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect delivery of oilfield services, the widespread geographic location of such
services precludes the overall business from being characterized as seasonal.

Customers and Backlog of Orders

For the year ended December 31, 2011, no single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Other than
WesternGeco, we have no significant backlog due to the nature of our businesses. The WesternGeco backlog, which is based on signed contracts with customers, was $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011 ($0.9 billion at December 31, 2010).

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, Schlumberger had approximately 113,000 employees.

Financial Information

Financial information by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is provided in Note 17 of theConsolidated Financial Statements.







Executive Officers of Schlumberger

The following table sets forth, as of January 31, 2012, the names and ages of the executive officers of Schlumberger, including all
offices and positions held by each for at least the past five years.





NameAgeCurrent Position and Five-Year Business Experience



Andrew Gould65Chairman since February 2003; Executive Officer since August 2011; and Chief Executive Officer, February 2003 to July 2011.



Paal Kibsgaard44Chief Executive Officer, since August 2011; Director since April 2011; Chief Operating Officer, February 2010 to July 2011; President Reservoir Characterization Group, May 2009
to February 2010; Vice President Engineering, Manufacturing and Sustaining, November 2007 to May 2009; Vice President Personnel, April 2006 to November 2007; and President, Drilling and Measurements, January 2003 to April 2006.



Simon Ayat57Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, since March 2007; Vice President Treasurer, February 2005 to March 2007; and Vice President, Controller and Business
Processes, December 2002 to February 2005.



Alexander Juden51Secretary and General Counsel, since April 2009; and Director of Compliance, February 2005 to April 2009.



Satish Pai50Executive Vice President Operations, since May 2008; President Europe Africa & Caspian, March 2006 to May 2008; and Vice President Oilfield Technologies, March 2002 to March
2006.



Kjell-Erik Oestdahl47Executive Vice President Operations, since January 2011; Vice President Supply Chain Services, May 2009 to January 2011; Vice President Operations WesternGeco, January 2008 to
April 2009; Chief Procurement Officer at StatoilHydro ASA, March 2006 to November 2007; and North Sea GeoMarket Manager, January 2005 to February 2006.



Ashok Belani53Executive Vice President Technology, since January 2011; President, Reservoir Characterization Group, February 2010 to August 2011; Vice President and Chief Technology Officer,
April 2006 to February 2010; and Senior Advisor, Technology, January 2006 to April 2006.



Douglas Pferdehirt47Executive Vice President Corporate Development and Communication, since January 2011; and President Reservoir Production Group, April 2006 to January 2011.



Stephanie Cox43Vice President Personnel, since May 2009; North Gulf Coast GeoMarket Manager, April 2006 to May 2009; and North & South America Personnel Manager, May 2004 to April
2006.



Mark Danton55Vice President - Director of Taxes, since January 1999.



Aaron Gatt Floridia43President Reservoir Characterization Group, since August 2011; President Middle East, May 2009 to July 2011; and General Manager – AGO, January 2007 to April
2009.



Howard Guild40Chief Accounting Officer, since July 2005.



Rodney Nelson53Vice President Government & Community Relations, since August 2011; Vice President Communications, Innovation and Collaboration, October 2007 to July 2011; Vice President
Innovation and Collaboration, July 2006 to October 2007; and Vice President Strategic Marketing, July 2004 to July 2006.



Jean-Francois Poupeau50President Drilling Group, since May 2010; President Drilling & Measurements, July 2007 to April 2010; and Vice President Communications and Investor Relations, April 2006 to
June 2007.



Patrick Schorn43President Reservoir Production Group, since January 2011; President Well Services, May 2008 to January 2011; and President Completions, April 2006 to April 2008.



Krishna Shivram49Vice President Treasurer, since January 2011; Controller Drilling Group, May 2010 to January 2011; Manager Mergers & Acquisitions, May 2009 to April 2010; Controller Oilfield
Services, August 2006 to April 2009; and Vice President Finance WesternGeco, March 2004 to July 2006.



Malcolm Theobald50Vice President Investor Relations, since June 2007; and Global Account Director, September 2001 to June 2007.







Available Information

The Schlumberger Internet website iswww.slb.com. Schlumberger uses its Investor Relations website,www.slb.com/ir, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including
news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. Schlumberger makes available free of charge on or through its Investor Relations website atwww.slb.com/iraccess to its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, its proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC’s Internet website atwww.sec.gov.

Schlumberger’s corporate governance materials, including Board Committee Charters, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics, may also be found atwww.slb.com/ir. From time to time,
corporate governance materials on our website may be updated to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) or as desirable to promote the effective governance of Schlumberger.

Any stockholder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of Schlumberger’s SEC filings should write to
the Secretary, Schlumberger Limited, 5599 San Felipe, 17thFloor, Houston, Texas 77056, USA.

Schlumberger has filed the required certifications under Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Form 10-K.

The information on our website or any other website is
not incorporated by reference in this Report and should not be considered part of this Report or any other filing Schlumberger makes with the SEC.



