Item 1.Business.



All references in this report to “Registrant,”
    “Company,” “Schlumberger,” “we” or
    “our” are to Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V.,
    incorporated in Curaçao) and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world’s leading
    supplier of technology, integrated project management and
    information solutions to the international oil and gas
    exploration and production industry. Having invented wireline
    logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and
    gas wells, the Company today provides the industry’s widest
    range of products and services from exploration through
    production. As of December 31, 2010, the Company employed
    approximately 108,000 people of over 140 nationalities
    operating in approximately 80 countries. Schlumberger has
    principal executive offices in Paris, Houston and The Hague.

On August 27, 2010, Schlumberger acquired all of the
    outstanding shares of Smith International, Inc.
    (“Smith”), a leading supplier of premium products and
    services to the oil and gas exploration and production industry.
    In connection with this transaction, Schlumberger issued
    176 million shares of its common stock, valued at
    approximately $9.8 billion as of the acquisition date. As a
    result of this transaction, Schlumberger consists of five
    business segments as of December 31, 2010 –
    Schlumberger Oilfield Services, WesternGeco, M-I SWACO, Smith
    Oilfield and Distribution.



Schlumberger Oilfield Servicesoperates in each of the
    major oilfield service markets, managing its business through
    its GeoMarket* regions, which are grouped into four geographic
    areas: North America, Latin America, Europe/CIS/Africa and
    Middle East & Asia. The GeoMarket structure offers
    customers a single point of contact at the local level for field
    operations and brings together geographically focused teams to
    meet local needs and deliver customized solutions. Within this
    business structure, Schlumberger Oilfield Services products and
    services are developed by a number of technology-based product
    lines, or Technologies, to capitalize on technical synergies.
    These products and services cover the entire life cycle of the
    reservoir and correspond to a number of markets in which
    Schlumberger Oilfield Services holds leading positions. The
    Technologies are also responsible for overseeing operational
    processes, resource allocation, personnel and quality in the
    GeoMarkets.



The Technologies are:





•Wireline – provides the information necessary to
    evaluate the subsurface formation rocks and fluids to plan and
    monitor well construction, and to monitor and evaluate well
    production. Wireline offers both open-hole and cased-hole
    services as well as a range of well remediation services.



•Drilling & Measurements – supplies
    engineering support, directional-drilling,
    measurement-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling services
    for all well profiles.



•Testing Services – provides exploration and production
    pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface
    and downhole. The Technology also provides tubing-conveyed
    perforating services.



•Well Services – provides services used during oil and
    gas well drilling and completion as well as those used to
    maintain optimal production throughout the life of a well. The
    services include pressure pumping, well cementing and
    stimulation operations as well as intervention activities. The
    Technology also develops coiled-tubing equipment and services.



•Completions – supplies well completion services and
    equipment that includes upper and lower completion systems, sand
    management systems and permanently installed instrumentation for
    all types of well completion.



•Artificial Lift – provides electrical submersible
    pumps and gas lift equipment together with associated
    instrumentation, engineering and production optimization
    services.



•Data & Consulting Services – supplies
    interpretation and integration of all exploration and production
    data types, as well as expert consulting services for reservoir
    characterization, production enhancement, field development
    planning and multi-disciplinary reservoir and production
    solutions.





Part I, Item 1





•Schlumberger Information Solutions (SIS) – provides
    consulting, software, information management and IT
    infrastructure services that support core oil and gas industry
    operational processes.•Geoservices – supplies mud logging services for
    geological and drilling surveillance. Geological surveillance
    includes formation evaluation to provide information on
    lithology and hydrocarbons encountered while drilling. Drilling
    surveillance enhances safety and optimizes drilling efficiency
    using a range of drilling parameter measurements. Geoservices
    also supplies slickline services for downhole mechanical well
    intervention and reservoir monitoring and downhole data
    acquisition.



Supporting the Technologies are various research and engineering
    centers. Through this organization, Schlumberger is committed to
    advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency,
    lower finding and producing costs, improve productivity,
    maximize reserve recovery and increase asset value while
    accomplishing these goals in a safe and environmentally sound
    manner.

Schlumberger Oilfield Services also offers customers its
    services through a business model known as Integrated Project
    Management (IPM). IPM combines the required services and
    products of the Technologies with drilling rig management
    expertise and project management skills to provide a complete
    solution to well construction and production improvement. IPM
    projects are typically of multi-year duration and includestart-upcosts and significant third-party components which cover
    services that Schlumberger does not provide directly. Projects
    may be fixed price in nature, contain penalties for
    non-performance and may also offer opportunities for bonus
    payments where performance exceeds agreed targets. IPM also
    provides specialized engineering and project management
    expertise when Schlumberger is requested to include these
    capabilities with services and products across the Technologies
    in a single contract. In no circumstances do IPM projects fail
    to respect the Schlumberger business profile that precludes any
    stake in the ownership of oil or gas reserves.

Schlumberger Oilfield Services uses its own personnel to market
    its offerings. The customer base, business risks and
    opportunities for growth are essentially uniform across all
    services. There is a sharing of manufacturing and engineering
    facilities as well as research centers, and the labor force is
    interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of service,
    and price differentiation are the principal methods of
    competition, which varies geographically with respect to the
    different services offered. While there are numerous
    competitors, both large and small, Schlumberger believes that it
    is an industry leader in providing wireline logging, well
    testing, measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling and
    directional-drilling services, as well as fully computerized
    logging and geoscience software and computing services. A large
    proportion of Schlumberger offerings is non-rig related;
    consequently, revenue does not necessarily correlate to rig
    count fluctuations.



WesternGeco, the world’s most technologically
    advanced surface seismic company, provides comprehensive
    reservoir imaging, monitoring and development services with the
    most extensive seismic crews and data processing centers in the
    industry as well as a leading multiclient seismic library.
    Services range from 3D and time-lapse (4D) seismic surveys to
    multi-component surveys for delineating prospects and reservoir
    management. WesternGeco benefits from full access to the
    Schlumberger research, development and technology organization
    and shares similar business risks, opportunities for growth,
    principal methods of competition and means of marketing as
    Schlumberger Oilfield Services. Seismic solutions include
    proprietary single-sensor technologies for enhanced reservoir
    description, characterization and monitoring throughout the life
    of the field – from exploration through enhanced
    recovery. Other WesternGeco solutions include development of
    controlled-source electromagnetic and magneto-telluric surveys
    and their integration with seismic data.

Positioned for meeting a full range of customer needs in land,
    marine and shallow-water transition-zone services, WesternGeco
    offers a wide scope of technologies and services:



•Land Seismic – provides comprehensive resources for
    seismic data acquisition on land and across shallow-water
    transition zones.•Marine Seismic – provides industry-standard marine
    seismic acquisition and processing systems as well as a unique
    industry-leading, fully calibrated single-sensor marine seismic
    system that delivers the seismic technology needed for
    new-generation reservoir management.





Part I, Item 1





•Multiclient Services – supplies high-quality seismic
    data from the multiclient library, including industry-leading Q
    technology data.•Reservoir Services – provides people, tools and
    technology to help customers capture the benefits of a
    completely integrated approach to locating, defining and
    monitoring the reservoir.•Data Processing – offers extensive seismic data
    processing centers for complex data processing projects.•Electromagnetics – provides controlled-source
    electromagnetic and magneto-telluric data processing and
    interpretation.



M-I SWACOis the leading supplier of drilling fluid
    systems engineered to improve drilling performance by
    anticipating fluids-related problems, fluid systems and
    specialty tools designed to optimize wellbore productivity,
    production technology solution to maximize production rates, and
    environmental solutions that safely manage waste volumes
    generated in both drilling and production operations. The M-I
    SWACO solutions offering blends an understanding of technology,
    application and service to enable its clients to achieve their
    project-specific goals. Operationally, these solutions are
    delivered through its GeoMarket regions, which are grouped into
    geographic areas, similar to Schlumberger Oilfield Services.

M-I SWACO’s business is organized into four core solutions
    offerings: Drilling Solutions, Wellbore Productivity, Production
    Technologies and Environmental Solutions. These core offerings
    are organized around the operator’s exploration and
    production activities – drilling, completion and
    production. Environmental Solutions are designed to include all
    three of these activities, allowing M-I SWACO to leverage its
    environmental technologies across all three of the
    operator’s exploration and production activities.



•Drilling Solutions – provides a complete offering of
    oil-, water- and synthetic-based drilling fluids and additives
    as well as engineering services that include proprietary
    software systems, knowledge databases and laboratory
    capabilities.•Wellbore Productivity – consists of a suite of
    services, products and technical support that focus on
    safeguarding well completions and formation stability by
    assuring the optimal quality of the wellbore and fluid systems.•Production Technologies – provides a line of oilfield
    specialty chemical, equipment and related technical services
    that are used to enhance the flow of hydrocarbons from the
    wellbore.•Environmental Solutions – focuses on the best approach
    to safely managing waste volumes produced during the drilling,
    completion and production operations in a way that allows
    clients to achieve their environmental performance standards.



Prior to its acquisition of Smith, Schlumberger held a 40%
    interest in M-I SWACO through a joint venture with Smith.



Smith Oilfieldprovides a comprehensive suite of
    technologically advanced products, services and engineering used
    in oil and natural gas development activities. Smith Oilfield is
    a global leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of
    drill bits and borehole enlargement tools and is also a leading
    supplier of drilling tools and services, tubular, completion
    services and other related downhole solutions. Smith Oilfield
    also leverages its proprietary suite of modeling and design
    software and application data together with its comprehensive
    product and service offerings to optimize the creation of the
    wellbore.



Distributionoperations provide products and services to
    the energy refining, petrochemical, power generation and mining
    industries. The segment consists of the operations of Wilson
    International, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary, and a majority
    owned interest in C.E. Franklin Ltd., a publicly owned Canadian
    distribution company. Distribution operates an extensive network
    of supply branches, service centers and sales offices through
    which it markets pipes, valves and fittings as well as mill,
    safety and other maintenance products, predominantly in the
    United States and Canada. Additionally, the Distribution segment
    provides warehouse management, vendor integration and various
    inventory management services.





Part I, Item 1



Acquisitions



Information about acquisitions made by Schlumberger appears in
    Note 4 of theConsolidated Financial Statements.



GENERAL



Patents



While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering
    various products and processes, no particular patent or group of
    patents is considered material to Schlumberger’s business.



Seasonality



Although weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect
    delivery of oilfield services, the widespread geographic
    location of such services precludes the overall business from
    being characterized as seasonal.



Customers and
    Backlog of Orders



For the year ended December 31, 2010, no single customer
    exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Other than WesternGeco, we
    have no significant backlog due to the nature of our businesses.
    The WesternGeco backlog, which is based on signed contracts with
    customers, was $0.9 billion at December 31, 2010
    ($1.0 billion at December 31, 2009).



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, Schlumberger had approximately
    108,000 employees.



Financial
    Information



Financial information by business segment for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is provided in
    Note 17 of theConsolidated Financial Statements.



Available
    Information



The Schlumberger Internet website iswww.slb.com.Schlumberger uses its Investor Relations website,
    www.slb.com/ir, as a channel for routine distribution of
    important information, including news releases, analyst
    presentations, and financial information. Schlumberger makes
    available free of charge on or through its Investor Relations
    website atwww.slb.com/iraccess to its Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-K,its proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf
    of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of
    those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such
    material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Alternatively, you may
    access these reports at the SEC’s Internet website atwww.sec.gov.

Schlumberger’s corporate governance materials, including
    Board Committee Charters, Corporate Governance Guidelines and
    Code of Ethics, may also be found atwww.slb.com/ir.From
    time to time, corporate governance materials on our website may
    be updated to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the New
    York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) or as desirable to
    promote the effective governance of Schlumberger.

Any stockholder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of
    any of Schlumberger’s SEC filings should write to the
    Secretary, Schlumberger Limited, 5599 San Felipe, 17th
    Floor, Houston, Texas 77056, USA.

Schlumberger has filed the required certifications under
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as
    Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to thisForm 10-K.

The information on our website or any other website is not
    incorporated by reference in this Report and should not be
    considered part of this Report or any other filing Schlumberger
    makes with the SEC.





Part I, Item 1A

