Item 1.  Business.

All references in this report to “Registrant,” “Company,” “Schlumberger,” “we” or “our” are to Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., incorporated in Curaçao) and its consolidated subsidiaries.



Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world’s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and information solutions to the international oil and gas exploration and production industry. Having invented wireline logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and gas wells, Schlumberger today provides the industry’s widest range of products and services from exploration through production. As of December 31, 2014, the Company employed approximately 120,000 people of over 140 nationalities operating in approximately 85 countries. Schlumberger has principal executive offices in Paris, Houston, London and The Hague.



Schlumberger operates in each of the major oilfield service markets, managing its business through three Groups: Reservoir Characterization, Drilling and Production.  Each Group consists of a number of technology-based service and product lines, or Technologies.  These Technologies cover the entire life cycle of the reservoir and correspond to a number of markets in which Schlumberger holds leading positions.  The business is also reported through four geographic Areas: North America, Latin America, Europe/CIS/Africa and Middle East & Asia. Within these Areas, a network of GeoMarket* regions provides logistical, technical and commercial coordination.



The role of the Groups and Technologies is to ensure that Schlumberger provides the best possible service to customers and that it remains at the forefront of technology development.  The Groups and Technologies are collectively responsible for driving excellence in execution throughout their businesses, overseeing operational processes, resource allocation, personnel and delivering superior financial results. The GeoMarket structure offers customers a single point of contact at the local level for field operations and brings together geographically focused teams to meet local needs and deliver customized solutions. The Areas and GeoMarkets are responsible for providing the most efficient and cost effective support possible to the operations.



The Groups are as follows:



Reservoir Characterization Group– Consists of the principal Technologies involved in finding and defining hydrocarbon resources.  These include WesternGeco, Wireline, Testing Services, Schlumberger Information Solutions (SIS) and PetroTechnical Services.  WesternGeco seismic acquisition services and PetroTechnical Services interpretation solutions combine to provide the industry’s most extensive multiclient library.



·WesternGecois a leading geophysical services supplier, providing comprehensive worldwide reservoir imaging, monitoring and development services.  WesternGeco provides increasingly accurate measurements and images of subsurface geology and rock properties for both customer proprietary and multiclient surveys.

·Wirelineprovides the information necessary to evaluate subsurface formation rocks and fluids to plan and monitor well construction, and to monitor and evaluate well production.  Wireline offers both openhole and cased-hole services including wireline perforating.

·Testing Servicesprovides exploration and production pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface and downhole.  The Technology also provides tubing-conveyed perforating services.

·Schlumberger Information Solutionssells proprietary software and provides consulting, information management and IT infrastructure services that support core oil and gas industry operational processes.

·PetroTechnical Servicessupplies interpretation and integration of all exploration and production data types, as well as expert consulting services for reservoir characterization, field development planning production enhancement and multi-disciplinary reservoir and production solutions.  PetroTechnical Services offers the industry’s most extensive multiclient data library and provides industry petrotechnical training solutions.



Drilling Group– Consists of the principal Technologies involved in the drilling and positioning of oil and gas wells and comprises Bits & Advanced Technologies, M-I SWACO, Geoservices, Drilling & Measurements, Drilling Tools & Remedial, Saxon Rig Services and Integrated Project Management well construction projects.



·Bits & Advanced Technologiesdesigns, manufactures and markets roller cone and fixed cutter drill bits for all environments. The drill bits include designs for premium market segments where faster penetration rates and increased footage provide significant economic benefits in lowering overall well costs.  The technologies leverage proprietary modeling and simulation software for the design of application-specific bits and cutting structures.






·M-I SWACOis the leading supplier of drilling fluid systems engineered to improve drilling performance by anticipating fluids-related problems, fluid systems and specialty equipment designed to optimize wellbore productivity and production technology solutions formulated to maximize production rates. M-I SWACO also provides engineered managed pressure drilling and underbalanced drilling solutions, as well as environmental services and products to safely manage waste volumes generated in both drilling and production operations.

·Geoservicessupplies mud logging services for geological and drilling surveillance.

·Drilling & Measurementsprovides directional drilling, measurement-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling services for all well profiles as well as engineering support.

·Drilling Tools & Remedialprovides a wide variety of bottom hole assembly drilling tools, borehole enlargement technologies and impact tools, as well as a comprehensive collection of tubulars and tubular services for oil and gas drilling operations.

·Saxon Rig Servicesprovides land drilling and related support services.





Production Group– Consists of the principal Technologies involved in the lifetime production of oil and gas reservoirs and includes Well Services, Completions, Artificial Lift, Well Intervention, Water Services and Schlumberger Production Management field production projects.



·Well Servicesprovides services used during oil and gas well drilling and completion as well as those used to maintain optimal production throughout the life of a well. The services include pressure pumping, well cementing and stimulation operations as well as intervention activities.

·Completionssupplies well completion services and equipment that include packers, safety valves, sand control technology as well as a range of intelligent well completions technology and equipment.

·Artificial Liftprovides production equipment and optimization services using electrical submersible pumps, gas lift equipment, rod lift systems, progressing cavity pumps and surface horizontal pumping systems.

·Well Interventiondevelops coiled tubing equipment and services and provides slickline services for downhole mechanical well intervention, reservoir monitoring and downhole data acquisition.

·Water Servicesspecializes in the development, management and environmental protection of water resources.



Schlumberger has a 40% equity ownership interest in OneSubseaTM, a joint venture with Cameron International Corporation (“Cameron”).  The joint venture manufactures and develops products, systems and services for the subsea oil and gas market.  Schlumberger’s 40% share of the net income of the joint venture is reflected in the results of the Production Group.

Schlumberger also offers customers its services through business models known as Integrated Project Management (IPM), for well construction projects, and Schlumberger Production Management (SPM), for field production projects. These models combine the required services and products of the Technologies with drilling rig management, specialized engineering and project management expertise to provide a complete solution to well construction and production improvement.



IPM projects are typically of multiyear duration and include start-up costs and significant third-party components that cover services Schlumberger does not provide directly.  Projects may be fixed price in nature and may contain penalties for non-performance.



SPM commercial arrangements create alignment between Schlumberger and the asset holder and/or the operator whereby Schlumberger receives remuneration in line with its value creation.  These projects are generally focused on developing and co-managing production of Schlumberger’s customers’ assets under long-term agreements.  Schlumberger will invest its own services and products, and in some cases cash, into the field development activities and operations.  Although in certain arrangements Schlumberger is paid for a portion of the services or products it provides, generally Schlumberger will not be paid at the time of providing its services or upon delivery of its products.  Instead, Schlumberger is generally compensated based upon cash flow generated or on a fee-per-barrel basis for any incremental production Schlumberger helps deliver above a mutually agreed baseline.



Supporting the Technologies is a global network of research and engineering centers. Through this organization, Schlumberger is committed to advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency, lower finding and producing costs, improve productivity, maximize reserve recovery and increase asset value while accomplishing these goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner.



Managed outside the Group structure is Schlumberger Business Consulting, which helps oil and gas companies achieve fast and sustainable performance improvements.



Schlumberger primarily uses its own personnel to market its offerings. The customer base, business risks and opportunities for growth are essentially uniform across all services. There is a sharing of manufacturing and engineering facilities as well as research centers, and the labor force is interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of service and price differentiation are the principal methods of competition, which varies geographically with respect to the different services offered. While there are numerous competitors, both large and small, Schlumberger believes that it is an industry leader in providing geophysical services, wireline logging, well testing,






drilling and completion fluids, solids and waste management, coiled-tubing, drill bits, measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling, directional drilling services and mud logging. A large proportion of Schlumberger offerings is non-rig related; consequently, revenue does not necessarily correlate to the rig count.

GENERAL

Intellectual Property

Schlumberger owns and controls a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to patents, proprietary information and software tools and applications that, in the aggregate, are material to Schlumberger’s business. While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering various products and processes, no particular patent or group of patents is considered material to Schlumberger’s business.

Seasonality

Seasonal changes in weather and significant weather events can temporarily affect the delivery of oilfield services. For example, the spring thaw in Canada and consequent road restrictions can affect activity levels, while the winter months in the North Sea, Russia and China can produce severe weather conditions which typically result in temporarily reduced levels of activity. In addition, hurricanes and typhoons can disrupt coastal and offshore operations. Furthermore, customer spending patterns for multiclient data, software and other oilfield services and products generally result in higher activity in the fourth quarter of each year as clients seek to utilize their annual budgets.

Customers and Backlog of Orders

For the year ended December 31, 2014, no single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Other than WesternGeco, Schlumberger has no significant backlog due to the nature of its businesses. The WesternGeco backlog, which is based on signed contracts with customers, was $0.7 billion at December 31, 2014 ($0.9 billion at December 31, 2013).

Financial Information

Financial information by business segment and geographic area for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 is provided in Note 17 of theConsolidated Financial Statements.

Executive Officers of Schlumberger

The following table sets forth, as ofJanuary 29, 2015, the names and ages of the executive officers of Schlumberger, including all offices and positions held by each for at least the past five years.










NameAgeCurrent Position and Five-Year Business Experience

Paal Kibsgaard47Chief Executive Officer, since August 2011; Director since April 2011; Chief Operating Officer, February 2010 to July 2011; President Reservoir Characterization Group, May 2009 to February 2010.



Simon Ayat60Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, since March 2007.



Alexander Juden54Secretary and General Counsel, since April 2009.



Ashok Belani56Executive Vice President, Technology, since January 2011; President, Reservoir Characterization Group, February 2010 to August 2011; Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, April 2006 to February 2010.



Jean-Francois Poupeau53Executive Vice President Corporate Development and Communications, since June 2012; President, Drilling Group, May 2010 to June 2012; President, Drilling & Measurements, July 2007 to April 2010.



Khaled Al Mogharbel44President, Drilling Group, since July 2013;President, Middle East, August 2011 to June 2013; Project – Gulfsands Petroleum – Syria, July 2009 to July 2011.



Stephane Biguet46Vice President Controller, Operations & Integration, since November  2013; Vice President, Global Shared Services Organization, August 2011 to October 2013; Mergers and Acquisitions Director, February 2011 to July 2011; Controller, Reservoir Characterization Group, October 2008 to July 2011.



Mark Danton58Vice President – Director of Taxes, since January 1999.



Simon Farrant50Vice President, Investor Relations, since February 2014; Special Projects Manager, October 2013 to January 2014; GeoMarket Manager, North Sea, April 2012 to September 2013; Integration Manager, Smith Merger, April 2010 to April 2012; Portfolio Manager, Mergers & Acquisitions, July 2004 to March 2010.



Sherif Foda45President, Production Group, since July 2013; President, Europe and Africa, June 2011 to June 2013;Saudi Arabia and Bahrain GeoMarket Manager, June 2009 to June 2011.



Aaron Gatt Floridia46President, Reservoir Characterization Group, since August 2011; President Middle East, May 2009 to July 2011.



Howard Guild43Chief Accounting Officer, since July 2005.



Imran Kizilbash48Vice President and Treasurer, since November 2013; Controller, Operations & Integration, July 2013 to October 2013; Controller, Operations, January 2011 to June 2013; Controller, Schlumberger Limited, May 2009 to January 2011.



Gerard Martellozo59Vice President Human Resources, since June 2014; Senior Advisor to the CEO, August 2012 to May 2014; Human Resources Manager, Drilling Group, May 2010 to July 2012; Human Resources Manager, Reservoir Characterization Group, May 2009 to April 2010.



Patrick Schorn46President, Operations and Integration, since July 2013; President, Production Group, January 2011 to June 2013; President Well Services, May 2008 to January 2011.

Available Information

The Schlumberger Internet website iswww.slb.com. Schlumberger uses its Investor Relations website,www.slb.com/ir, as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. Schlumberger makes available free of charge on or through its Investor Relations website atwww.slb.com/iraccess to its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, its Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5






filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC’s Internet website at www.sec.gov. Copies are also available, without charge, from Schlumberger Investor Relations, 5599 San Felipe, 17thFloor, Houston, Texas 77056.  Unless expressly noted, the information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K or any other filing Schlumberger makes with the SEC.

