Item 1.Business.

All
references in this report to “Registrant,” “Company,” “Schlumberger,” “we” or “our” are to Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., incorporated in Curaçao) and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world’s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and
information solutions to the international oil and gas exploration and production industry. Having invented wireline logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and gas wells, Schlumberger today provides the industry’s widest
range of products and services from exploration through production. As of December 31, 2012, the Company employed approximately 118,000 people of over 140 nationalities operating in approximately 85 countries. Schlumberger has principal
executive offices in Paris, Houston and The Hague.

Schlumberger operates in each of the major oilfield service markets,
managing its business through three Groups: Reservoir Characterization, Drilling and Production. Each Group consists of a number of technology-based service and product lines, or Technologies. These Technologies cover the entire life cycle of the
reservoir and correspond to a number of markets in which Schlumberger holds leading positions. The business is also reported through four geographic Areas: North America, Latin America, Europe/CIS/Africa and Middle East & Asia. Within these
Areas, a network of GeoMarket* regions provides logistical, technical and commercial coordination.

The role of the Groups and
Technologies is to ensure that Schlumberger provides the best possible service to customers and that it remains at the forefront of technology development. The Groups and Technologies are collectively responsible for driving excellence in execution
throughout their businesses, overseeing operational processes, resource allocation, personnel and delivering superior financial results. The GeoMarket structure offers customers a single point of contact at the local level for field operations and
brings together geographically focused teams to meet local needs and deliver customized solutions. The Areas and GeoMarkets are responsible for providing the most efficient and cost effective support possible to the operations.

The Groups are as follows:

Reservoir
Characterization Group– Consists of the principal Technologies involved in finding and defining hydrocarbon resources. These include WesternGeco, Wireline, Testing Services, Schlumberger Information Solutions and PetroTechnical
Services.



—WesternGecois the world’s leading geophysical services company, providing comprehensive worldwide reservoir imaging, monitoring and
development services. WesternGeco offers the industry’s most extensive multiclient data library.



—Wirelineprovides the information necessary to evaluate subsurface formation rocks and fluids to plan and monitor well construction, and to
monitor and evaluate well production. Wireline offers both openhole and cased-hole services including wireline perforating.



—Testing Servicesprovides exploration and production pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface and downhole. The
Technology also provides tubing-conveyed perforating services.



—Schlumberger Information Solutionsprovides software, consulting, information management and IT infrastructure services that support core oil
and gas industry operational processes.



—PetroTechnical Servicessupplies interpretation and integration of all exploration and production data types, as well as expert consulting
services for reservoir characterization, field development planning production enhancement and multi-disciplinary reservoir and production solutions. PetroTechnical Services also provides industry petrotechnical training solutions.

Drilling Group– Consists of the principal Technologies involved in the drilling and positioning of oil
and gas wells and comprises Bits & Advanced Technologies, M-I SWACO, Geoservices, Drilling & Measurements, PathFinder, Drilling Tools & Remedial Services, Dynamic Pressure Management and Integrated Project Management well
construction projects.



—Bits & Advanced Technologiesdesigns, manufactures and markets roller cone and fixed cutter drill bits for all environments. The drill
bits include designs for premium market segments where faster penetration rates and






increased footage provide significant economic benefits in lowering overall well costs. The technologies leverage proprietary modeling and simulation software for the design of
application-specific bits and cutting structures.



—M-I SWACOis the leading supplier of drilling fluid systems engineered to improve drilling performance by anticipating fluids-related problems,
fluid systems and specialty equipment designed to optimize wellbore productivity and production technology solutions formulated to maximize production rates. The Technology also includes environmental solutions that safely manage waste volumes
generated in both drilling and production operations.



—Geoservicessupplies mud logging services for geological and drilling surveillance.



—Drilling & MeasurementsandPathFinderprovide directional-drilling, measurement-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling
services for all well profiles as well as engineering support.



—Drilling Tools & Remedialprovides a wide variety of bottom hole assembly drilling tools, borehole enlargement technologies and impact
tools, as well as a comprehensive collection of tubulars and tubular services for oil and gas drilling operations.



—Dynamic Pressure Managementconsolidates managed pressure drilling and underbalanced drilling into a single provider of engineered solutions for
pressure drilling services.

Production Group– Consists of the principal Technologies involved in the
lifetime production of oil and gas reservoirs and includes Well Services, Completions, Artificial Lift, Well Intervention, Subsea, Water Services, Carbon Services and Schlumberger Production Management field production projects.



—Well Servicesprovides services used during oil and gas well drilling and completion as well as those used to maintain optimal production
throughout the life of a well. The services include pressure pumping, well cementing and stimulation operations as well as intervention activities.



—Completionssupplies well completion services and equipment that include packers, safety valves, sand control technology as well as a range of
intelligent well completions technology and equipment.



—Artificial Liftprovides production equipment and optimization services using electrical submersible pumps and gas lift equipment, as well as
surface horizontal pumping systems.



—Well Interventiondevelops coiled tubing equipment and services and provides slickline services for downhole mechanical well intervention,
reservoir monitoring and downhole data acquisition.



—Subseaoffers solutions that are designed to improve reservoir recovery, optimize production and maximize production uptime of subsea assets.



—Water Servicesspecializes in the development, management and environmental protection of water resources.



—Carbon Servicesprovides comprehensive geological storage solutions including storage site characterization for carbon dioxide.

Schlumberger also offers customers its services through business models known as Integrated Project
Management (for well construction projects) and Schlumberger Production Management (for field production projects). These models combine the required services and products of the Technologies with both drilling rig management expertise and project
management skills to provide a complete solution to well construction and production improvement. Projects are typically of multiyear duration and include start-up costs and significant third-party components that cover services that Schlumberger
does not provide directly. Projects may be fixed price in nature, contain penalties for non-performance and may also offer opportunities for bonus payments where performance exceeds agreed targets. Integrated Project Management and Schlumberger
Production Management also provide specialized engineering and project management expertise when Schlumberger is requested to include these capabilities with services and products across the Technologies in a single contract. In no circumstances
does Schlumberger take any stake in the ownership of oil or gas reserves.






Supporting the Technologies is a global network of research and engineering centers. Through
this organization, Schlumberger is committed to advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency, lower finding and producing costs, improve productivity, maximize reserve recovery and increase asset value while accomplishing these
goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner.

Managed outside the Group structure is Schlumberger Business Consulting,
which helps oil and gas companies achieve fast and sustainable performance improvements.

Schlumberger primarily uses its own
personnel to market its offerings. The customer base, business risks and opportunities for growth are essentially uniform across all services. There is a sharing of manufacturing and engineering facilities as well as research centers, and the labor
force is interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of service and price differentiation are the principal methods of competition, which varies geographically with respect to the different services offered. While there are numerous
competitors, both large and small, Schlumberger believes that it is an industry leader in providing wireline logging, well testing, drilling and completion fluids, coiled-tubing, drill bits, measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling and
directional-drilling services, mud logging, as well as fully computerized logging and geoscience software and computing services. A large proportion of Schlumberger offerings is non-rig related; consequently, revenue does not necessarily correlate
to rig count fluctuations.

Acquisitions

Schlumberger completed a number of acquisitions during 2012, none of which were significant. Information about acquisitions made by Schlumberger appears in Note 4 of theConsolidated Financial
Statements.

GENERAL

Intellectual Property

Schlumberger and its affiliates own and control a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to patents, proprietary
information and software tools and applications that, in the aggregate, are material to Schlumberger’s business. While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering various products and processes, no particular patent or group of
patents is considered material to Schlumberger’s business.

Seasonality

Seasonal changes in weather and significant weather events can temporarily affect the delivery of oilfield services. For example, the
spring thaw in Canada and consequent road restrictions can affect activity levels, while the winter months in the North Sea, Russia and China can produce severe weather conditions which typically result in reduced levels of activity. Hurricanes
and typhoons can disrupt coastal and offshore operations. Additionally, customer spending patterns for multiclient data, software and other oilfield services and products generally result in higher activity in the fourth quarter of each year as
clients seek to utilize their annual budgets.

Customers and Backlog of Orders

For the year ended December 31, 2012, no single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Other than WesternGeco, Schlumberger
has no significant backlog due to the nature of its businesses. The WesternGeco backlog, which is based on signed contracts with customers, was $1.0 billion at December 31, 2012 ($1.0 billion at December 31, 2011).

Financial Information

Financial information by business segment and geographic area for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is provided in
Note 17 of theConsolidated Financial Statements.






Executive Officers of Schlumberger

The following table sets forth, as of January 31, 2013, the names and ages of the executive officers of Schlumberger, including all
offices and positions held by each for at least the past five years.





NameAgeCurrent Position and Five-Year Business Experience



Paal Kibsgaard45Chief Executive Officer, since August 2011; Director since April 2011; Chief Operating Officer, February 2010 to July 2011; President Reservoir Characterization Group, May 2009
to February 2010; and Vice President Engineering, Manufacturing and Sustaining, November 2007 to May 2009.



Simon Ayat58Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, since March 2007; and Vice President Treasurer, February 2005 to March 2007.



Alexander Juden52Secretary and General Counsel, since April 2009; Director of Compliance, February 2005 to April 2009.



Satish Pai51Executive Vice President Operations, since April 2009; Vice President Operations, Oilfield Services, May 2008 to April 2009; and President Europe Africa & Caspian, March 2006
to May 2008.



Ashok Belani54Executive Vice President, Technology, since January 2011; President, Reservoir Characterization Group, February 2010 to August 2011; Vice President and Chief Technology Officer,
April 2006 to February 2010; and Senior Advisor, Technology, January 2006 to April 2006.



Kjell-Erik Oestdahl48Executive Vice President Shared Services, Infrastructure and Distribution, since March 2012; Executive Vice President Operations, January 2011 to March 2012; Vice President Supply
Chain Services, May 2009 to December 2010; Vice President Operations WesternGeco, January 2008 to April 2009; and Chief Procurement Officer at StatoilHydro ASA, March 2006 to November 2007.



Jean-Francois Poupeau51Executive Vice President Corporate Development and Communications, since June 2012; President Drilling Group, May 2010 to June 2012; President Drilling & Measurements, July 2007
to April 2010; and Vice President Communications and Investor Relations, April 2006 to June 2007.



Stephanie Cox44Vice President Human Resources, since May 2009; and North Gulf Coast GeoMarket Manager, April 2006 to May 2009.



Mark Danton56Vice President – Director of Taxes, since January 1999.



Aaron Gatt Floridia44President, Reservoir Characterization Group, since August 2011; President Middle East, May 2009 to July 2011; and General Manager – AOG, January 2007 to April
2009.



Howard Guild41Chief Accounting Officer, since July 2005.



Rodney Nelson54Vice President Government & Community Relations, since August 2011; and Vice President Communications Innovation and Collaboration, October 2007 to July
2011.



Stephen Orr49President Drilling Group, since June 2012; President M-I SWACO, September 2010 to June 2012; President – Artificial Lift, July 2008 to August 2010; and Marketing and
Technology Manager, July 2006 to June 2008.



Patrick Schorn44President Reservoir Production Group, since January 2011; President Well Services, May 2008 to January 2011; and President Completions, April 2006 to April 2008.



Krishna Shivram50Vice President Treasurer, since January 2011; Controller Drilling Group, May 2010 to January 2011; Manager Mergers & Acquisitions, May 2009 to April 2010; and Controller
Oilfield Services, August 2006 to April 2009.



Malcolm Theobald51Vice President Investor Relations, since June 2007.

Available Information

The Schlumberger Internet website iswww.slb.com. Schlumberger uses its Investor Relations website,www.slb.com/ir, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including
news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. Schlumberger makes available free of charge on or through its Investor Relations website atwww.slb.com/iraccess to its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on






Form 8-K, its proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC’s Internet website atwww.sec.gov.

Schlumberger’s corporate governance materials, including Board Committee Charters, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics, may also be
found atwww.slb.com/ir. From time to time, corporate governance materials on our website may be updated to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) or as desirable to promote the effective
governance of Schlumberger.

Any stockholder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of
Schlumberger’s SEC filings should write to the Secretary, Schlumberger Limited, 5599 San Felipe, 17thFloor, Houston, Texas 77056, USA.

Schlumberger has filed the required
certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Form 10-K.

The
information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K or any other filing Schlumberger makes with the SEC.



