Item 1.Business.

IDEX Corporation (“IDEX” or the “Company”) is a Delaware corporation incorporated on September 24, 1987. The
Company is an applied solutions business that sells an extensive array of pumps, flow meters and other fluidics systems and components and engineered products to customers in a variety of markets around the world. All of the Company’s business
activities are carried out through wholly-owned subsidiaries.

IDEX has three reportable business segments: Fluid &
Metering Technologies, Health & Science Technologies and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products. Reporting units in the Fluid & Metering Technologies segment consist of: Banjo; Energy & Fuels (“Energy”);
Chemical, Food & Process (“CFP”); Diaphragm & Dosing Pump Technology (“DDPT”) and Water Services & Technology (“WST”). Reporting units in the Health & Science Technologies segment
consist of: IDEX Health & Science (“IH&S”); IDEX Optics & Photonics (“IOP”); Containment; Gast; Micropump and Materials Process Technologies (“MPT”). Reporting units in the Fire &
Safety/Diversified Products segment consist of: Fire Suppression; Rescue; Band-It; and Dispensing Equipment.

In the fourth
quarter of 2012, the Company reorganized the reporting units under CFP and Water & Wastewater (“Water”) reporting units within the Fluid & Metering Technologies segment. The DDPT reporting unit was created to focus on the
product technology platform around our core diaphragm and dosing pumps and will consist of Knight and Pulsafeeder from the Water reporting unit and Trebor and Warren Rupp from the CFP reporting unit. The WST reporting unit was created to focus on
services provided to end customers in the municipal end markets and will include ADS, IETG, and iPEK from the Water reporting unit. The remaining business units in CFP will consist of Viking and Richter.

IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in its product and service areas. The Company also believes that its strong
financial performance has been attributable to its ability to design and engineer specialized quality products, coupled with its ability to identify and successfully consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions.

FLUID & METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT

The Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment designs, produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, flow meters, injectors, and other fluid-handling pump modules and systems and provides
flow monitoring and other services for the water and wastewater industries. Fluid & Metering Technologies application-specific pump and metering solutions serve a diverse range of end markets, including industrial infrastructure (fossil
fuels, refined & alternative fuels, and water & wastewater), chemical processing, agricultural, food & beverage, pulp & paper, transportation, plastics and resins, electronics and electrical,
construction & mining, pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical, machinery and numerous other specialty niche markets. Fluid & Metering Technologies accounted for 43% of IDEX’s sales and 82% of IDEX’s operating income
in 2012, with approximately 46% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.

Banjo.Banjo is a
provider of special purpose, severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid handling. Banjo is based in Crawfordsville, Indiana and its products are used in agricultural and industrial applications. Approximately 11% of Banjo’s
2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Energy & Fuels.Energy consists of the
Company’s Corken, Faure Herman, Liquid Controls, S.A.M.P.I. and Toptech businesses. Energy is a leading supplier of flow meters, electronic registration and control products, rotary vane and turbine pumps, reciprocating piston compressors, and
terminal automation control systems. Headquartered in Lake Bluff, Illinois (Liquid Controls and Sponsler products), Energy has additional facilities in Longwood, Florida and Zwijndrech, Belgium (Toptech products); Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (Corken
products);







La Ferté Bernard, France (Faure Herman products); and Altopascio, Italy (S.A.M.P.I. products). Applications for Liquid Controls and S.A.M.P.I. positive displacement flow meters,
electronic, registration and control products include mobile and stationary metering installations for wholesale and retail distribution of petroleum and liquefied petroleum gas, aviation refueling, and industrial metering and dispensing of liquids
and gases. Corken products consist of positive-displacement rotary vane pumps, single and multistage regenerative turbine pumps, and small horsepower reciprocating piston compressors. Toptech supplies terminal automation hardware and software to
control and manage inventories, as well as transactional data and invoicing, to customers in the oil, gas and refined-fuels markets. Faure Herman is a leading supplier of ultrasonic and helical turbine flow meters used in the custody transfer and
control of high value fluids and gases. Approximately 53% of Energy’s 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Chemical, Food & Process.CFP consists of the Company’s Richter and Viking businesses. CFP is a producer of fluoroplastic lined corrosion-resistant magnetic
drive and mechanical seal pumps, shut-off, control and safety valves for corrosive, hazardous, contaminated, pure and high-purity fluids, as well as rotary internal gear, external gear, vane and rotary lobe pumps, custom-engineered OEM pumps,
strainers, gear reducers and engineered pump systems. Richter’s corrosion resistant fluoroplastic lined products offer superior solutions for demanding applications in the process industry. Viking’s products consist of external gear pumps,
strainers and reducers, and related controls used for transferring and metering thin and viscous liquids sold under the
Viking®and Wright Flowbrands. Viking products primarily serve the chemical, petroleum, pulp & paper, plastics, paints, inks, tanker
trucks, compressor, construction, food & beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and biotech markets. CFP maintains operations in Kempen, Germany (Richter products); Cedar Falls, Iowa (Richter and Viking products); Eastbourne, East Sussex,
England and Shannon, Ireland (Viking products). CFP primarily uses independent distributors to market and sell its products. Approximately 54% of CFP’s 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Diaphragm & Dosing Pump Technology.

Water Services &
Technology.WST consists of the Company’s ADS, IETG and iPEK businesses. WST is a leading provider of metering technology and flow monitoring products and underground surveillance services for wastewater markets.
ADS’s products and services provide comprehensive integrated solutions that enable industry, municipalities and government agencies to analyze and measure the capacity, quality and integrity of wastewater collection systems, including the
maintenance and construction of such systems. IETG’s products and services enable water companies to effectively manage their water distribution and sewerage networks, while its







surveillance service specializes in underground asset detection and mapping for utilities and other private companies. iPEK supplies remote controlled systems used for infrastructure inspection.
WST maintains operations in Huntsville, Alabama and various other locations in the United States and Australia (ADS products and services); Leeds, England (IETG products and services); and Hirschegg, Austria, and Sulzberg, Germany (iPEK products).
Approximately 40% of WST’s 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

HEALTH & SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT

The Health & Science Technologies Segment designs, produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics,
rotary lobe pumps, centrifugal and positive displacement pumps, roll compaction and drying systems used in beverage, food processing, pharmaceutical and cosmetics, pneumatic components and sealing solutions, including very high precision, low-flow
rate pumping solutions required in analytical instrumentation, clinical diagnostics and drug discovery, high performance molded and extruded, biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air compressors used in medical, dental and industrial
applications, optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, defense, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing, laboratory and commercial equipment used in the production of micro and nano
scale materials, precision photonic solutions used in life sciences, research and defense markets, and precision gear and peristaltic pump technologies that meet exacting original equipment manufacturer specifications. The segment accounted for 35%
of IDEX’s sales and (35)% of operating income in 2012, with approximately 54% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.

IDEX Health & Science.

IDEX Optics and Photonics.IOP consists of CVI Melles Griot (“CVI MG”), Semrock and AT Films (the
Precision Photonics portion of the AT Films business was acquired in April 2012). CVI MG is a global leader in the design and manufacture of precision photonic solutions used in the life sciences, research, semiconductor, security and defense
markets. CVI MG’s innovative products are focused on the generation, control and productive use of light for a variety of key science and industrial applications. Products consist of specialty lasers and light sources, electro-optical
components, specialty shutters, opto-mechanical assemblies and components. In addition, CVI MG produces critical components for life science research, electronics manufacturing, military and other industrial applications including lenses, mirrors,
filters and polarizers. These components are utilized in a number of important applications such as spectroscopy, cytometry (cell counting), guidance systems for target







designation, remote sensing, menology and optical lithography. CVI MG is headquartered in Albuquerque, New Mexico, with additional manufacturing sites located in Carlsbad, California; Rochester,
New York; Isle of Man, British Isles; Leicester, England; Kyongki-Do, Korea; Tokyo, Japan; Didam, The Netherlands; and Singapore. Semrock is a provider of optical filters for biotech and analytical instrumentation in the life sciences markets.
Semrock’s optical filters are produced using state-of-the-art manufacturing processes which enable it to offer its customers significant improvements in instrument performance and reliability. Semrock is located in Rochester, New York. AT Films
specializes in optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, defense, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing. AT Films’ core competence is the design and manufacture of filters,
splitters, reflectors and mirrors with the precise physical properties required to support their customers’ most challenging and cutting-edge optical applications. The Precision Photonics portion of its business specializes in optical
components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing. AT Films is headquartered in Boulder, Colorado. Approximately 57% of IOP’s 2012 sales were to customers
outside the U.S.

Containment.Containment consists of Precision Polymer Engineering
(“PPE”). PPE, which is located in Blackburn, England, is a provider of proprietary high performance seals and advanced sealing solutions for a diverse range of global industries and applications, including hazardous duty, analytical
instrumentation, semiconductor/solar, process technologies, pharmaceutical, electronics, and food applications. Approximately 79% of PPE’s 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Gast.Gast consists of the Company’s Gast and Jun-Air businesses. The Gast business is a leading
manufacturer of air-moving products, including air motors, low-range and medium-range vacuum pumps, vacuum generators, regenerative blowers and fractional horsepower compressors. Gast products are used in a variety of long-life applications
requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure. Gast products primarily serve the medical equipment, environmental equipment, computers and electronics, printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery, graphic
arts, and industrial manufacturing markets. The Jun-Air business is a provider of low-decibel, ultra-quiet vacuum compressors suitable for medical, dental and laboratory applications. Based in Benton Harbor, Michigan, Gast also has a logistics and
commercial center in Redditch, England. Approximately 27% of Gast’s 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Micropump.Micropump, headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, is a leader in small, precision-engineered,
magnetically and electromagnetically driven rotary gear, piston and centrifugal pumps. Micropump products are used in low-flow abrasive and corrosive applications. Micropump products primarily serve the printing machinery, medical equipment,
paints and inks, chemical processing, pharmaceutical, refining, laboratory, electronics, pulp and paper, water treatment, textiles, peristaltic metering pumps, analytical process controllers and sample preparation systems markets.
Approximately 77% of Micropump’s 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Materials Process
Technologies.

®







Matcon’s innovative products consist of the original cone valve powder discharge system and filling, mixing and packaging systems, all of which support its customers’ automation and
process requirements. Matcon’s products are critical to its customers’ need to maintain clean, reliable and repeatable formulations of prepackaged foods and pharmaceuticals while helping them achieve lean and agile manufacturing. Matcon is
located in Evesham, Worcestershire, England. Approximately 61% of MPT’s 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

FIRE &
SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT

The Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment produces firefighting pumps
and controls, rescue tools, lifting bags and other components and systems for the fire and rescue industry, engineered stainless steel banding and clamping devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial applications, and precision equipment
for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. The segment accounted for 22% of IDEX’s sales and 53% of IDEX’s operating income in 2012, with approximately
56% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.

Fire Suppression.Fire Suppression consists of
the Company’s Class 1, Hale and Godiva businesses, which produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless steel valves, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules and pump kits, electronic controls and information systems,
conventional and networked electrical systems, and mechanical components for the fire, rescue and specialty vehicle markets. Fire Suppression’s customers are primarily OEMs. Fire Suppression is headquartered in Ocala, Florida (Class 1 and
Hale products), with additional facilities located in Warwick, England (Godiva products). Approximately 41% of Fire Suppression’s 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Rescue.Rescue consists of the Company’s Dinglee, Hurst Jaws of Life, Lukas and Vetter businesses,
which produce hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic lifting and sealing bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue,
environmental protection and disaster control, and shoring equipment for vehicular or structural collapse. Rescue Tool’s customers are primarily public and private fire and rescue organizations. Rescue has facilities in Shelby, North Carolina
(Hurst Jaws of Life products); Tianjin, China (Dinglee products); Erlangen, Germany (Lukas products); and Zulpich, Germany (Vetter products). Approximately 75% of Rescue’s 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Band-It.Band-It is a leading producer of high-quality stainless steel banding,
buckles and clamping systems. The BAND-IT®brand is highly recognized worldwide. Band-It products are used for
securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, industrial hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable shielding, identification and bundling, and in numerous other industrial and commercial applications. Band-It products primarily
serve the automotive, transportation equipment, oil and gas, general industrial maintenance, electronics, electrical, communications, aerospace, utility, municipal and subsea marine markets. Band-It is based in Denver, Colorado, with additional
operations in Staveley, Derbyshire, England, and a IDEX shared manufacturing facility in China. Approximately 39% of Band-It’s 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Dispensing Equipment.Dispensing Equipment produces precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing
colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. Dispensing Equipment is a global supplier of precision-designed tinting, mixing, dispensing and measuring equipment for auto refinishing and
architectural paints. Dispensing Equipment products are used in retail and commercial stores, hardware stores, home centers, department stores, automotive body shops as well as point-of-purchase dispensers. Dispensing Equipment is headquartered in
Wheeling, Illinois with additional facilities in Sassenheim, The Netherlands; Unanderra, Australia; and Milan, Italy, as well as IDEX shared manufacturing facilities in India and China. Approximately 59% of Dispensing Equipment’s 2012 sales
were to customers outside the U.S.







INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS IN GENERAL AND ITS SEGMENTS

Competitors

The Company’s businesses participate in highly competitive markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities, product
development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery, and effectiveness of our distribution channels.

Principal competitors of the Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment are the Pump Solutions Group (Maag, Blackmer and Wilden products) of Dover Corporation (with respect to pumps and small
horsepower compressors used in liquified petroleum gas distribution facilities, rotary gear pumps, and air-operated double-diaphragm pumps); Milton Roy (with respect to metering pumps and controls); and Tuthill Corporation (with respect to rotary
gear pumps).

Principal competitors of the Health & Science Technologies Segment are the Thomas division of Gardner
Denver, Inc. (with respect to vacuum pumps and compressors); Thermo Scientific Dionex products (with respect to analytical instrumentation); Parker Hannifin (with respect to sealing devices); Valco Instruments Co., Inc. (with respect to fluid
injectors and valves); and Gooch & Housego PLC (with respect to electro-optic and precision photonics solutions used in the life sciences market).

The principal competitors of the Fire & Safety/Diversified Products Segment are Waterous Company, a unit of American Cast Iron Pipe Company (with respect to truck-mounted firefighting pumps),
Holmatro, Inc. (with respect to rescue), CPS Color Group Oy, which is owned by Nordic Capital (with respect to dispensing and mixing equipment for the paint industry) and Panduit Corporation (with respect to stainless steel bands, buckles and
tools).

Employees

At December 31, 2012, the Company had 6,717 employees. Approximately 8% of employees were represented by labor unions, with various contracts expiring through June 2015. Management believes that
the Company’s relationship with its employees is good. The Company historically has been able to renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements satisfactorily, with its last work stoppage in March 1993.

Suppliers

The Company manufactures many of the parts and components used in its products. Substantially all materials, parts and components purchased by the Company are available from multiple sources.

Inventory and Backlog

The Company regularly and systematically adjusts production schedules and quantities based on the flow of incoming orders. Backlogs typically are limited to one to one and a half months of production.
While total inventory levels also may be affected by changes in orders, the Company generally tries to maintain relatively stable inventory levels based on its assessment of the requirements of the various industries served.

Raw Materials

The Company uses a wide variety of raw materials which are generally available from a number of sources. As a result, shortages from any single supplier have not had, and are not likely to have a material
impact on operations.







Shared Services

The Company has production facilities in Suzhou, China and Vadodara, India that support multiple business units. IDEX also has personnel
in China, India and Singapore that provide sales and marketing, product design and engineering, and sourcing support to its business units, as well as personnel in various locations in Europe, South America, the Middle East and Japan to support
sales and marketing efforts of IDEX businesses in those regions.

Segment Information

For segment financial information for the years 2012, 2011, and 2010, see, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Set forth below are the names of the executive officers of the Company, their ages, years of service, the positions held by them, and their business experience during the past 5 years.



NameAgeYears 
ofServicePositionAndrew K. Silvernail424Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerHeath A. Mitts427Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerFrank J. Notaro4915Vice President-General Counsel and SecretaryDaniel J. Salliotte468Vice President-Mergers, Acquisitions and TreasuryMichael J. Yates477Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

Mr. Silvernail has served as Chief Executive Officer since August 2011 and as Chairman of the Board
since January 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Silvernail was Vice President-Group Executive Health & Science Technologies, Global Dispensing and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products since January 2011. From February 2010 to December
2010, Mr. Silvernail was Vice President-Group Executive Health & Sciences Technologies and Global Dispensing. Mr. Silvernail joined IDEX in January 2009 as Vice President-Group Executive Health & Science Technologies.
Prior to joining IDEX, Mr. Silvernail served as Group President at Rexnord Industries from April 2005 to August 2008.

Mr. Mitts has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since March 2011. Mr. Mitts was hired as Vice
President-Corporate Finance in September 2005.

Mr. Notaro has served as Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary
since March 1998.

Mr. Salliotte has served as Vice President-Mergers, Acquisitions and Treasury since February 2011.
Mr. Salliotte joined IDEX in October 2004 as Vice President-Strategy and Business Development.

Mr. Yates has served
as Vice-President and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2010. Mr. Yates was hired as Vice President-Controller in October 2005.

The Company’s executive officers are elected at a meeting of the Board of Directors immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders, and they serve until the next annual meeting of the
Board, or until their successors are duly elected and qualified or their death, resignation or removal.

Public Filings

Copies of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are made available free of charge at www.idexcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after being filed electronically with the SEC. Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s
website, www.sec.gov. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.







