Item 1.Business.



IDEX Corporation (“IDEX” or the “Company”)
    is a Delaware Corporation incorporated on September 24,
    1987. The Company is an applied solutions business that sells an
    extensive array of pumps, flow meters and other fluidics systems
    and components and engineered products to customers in a variety
    of markets around the world. All of the Company’s business
    activities are carried out through wholly-owned subsidiaries.



IDEX has four reportable business segments: Fluid &
    Metering Technologies, Health & Science Technologies,
    Dispensing Equipment, and Fire & Safety/Diversified
    Products. Reporting units in the Fluid & Metering
    Technologies segment include Banjo, Energy (Corken, Faure
    Herman, Liquid Controls, S.A.M.P.I., Sponsler and Toptech
    products), Industrial Process Technology, (IDEX AODD (Pumper
    Parts, Versa-Matic and Warren Rupp products), Richter, Sanitary
    (Knight, Quadro and Wright Flow products), and Viking (Blagdon
    and Viking products)) and Water (ADS, IETG, iPEK, and
    Pulsafeeder products). Reporting units in the Health &
    Science Technologies segment include Health & Science
    Technologies (“HST”) Core (Eastern Plastics,
    Innovadyne, Isolation Technologies, Rheodyne, Sapphire
    Engineering, Semrock, Systec and Upchurch Scientific products),
    Gast (Gast and Jun-Air products), and Micropump (Ismatec,
    Micropump and Trebor products). The Dispensing Equipment segment
    is a reporting unit and includes FAST & Fluid
    Management and Fluid Management products. Reporting units in the
    Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment include
    Fire Suppression (Class 1, Godiva and Hale products),
    Rescue Tools (Dinglee, Hurst, Lukas and Vetter products) and
    Band-It.



IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in
    its product and service areas. The Company also believes that
    its strong financial performance has been attributable to its
    ability to design and engineer specialized quality products,
    coupled with its ability to identify and successfully consummate
    and integrate strategic acquisitions.



FLUID &
    METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT



The Fluid & Metering Technologies segment designs,
    produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, flow
    meters, injectors, and other fluid-handling pump modules and
    systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for
    water and wastewater. Fluid & Metering Technologies
    application-specific pump and metering solutions serve a diverse
    range of end markets, including industrial infrastructure
    (fossil fuels, refined & alternative fuels, and
    water & wastewater), chemical processing,
    agricultural, food & beverage, pulp & paper,
    transportation, plastics & resins,
    electronics & electrical, construction &
    mining, pharmaceutical & bio-pharmaceutical, machinery
    and numerous other specialty niche markets. Fluid &
    Metering Technologies accounted for 48% of IDEX’s sales and
    44% of IDEX’s operating income in 2009, with approximately
    46% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.



Banjo.Banjo is a provider of special purpose,
    severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid
    handling. Banjo is based in Crawfordsville, Indiana and its
    products are used in agricultural and industrial applications.
    Approximately 11% of Banjo’s 2009 sales were to customers
    outside the U.S.



Energy.





factors. Toptech supplies terminal automation hardware and
    software to control and manage inventories, as well as
    transactional data and invoicing, to customers in the oil, gas
    and refined-fuels markets. In February 2007, IDEX acquired Faure
    Herman, a leading supplier of ultrasonic and helical turbine
    flow meters used in the custody transfer and control of high
    value fluids and gases. Approximately 54% of Energy’s 2009
    sales were to customers outside the U.S.



Industrial Process Technologies.

®

®



Water and Waste Water
    (“Water”).



HEALTH &
    SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT



The Health & Science Technologies Segment designs,
    produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics
    solutions, including very high precision, low-flow rate pumping
    solutions required in analytical instrumentation, clinical
    diagnostics and drug discovery, high performance molded and
    extruded, biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air
    compressors used in medical, dental and industrial applications,
    and precision gear





and peristaltic pump technologies that meet exacting OEM
    specifications. The segment accounted for 23% of both
    IDEX’s sales and operating income in 2009, with
    approximately 39% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.



HST Core.

state-of-the-art



Gast.Gast includes the Company’s Gast
    and Jun-Air businesses. The Gast business is a leading
    manufacturer of air-moving products, including air motors,
    low-range and medium-range vacuum pumps, vacuum generators,
    regenerative blowers and fractional horsepower compressors. Gast
    products are used in a variety of long-life applications
    requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure.
    Markets served by Gast products include medical equipment,
    environmental equipment, computers & electronics,
    printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery,
    graphic arts, and industrial manufacturing. Based in Benton
    Harbor, Michigan, Gast also has a facility in Redditch, England.
    Jun-Air is a provider of low-decibel, ultra-quiet vacuum
    compressors suitable for medical, dental and laboratory
    applications. Based in Norresundby, Denmark, Jun-Air has
    additional operations in Lyon, France, and Dankeryd, The
    Netherlands. Approximately 32% of Gast’s 2009 sales were to
    customers outside the U.S.



Micropump.Micropump includes the
    Company’s Ismatec, Micropump and Trebor businesses.
    Micropump, headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, is a leader
    in small, precision-engineered, magnetically and
    electromagnetically driven rotary gear, piston and centrifugal
    pumps. Micropump products are used in low-flow abrasive and
    corrosive applications. Markets served by Micropump products
    include printing machinery, medical equipment,
    paints & inks, chemical processing, pharmaceutical,
    refining, laboratory, electronics, pulp & paper, water
    treatment, textiles, peristaltic metering pumps, analytical
    process controllers and sample preparation systems. Ismatec, a
    leading manufacturer of peristaltic metering pumps, analytical
    process controllers, and sample preparation systems, has
    facilities in Glattbrugg, Switzerland and Wertheim-Mondfeld,
    Germany. Located in Salt Lake City, Utah, the Trebor business is
    a leader in high-purity fluid handling products, including
    air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized water-heating
    systems. Trebor products are used in manufacturing of
    semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays.
    Approximately 67% of Micropump’s 2009 sales were to
    customers outside the U.S.



DISPENSING
    EQUIPMENT SEGMENT



The Dispensing Equipment Segment produces precision equipment
    for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants, paints, and hair
    colorants and other personal care products used in a variety of
    retail and commercial





businesses around the world. The segment accounted for 9% of
    IDEX’s sales and 7% of IDEX’s operating income in
    2009, with approximately 64% of its sales to customers outside
    the U.S.



Dispensing Equipment is a leading American, European and Asian
    supplier of precision-designed tinting, mixing, dispensing and
    measuring equipment for auto refinishing, architectural paints
    and personal care products. Dispensing Equipment equipment is
    used in retail and commercial stores, hardware stores, home
    centers, department stores, automotive body shops as well aspoint-of-purchasedispensers and mixing equipment for the personal care and health
    and beauty industry. Dispensing Equipment is currently pursuing
    opportunities to use its precision mixing, dispensing and
    measuring expertise in the food and beverage areas. Dispensing
    Equipment is headquartered in Wheeling, Illinois, with
    additional operations in Sassenheim, The Netherlands, Unanderra,
    Australia; Gennevilliers, France; Milan, Italy; Torun, Poland;
    Barcelona, Spain; and Scarborough, Ontario, Canada.
    Approximately 64% of Dispensing Equipment’s 2009 sales were
    to customers outside the U.S.



FIRE &
    SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT



The Fire & Safety/Diversified Products Segment
    produces firefighting pumps and controls, rescue tools, lifting
    bags and other components and systems for the fire and rescue
    industry, and engineered stainless steel banding and clamping
    devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial
    applications. The segment accounted for 20% of IDEX’s sales
    and 26% of IDEX’s operating income in 2009, with
    approximately 53% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.



Fire Suppression.Fire Suppression includes
    the Company’s Class 1, Hale and Godiva businesses,
    which produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless
    steel valves, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules
    and pump kits, electronic controls and information systems,
    conventional and networked electrical systems, and mechanical
    components for the fire, rescue and specialty vehicle markets.
    Fire Suppression’s customers are primarily OEMs. Fire
    Suppression is headquartered in Ocala, Florida (Class 1
    products), with additional facilities located in Conshohocken,
    Pennsylvania (Hale products); Neenah, Wisconsin (Class 1
    products); and Warwick, England (Godiva products). Approximately
    34% of Fire Suppression’s 2009 sales were to customers
    outside the U.S.



Rescue Tools.Rescue tools includes the
    Company’s Dinglee, Hurst, Lukas and Vetter businesses,
    which produce hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated
    rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic
    tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic
    lifting and sealing bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue,
    environmental protection and disaster control, and shoring
    equipment for vehicular or structural collapse. Markets served
    by Rescue Tools products include public and private fire and
    rescue organizations. Rescue Tools has facilities in Shelby,
    North Carolina (Hurst products); Tianjin, China (Dinglee
    products); Erlangen, Germany (Lukas products); and Zulpich,
    Germany (Vetter products). Approximately 77% of Rescue
    Tools’s 2009 sales were to customers outside the U.S.



Band-It.Band-It is a leading producer of
    high-quality stainless steel banding, buckles and clamping
    systems. The
    BAND-IT®brand is highly recognized worldwide. Band-It products are used
    for securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, industrial
    hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable
    shielding, identification and bundling, and numerous other
    industrial and commercial applications. Markets for Band-It
    products include transportation equipment, oil & gas,
    general industrial maintenance, electronics, electrical,
    communications, aerospace, utility, municipal and subsea marine.
    Band-It is based in Denver, Colorado, with additional operations
    in Staveley Near Chesterfield, Derbyshire, England, and
    Singapore. Approximately 42% of Band-It’s 2009 sales were
    to customers outside the U.S.



GENERAL
    ASPECTS APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS
    SEGMENTS



Competitors



The Company’s businesses participate in highly competitive
    markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition
    are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities,
    product development, conformity to customer specifications,
    quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery, and
    effectiveness of our distribution channels.





Principal competitors of the Fluid & Metering
    Technologies Segment are the Pump Solutions Group (Blackmer and
    Wilden products) of Dover Corporation (with respect to pumps and
    small horsepower compressors used in liquified petroleum gas
    distribution facilities, rotary gear pumps, and air-operated
    double-diaphragm pumps); the Milton Roy unit of United
    Technologies Corporation (with respect to metering pumps and
    controls); and Tuthill Corporation (with respect to rotary gear
    pumps).



Principal competitors of the Health & Science
    Technologies Segment are the Thomas division of Gardner Denver,
    Inc. (with respect to vacuum pumps and compressors); and Valco
    Instruments Co., Inc. (with respect to fluid injectors and
    valves).



The principal competitor of the Dispensing Equipment Segment is
    CPS Color Group Oy, which is owned by Nordic Capital (with
    respect to dispensing and mixing equipment for the paint
    industry).



The principal competitors of the Fire &
    Safety/Diversified Products Segment are Waterous Company, a unit
    of American Cast Iron Pipe Company (with respect to
    truck-mounted firefighting pumps), Holmatro, Inc. (with respect
    to rescue tools), and Panduit Corporation (with respect to
    stainless steel bands, buckles and tools).



Employees



At December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately
    5,300 employees. Approximately 8% were represented by labor
    unions with various contracts expiring through February 2012.
    Management believes that the Company’s relationship with
    their employees is good. The Company historically has been able
    to satisfactorily renegotiate its collective bargaining
    agreements, with its last work stoppage in March 1993.



Suppliers



The Company manufactures many of the parts and components used
    in its products. Substantially all materials, parts and
    components purchased by the Company are available from multiple
    sources.



Inventory
    and Backlog



The Company regularly and systematically adjusts production
    schedules and quantities based on the flow of incoming orders.
    Backlogs typically are limited to 1 to
    11/2months of production. While total inventory levels also may be
    affected by changes in orders, the Company generally tries to
    maintain relatively stable inventory levels based on its
    assessment of the requirements of the various industries served.



Shared
    Services



The Company has two production facilities in Suzhou, China, that
    support multiple IDEX business units. IDEX also has personnel in
    China, India and Singapore that provide sales and marketing,
    product design and engineering, and sourcing support to IDEX
    business units, as well as personnel in various locations in
    Europe, South America, the Middle East and Japan to support
    sales and marketing efforts of IDEX businesses in those regions.



Segment
    Information



For segment financial information for the years 2009, 2008, and
    2007, see the table titled “Company and Business Segment
    Financial Information” presented on page 17 in
    Part II. Item 7. “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” and Note 13 of the “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 48 in
    Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data.





Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth the names of the executive
    officers of the Company, their ages, years of service, the
    positions held by them, and their business experience during the
    past 5 years.



Years ofNameAgeServicePositionLawrence D. Kingsley475Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerDominic A. Romeo506Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerHarold Morgan522Vice President-Human ResourcesJohn L. McMurray5917Vice President-Group Executive Process TechnologiesHeath A. Mitts394Vice President-Corporate FinanceFrank J. Notaro4612Vice President-General Counsel and SecretaryDaniel J. Salliotte435Vice President-Strategy and Business DevelopmentMichael J. Yates444Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerKevin G. Hostetler414Vice President, Group Executive Fluid and Metering TechnologiesAndrew K. Silvernail381Vice President, Group Executive Health and Science Technologies
    and Global Dispensing





Mr. Kingsley has been Chairman of the Board since
    April  2006. He was appointed to the position of President
    and Chief Executive Officer in March 2005. Mr. Kingsley was
    hired as Chief Operating Officer in August 2004.



Mr. Romeo has been Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer of the Company since January 2004.



Mr. Morgan has been Vice President-Human Resources of the
    Company since June 2008. From February 2003 to June 2008,
    Mr. Morgan was Senior Vice President and Chief
    Administrative Officer for Bally Total Fitness Corporation.



Mr. McMurray has been Vice President-Group Executive
    Process Technologies since August 2003. In February  2010,
    IDEX announced that Mr. McMurray will be retiring in April
    2011. He will remain a corporate officer through his retirement
    with responsibilities for operational excellence, supply chain
    and environment, health and safety through his retirement date.



Mr. Mitts has been Vice President-Corporate Finance since
    September 2005. Prior to joining IDEX, Mr. Mitts was Chief
    Financial Officer of PerkinElmer’s Asia operations, based
    out of Singapore, from February 2002 to September 2005.



Mr. Notaro has served as Vice President-General Counsel and
    Secretary since March 1998.



Mr. Salliotte has been Vice President-Strategy and Business
    Development of the Company since October 2004.



Mr. Yates was appointed Vice-President and Chief Accounting
    Officer in February  2010. Mr. Yates was hired as Vice
    President-Controller in October 2005. Prior to joining IDEX,
    Mr. Yates was a Senior Manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP from November 1999 to October 2005.



Mr. Hostetler was appointed Vice President, Group Executive
    Fluid and Metering Technologies in February 2010.
    Mr. Hostetler joined IDEX in July 2005 as President of the
    Liquid Controls Group and was then appointed Vice President,
    Group Executive and President Energy and Water and IDEX Asia in
    December 2008. Prior to joining IDEX, Mr. Hostetler was
    General Manager, Assembly Solutions at Ingersoll-Rand.





Mr. Silvernail was appointed Vice President, Group
    Executive Health and Science Technologies and Global Dispensing
    in February 2010. From January 2009 to February 2010,
    Mr. Silvernail was Vice President, Group Executive Health
    and Science Technologies. Prior to joining IDEX,
    Mr. Silvernail served as Group President at Rexnord
    Industries from April 2005 to August 2008 and Group Vice
    President of Business Development at Newell Rubbermaid from
    September 2002 to February 2005.



The Company’s executive officers are elected at a meeting
    of the Board of Directors immediately following the annual
    meeting of stockholders, and they serve until the next annual
    meeting of the Board, or until their successors are duly elected.



Public
    Filings



Copies of the Company’s annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports are made available free of
    charge at www.idexcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable
    after being filed electronically with the SEC. Our reports are
    also available free of charge on the SEC’s website,
    www.sec.gov.



