Item 1.Business.



IDEX Corporation (“IDEX” or the “Company”)
    is a Delaware corporation incorporated on September 24,
    1987. The Company is an applied solutions business that sells an
    extensive array of pumps, flow meters and other fluidics systems
    and components and engineered products to customers in a variety
    of markets around the world. All of the Company’s business
    activities are carried out through wholly-owned subsidiaries.



IDEX has four reportable business segments: Fluid &
    Metering Technologies, Health & Science Technologies,
    Dispensing Equipment, and Fire & Safety/Diversified
    Products. Reporting units in the Fluid & Metering
    Technologies segment include Banjo, Energy, Chemical,
    Food & Pharmaceuticals (“CFP”) and
    Water & Waste Water (“Water”). Reporting
    units in the Health & Science Technologies segment
    include IDEX Health & Science (“IH&S”),
    Semrock, Precision Polymer Engineering (“PPE”),
    previously referred to as Seals, Ltd, Gast and Micropump. The
    Dispensing Equipment segment is a reporting unit. Reporting
    units in the Fire &Safety/DiversifiedProducts segment include Fire Suppression, Rescue Tools and
    Band-It.



IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in
    its product and service areas. The Company also believes that
    its strong financial performance has been attributable to its
    ability to design and engineer specialized quality products,
    coupled with its ability to identify and successfully consummate
    and integrate strategic acquisitions.



FLUID &
    METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT



The Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment designs,
    produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, flow
    meters, injectors, and other fluid-handling pump modules and
    systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for the
    water and wastewater industries. Fluid & Metering
    Technologies application-specific pump and metering solutions
    serve a diverse range of end markets, including industrial
    infrastructure (fossil fuels, refined & alternative
    fuels, and water & wastewater), chemical processing,
    agricultural, food & beverage, pulp & paper,
    transportation, plastics & resins,
    electronics & electrical, construction &
    mining, pharmaceutical & bio-pharmaceutical, machinery
    and numerous other specialty niche markets. Fluid &
    Metering Technologies accounted for 48% of IDEX’s sales and
    44% of IDEX’s operating income in 2010, with approximately
    47% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.



Banjo.Banjo is a provider of special purpose,
    severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid
    handling. Banjo is based in Crawfordsville, Indiana and its
    products are used in agricultural and industrial applications.
    Approximately 11% of Banjo’s 2010 sales were to customers
    outside the U.S.



Energy.



Chemical, Food &
    Pharmaceuticals.CFP includes the Company’s
    Quadro, Richter, Viking and Warren Rupp businesses. CFP is a
    leading producer of air-operated and motor-driven
    double-diaphragm pumps and





®

®



Water & Waste Water.

(Maquila
    Arrangement)



HEALTH &
    SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT



The Health & Science Technologies Segment designs,
    produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics and
    sealing solutions, including very high precision, low-flow rate
    pumping solutions required in analytical instrumentation,
    clinical diagnostics and drug discovery, high performance molded
    and extruded, biocompatible medical devices and implantables,
    air compressors used in medical, dental and industrial
    applications, and precision gear and peristaltic pump
    technologies that meet exacting OEM specifications. The segment
    accounted for 26% of IDEX’s sales and 28% of operating
    income in 2010, with approximately 45% of its sales to customers
    outside the U.S.





IDEX Health & Science.



Semrock.Semrock is a provider of optical
    filters for biotech and analytical instrumentation in the life
    sciences markets. Semrock’s optical filters are produced
    usingstate-of-the-artmanufacturing processes which enable it to offer its customers
    significant improvements in instrument performance and
    reliability. Semrock is located in Rochester, New York.
    Approximately 39% of Semrock’s 2010 sales were to customers
    outside the U.S.



Precision Polymer Engineering (PPE).PPE,
    which was acquired in April 2010 and is located in Blackburn,
    England, is a provider of proprietary high performance seals and
    advanced sealing solutions for a diverse range of global
    industries and applications, including hazardous duty,
    analytical instrumentation, semiconductor/solar, process
    technologies, pharmaceutical, electronics, and food
    applications. Approximately 83% of PPE’s 2010 sales were to
    customers outside the U.S.



Gast.Gast includes the Company’s Gast
    and Jun-Air businesses. The Gast business is a leading
    manufacturer of air-moving products, including air motors,
    low-range and medium-range vacuum pumps, vacuum generators,
    regenerative blowers and fractional horsepower compressors. Gast
    products are used in a variety of long-life applications
    requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure.
    Markets served by Gast products include medical equipment,
    environmental equipment, computers & electronics,
    printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery,
    graphic arts, and industrial manufacturing. Based in Benton
    Harbor, Michigan, Gast also has a facility in Redditch, England.
    Jun-Air is a provider of low-decibel, ultra-quiet vacuum
    compressors suitable for medical, dental and laboratory
    applications. Jun-Air has locations in Norresundby, Denmark and
    Lyon, France; and Dankeryd, The Netherlands. Approximately 29%
    of Gast’s 2010 sales were to customers outside the U.S.



Micropump.Micropump includes the
    Company’s Micropump and Trebor businesses. Micropump,
    headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, is a leader in small,
    precision-engineered, magnetically and electromagnetically
    driven rotary gear, piston and centrifugal pumps. Micropump
    products are used in low-flow abrasive and corrosive
    applications. Markets served by Micropump products include
    printing machinery, medical equipment, paints & inks,
    chemical processing, pharmaceutical, refining, laboratory,
    electronics, pulp & paper, water treatment, textiles,
    peristaltic metering pumps, analytical process controllers and
    sample preparation systems. Located in Salt Lake City, Utah, the
    Trebor business is a leader in high-purity fluid handling
    products, including air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized
    water-heating systems. Trebor products are used in manufacturing
    of semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays.
    Approximately 68% of Micropump’s 2010 sales were to
    customers outside the U.S.





DISPENSING
    EQUIPMENT SEGMENT



The Dispensing Equipment Segment produces precision equipment
    for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in
    a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world.
    The segment accounted for 8% of IDEX’s sales and 7% of
    IDEX’s operating income in 2010, with approximately 67% of
    its sales to customers outside the U.S. Dispensing
    Equipment is a global supplier of precision-designed tinting,
    mixing, dispensing and measuring equipment for auto refinishing
    and architectural paints. Dispensing Equipment products are used
    in retail and commercial stores, hardware stores, home centers,
    department stores, automotive body shops as well aspoint-of-purchasedispensers. Dispensing Equipment is headquartered in Wheeling,
    Illinois, with additional operations in Sassenheim, The
    Netherlands; Unanderra, Australia; Gennevilliers, France; Milan,
    Italy; Torun, Poland; Barcelona, Spain; and Scarborough,
    Ontario, Canada.



FIRE &
    SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT



The Fire & Safety/Diversified Products Segment
    produces firefighting pumps and controls, rescue tools, lifting
    bags and other components and systems for the fire and rescue
    industry, and engineered stainless steel banding and clamping
    devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial
    applications. The segment accounted for 18% of IDEX’s sales
    and 21% of IDEX’s operating income in 2010, with
    approximately 55% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.



Fire Suppression.Fire Suppression includes
    the Company’s Class 1, Hale and Godiva businesses,
    which produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless
    steel valves, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules
    and pump kits, electronic controls and information systems,
    conventional and networked electrical systems, and mechanical
    components for the fire, rescue and specialty vehicle markets.
    Fire Suppression’s customers are primarily OEMs. Fire
    Suppression is headquartered in Ocala, Florida (Class 1),
    with additional facilities located in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania
    (Hale); Neenah, Wisconsin (Class 1 and Hale); and Warwick,
    England (Godiva). Approximately 37% of Fire Suppression’s
    2010 sales were to customers outside the U.S.



Rescue Tools.Rescue Tools includes the
    Company’s Dinglee, Hurst, Lukas and Vetter businesses,
    which produce hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated
    rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic
    tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic
    lifting and sealing bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue,
    environmental protection and disaster control, and shoring
    equipment for vehicular or structural collapse. Markets served
    by Rescue Tools products include public and private fire and
    rescue organizations. Rescue Tools has facilities in Shelby,
    North Carolina (Hurst); Tianjin, China (Dinglee); Erlangen,
    Germany (Lukas); and Zulpich, Germany (Vetter). Approximately
    79% of Rescue Tools’s 2010 sales were to customers outside
    the U.S.



Band-It.Band-It is a leading producer of
    high-quality stainless steel banding, buckles and clamping
    systems. The
    BAND-IT®brand is highly recognized worldwide. Band-It products are used
    for securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, industrial
    hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable
    shielding, identification and bundling, and numerous other
    industrial and commercial applications. Markets for Band-It
    products include transportation equipment, oil & gas,
    general industrial maintenance, electronics, electrical,
    communications, aerospace, utility, municipal and subsea marine.
    Band-It is based in Denver, Colorado, with additional operations
    in Staveley Near Chesterfield, Derbyshire, England, and
    Singapore. Approximately 42% of Band-It’s 2010 sales were
    to customers outside the U.S.



GENERAL
    ASPECTS APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS
    SEGMENTS



Competitors



The Company’s businesses participate in highly competitive
    markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition
    are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities,
    product development, conformity to customer specifications,
    quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery, and
    effectiveness of our distribution channels.



Principal competitors of the Fluid & Metering
    Technologies Segment are the Pump Solutions Group (Blackmer and
    Wilden products) of Dover Corporation (with respect to pumps and
    small horsepower compressors used in liquified petroleum gas
    distribution facilities, rotary gear pumps, and air-operated
    double-diaphragm





pumps); the Milton Roy unit of United Technologies Corporation
    (with respect to metering pumps and controls); and Tuthill
    Corporation (with respect to rotary gear pumps).



Principal competitors of the Health & Science
    Technologies Segment are the Thomas division of Gardner Denver,
    Inc. (with respect to vacuum pumps and compressors); Dionex
    Corporation (with respect to analytical instrumentation); Parker
    Hannifin (with respect to sealing devices); and Valco
    Instruments Co., Inc. (with respect to fluid injectors and
    valves).



The principal competitor of the Dispensing Equipment Segment is
    CPS Color Group Oy, which is owned by Nordic Capital (with
    respect to dispensing and mixing equipment for the paint
    industry).



The principal competitors of the Fire &
    Safety/Diversified Products Segment are Waterous Company, a unit
    of American Cast Iron Pipe Company (with respect to
    truck-mounted firefighting pumps), Holmatro, Inc. (with respect
    to rescue tools), and Panduit Corporation (with respect to
    stainless steel bands, buckles and tools).



Employees



At December 31, 2010, the Company had 5,966 employees.
    Approximately 8% were represented by labor unions with various
    contracts expiring through February 2012. Management believes
    that the Company’s relationship with their employees is
    good. The Company historically has been able to satisfactorily
    renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements, with its last
    work stoppage in March 1993.



Suppliers



The Company manufactures many of the parts and components used
    in its products. Substantially all materials, parts and
    components purchased by the Company are available from multiple
    sources.



Inventory
    and Backlog



The Company regularly and systematically adjusts production
    schedules and quantities based on the flow of incoming orders.
    Backlogs typically are limited to one to one and a half months
    of production. While total inventory levels also may be affected
    by changes in orders, the Company generally tries to maintain
    relatively stable inventory levels based on its assessment of
    the requirements of the various industries served.



Raw
    Materials



The Company uses a wide variety of raw materials which are
    generally available from a number of sources. As a result,
    shortages from any single supplier have not had, and are not
    likely to have a material impact on operations.



Shared
    Services



The Company has two production facilities in Suzhou, China, that
    support multiple IDEX business units. IDEX also has personnel in
    China, India and Singapore that provide sales and marketing,
    product design and engineering, and sourcing support to IDEX
    business units, as well as personnel in various locations in
    Europe, South America, the Middle East and Japan to support
    sales and marketing efforts of IDEX businesses in those regions.



Segment
    Information



For segment financial information for the years 2010, 2009, and
    2008, see the table titled “Company and Business Segment
    Financial Information” presented on page 18 in
    Part II. Item 7. “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” and Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements in Part II. Item 8.
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.





Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth the names of the executive
    officers of the Company, their ages, years of service, the
    positions held by them, and their business experience during the
    past 5 years.



Years ofNameAgeServicePositionLawrence D. Kingsley486Chairman of the Board and Chief  Executive OfficerDominic A. Romeo517Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerKevin G. Hostetler425Vice President-Group Executive Fluid & Metering TechnologiesJohn L. McMurray6018Vice President-CorporateHeath A. Mitts405Vice President-Corporate FinanceHarold Morgan523Vice President-Human ResourcesFrank J. Notaro4713Vice President-General Counsel and SecretaryDaniel J. Salliotte446Vice President-Strategy and Business DevelopmentAndrew K. Silvernail392Vice President-Group Executive Health & Science
    Technologies, Global Dispensing and Fire &
    Safety/Diversified ProductsMichael J. Yates455Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer





Mr. Kingsley has been Chairman of the Board since April
    2006. He was appointed to the position of President and Chief
    Executive Officer in March 2005.



Mr. Romeo has been Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer of the Company since January 2004. As previously
    announced in December 2010, Mr. Romeo is retiring in
    February 2011.



Mr. Hostetler has been Vice President-Group Executive
    Fluid & Metering Technologies since February 2010.
    Mr. Hostetler joined IDEX in July 2005 as President of the
    Energy Group and was appointed Vice President, Group Executive
    and President Energy and Water and IDEX Asia in December 2008.



Mr. McMurray has served as Vice President-Corporate since
    February 2010 with responsibilities for operational excellence,
    supply chain and environment and health and safety. Prior to
    that, Mr. McMurray was Vice President-Group Executive from
    August 2003. Mr. McMurray will be retiring in April 2011.



Mr. Mitts has been Vice President-Corporate Finance since
    September 2005. In December 2010, the Company announced that
    Mr. Mitts is succeeding Mr. Romeo as Chief Financial
    Officer in February 2011.



Mr. Morgan has been Vice President-Human Resources of the
    Company since June 2008. From February 2003 to June 2008,
    Mr. Morgan was Senior Vice President and Chief
    Administrative Officer for Bally Total Fitness Corporation.



Mr. Notaro has served as Vice President-General Counsel and
    Secretary since March 1998.



Mr. Salliotte has been Vice President-Strategy and Business
    Development since October 2004.



Mr. Silvernail has been Vice President-Group Executive
    Health & Science Technologies, Global Dispensing and
    Fire & Safety/Diversified Products since January 2011.
    From February 2010 to December 2010, Mr. Silvernail was
    Vice President-Group Executive Health & Sciences
    Technologies and Global Dispensing. Mr. Silvernail joined
    IDEX in January 2009 as Vice President-Group Executive
    Health & Science Technologies. Prior to joining IDEX,
    Mr. Silvernail served as Group President at Rexnord
    Industries from April 2005 to August 2008.



Mr. Yates has been Vice-President and Chief Accounting
    Officer since February 2010. Mr. Yates was hired as Vice
    President-Controller in October 2005.





The Company’s executive officers are elected at a meeting
    of the Board of Directors immediately following the annual
    meeting of stockholders, and they serve until the next annual
    meeting of the Board, or until their successors are duly elected.



Public
    Filings



Copies of the Company’s annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports are made available free of
    charge at www.idexcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable
    after being filed electronically with the SEC. Our reports are
    also available free of charge on the SEC’s website,
    www.sec.gov. The information on the Company’s website is
    not incorporated into thisForm 10-K.



