Item 1.Business.

IDEX Corporation (“IDEX” or the “Company”) is a Delaware corporation incorporated on September 24, 1987. The
Company is an applied solutions business that sells an extensive array of pumps, flow meters and other fluidics systems and components and engineered products to customers in a variety of markets around the world. All of the Company’s business
activities are carried out through wholly-owned subsidiaries.

IDEX has four reportable business segments: Fluid &
Metering Technologies, Health & Science Technologies, Dispensing Equipment, and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products. Reporting units in the Fluid & Metering Technologies segment consist of: Banjo; Energy and Fuels
(“Energy”); Chemical, Food & Process (“CFP”) and Water & Waste Water (“Water”). Reporting units in the Health & Science Technologies segment consist of: IDEX Health & Science
(“IH&S”); IDEX Optics and Photonics (“IOP”); Precision Polymer Engineering (“PPE”); Gast; Micropump and Materials Process Technologies (“MPT”) which we previously referred to as the Pharma group. The
Dispensing Equipment segment is a reporting unit. Reporting units in the Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment consist of: Fire Suppression; Rescue Tools and Band-It.

IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in its product and service areas. The Company also believes that its strong
financial performance has been attributable to its ability to design and engineer specialized quality products, coupled with its ability to identify and successfully consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions.

FLUID & METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT

The Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment designs, produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, flow meters, injectors, and other fluid-handling pump modules and systems and provides
flow monitoring and other services for the water and wastewater industries. Fluid & Metering Technologies application-specific pump and metering solutions serve a diverse range of end markets, including industrial infrastructure (fossil
fuels, refined & alternative fuels, and water & wastewater), chemical processing, agricultural, food & beverage, pulp & paper, transportation, plastics & resins, electronics & electrical,
construction & mining, pharmaceutical & bio-pharmaceutical, machinery and numerous other specialty niche markets. Fluid & Metering Technologies accounted for 44% of IDEX’s sales and 45% of IDEX’s operating income
in 2011, with approximately 49% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.

Banjo.Banjo is a
provider of special purpose, severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid handling. Banjo is based in Crawfordsville, Indiana and its products are used in agricultural and industrial applications. Approximately 11% of Banjo’s
2011 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Energy.







Chemical, Food & Process.CFP
consists of the Company’s Richter, Viking and Warren Rupp businesses. CFP is a leading producer of air-operated and motor-driven double-diaphragm pumps and replacement parts, premium quality lined pumps, valves and control equipment for the
chemical, fine chemical and pharmaceutical industries, and external gear pumps. Richter’s corrosion resistant fluoroplastic lined products offer superior solutions for demanding applications in the process industry. Viking’s products
consist of external gear pumps, strainers and reducers, and related controls used for transferring and metering thin and viscous liquids sold under the Viking®and Wright Flow

TM

brands and air-operated double-diaphragm pumps sold under the
Blagdon®brand. Markets served by Viking products include chemical, petroleum, pulp & paper, plastics,
paints, inks, tanker trucks, compressor, construction, food & beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and biotech. Warren Rupp products (which also include Pumper Parts and Versa-Matic products) are used for abrasive and semisolid materials
as well as for applications where product degradation is a concern or where electricity is not available or should not be used. Markets served by Warren Rupp products include chemical, paint, food processing, electronics, construction, utilities,
mining and industrial maintenance. CFP maintains operations in Kampen, Germany (Richter products), Cedar Falls, Iowa (Richter and Viking products), Eastbourne, East Sussex, England, Shannon, Ireland (Viking products) and Mansfield, Ohio (Warren Rupp
products). CFP primarily uses independent distributors to market and sell its products. Approximately 55% of CFP’s 2011 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Water & Waste Water.

HEALTH & SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT

The Health &
Science Technologies Segment designs, produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics, rotary lobe pumps, centrifugal and positive displacement pumps, roll compaction and drying systems used in beverage, food processing, pharmaceutical
and cosmetics, pneumatic components and sealing solutions, including very high precision, low-flow rate pumping solutions required in analytical instrumentation, clinical diagnostics and drug discovery, high performance molded and extruded,
biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air compressors used in medical, dental and industrial applications, optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, defense, aerospace, telecommunications and
electronics manufacturing, laboratory and commercial equipment used in the production of micro and nano scale







materials, precision photonic solutions used in life sciences, research and defense markets, and precision gear and peristaltic pump technologies that meet exacting original equipment
manufacturer specifications. The segment accounted for 34% of IDEX’s sales and 31% of operating income in 2011, with approximately 53% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.

IDEX Health & Science.

IDEX Optics and Photonics.

Precision Polymer Engineering.PPE, which was acquired in April 2010 and is located in Blackburn, England,
is a provider of proprietary high performance seals and advanced sealing solutions for a diverse range







of global industries and applications, including hazardous duty, analytical instrumentation, semiconductor/solar, process technologies, pharmaceutical, electronics, and food applications.
Approximately 82% of PPE’s 2011 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Gast.Gast
consists of the Company’s Gast and Jun-Air businesses. The Gast business is a leading manufacturer of air-moving products, including air motors, low-range and medium-range vacuum pumps, vacuum generators, regenerative blowers and fractional
horsepower compressors. Gast products are used in a variety of long-life applications requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure. Markets served by Gast products include medical equipment, environmental equipment,
computers & electronics, printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery, graphic arts, and industrial manufacturing. The Jun-Air business is a provider of low-decibel, ultra-quiet vacuum compressors suitable for medical,
dental and laboratory applications. Based in Benton Harbor, Michigan, Gast also has a manufacturing site in Redditch, England. Approximately 33% of Gast’s 2011 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Micropump.Micropump consists of the Company’s Micropump and Trebor businesses. Micropump,
headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, is a leader in small, precision-engineered, magnetically and electromagnetically driven rotary gear, piston and centrifugal pumps. Micropump products are used in low-flow abrasive and corrosive applications.
Markets served by Micropump products include printing machinery, medical equipment, paints & inks, chemical processing, pharmaceutical, refining, laboratory, electronics, pulp & paper, water treatment, textiles, peristaltic
metering pumps, analytical process controllers and sample preparation systems. Located in Salt Lake City, Utah, the Trebor business is a leader in high-purity fluid handling products, including air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized
water-heating systems. Trebor products are used in manufacturing of semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays. Approximately 71% of Micropump’s 2011 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Materials Process Technologies:MPT consists of the Quadro, Fitzpatrick and
Microfluidics businesses. Quadro is a leading provider of particle control solutions for the pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical markets. Based in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, Quadro’s core capabilities include fine milling, emulsification and
special handling of liquid and solid particulates for laboratory, pilot phase and production scale processing within the pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical markets. Fitzpatrick is a global leader in the design and manufacture of process
technologies for the pharmaceutical, food and personal care markets. Fitzpatrick designs and manufactures customized size reduction, roll compaction and drying systems to support their customers’ product development and manufacturing processes.
Fitzpatrick is headquartered in Elmhurst, Illinois. Microfluidics is a global leader in the design and manufacture of laboratory and commercial equipment used in the production of micro and nano scale materials for the pharmaceutical and chemical
markets. Microfluidics is the exclusive producer of the Microfluidizer®family of high shear fluid processors
for uniform particle size reduction, robust cell disruption and nanoparticle creation. Microfluidics is headquartered in Newton, Massachusetts. Approximately 53% of MPT’s 2011 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

DISPENSING EQUIPMENT SEGMENT

The Dispensing Equipment Segment produces precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the
world. Dispensing Equipment is a global supplier of precision-designed tinting, mixing, dispensing and measuring equipment for auto refinishing and architectural paints. Dispensing Equipment products are used in retail and commercial stores,
hardware stores, home centers, department stores, automotive body shops as well as point-of-purchase dispensers. Dispensing Equipment is headquartered in Wheeling, Illinois with additional facilities in Sassenheim, The Netherlands, Unanderra,
Australia, Gennevilliers, France, Milan, Italy, Barcelona, Spain, and Scarborough, Ontario, Canada. The segment accounted for 6% of IDEX’s sales and 4% of IDEX’s operating income in 2011, with approximately 77% of its sales to customers
outside the U.S.







FIRE & SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT

The Fire & Safety/Diversified Products Segment produces firefighting pumps and controls, rescue tools, lifting bags and other
components and systems for the fire and rescue industry, and engineered stainless steel banding and clamping devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial applications. The segment accounted for 16% of IDEX’s sales and 20% of
IDEX’s operating income in 2011, with approximately 57% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.

Fire
Suppression.Fire Suppression consists of the Class 1, Hale and Godiva businesses, which produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless steel valves, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules and
pump kits, electronic controls and information systems, conventional and networked electrical systems, and mechanical components for the fire, rescue and specialty vehicle markets. Fire Suppression’s customers are primarily OEMs. Fire
Suppression is headquartered in Ocala, Florida (Class 1 products), with additional facilities located in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania (Hale products) and Warwick, England (Godiva products). Approximately 41% of Fire Suppression’s 2011 sales
were to customers outside the U.S.

Rescue Tools.Rescue Tools consists of the Company’s
Dinglee, Hurst, Lukas and Vetter businesses, which produce hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic lifting and sealing
bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue, environmental protection and disaster control, and shoring equipment for vehicular or structural collapse. Markets served by Rescue Tools products include public and private fire and rescue organizations. Rescue
Tools has facilities in Shelby, North Carolina (Hurst products), Tianjin, China (Dinglee products), Erlangen, Germany (Lukas products), and Zulpich, Germany (Vetter products). Approximately 78% of Rescue Tools’s 2011 sales were to customers
outside the U.S.

Band-It.Band-It is a leading producer of high-quality
stainless steel banding, buckles and clamping systems. The BAND-IT®brand is highly recognized worldwide.
Band-It products are used for securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, industrial hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable shielding, identification and bundling, and numerous other industrial and commercial applications.
Markets for Band-It products include automotive, transportation equipment, oil & gas, general industrial maintenance, electronics, electrical, communications, aerospace, utility, municipal and subsea marine. Band-It is based in Denver,
Colorado, with additional operations in Staveley, Derbyshire, England, and Singapore. Approximately 42% of Band-It’s 2011 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

GENERAL ASPECTS APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Competitors

The Company’s businesses participate in highly competitive markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities, product
development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery, and effectiveness of our distribution channels.

Principal competitors of the Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment are the Pump Solutions Group (Blackmer and Wilden products) of Dover Corporation (with respect to pumps and small horsepower
compressors used in liquified petroleum gas distribution facilities, rotary gear pumps, and air-operated double-diaphragm pumps); the Milton Roy unit of United Technologies Corporation (with respect to metering pumps and controls); and Tuthill
Corporation (with respect to rotary gear pumps).

Principal competitors of the Health & Science Technologies Segment
are the Thomas division of Gardner Denver, Inc. (with respect to vacuum pumps and compressors); Thermo Scientific Dionex products (with respect to analytical instrumentation); Parker Hannifin (with respect to sealing devices); and Valco Instruments
Co., Inc. (with respect to fluid injectors and valves).







The principal competitor of the Dispensing Equipment Segment is CPS Color Group Oy, which is
owned by Nordic Capital (with respect to dispensing and mixing equipment for the paint industry).

The principal competitors
of the Fire & Safety/Diversified Products Segment are Waterous Company, a unit of American Cast Iron Pipe Company (with respect to truck-mounted firefighting pumps), Holmatro, Inc. (with respect to rescue tools), and Panduit Corporation
(with respect to stainless steel bands, buckles and tools).

Employees

At December 31, 2011, the Company had 6,814 employees. Approximately 8% were represented by labor unions with various contracts
expiring through June 2015. Management believes that the Company’s relationship with its employees is good. The Company historically has been able to satisfactorily renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements, with its last work stoppage
in March 1993.

Suppliers

The Company manufactures many of the parts and components used in its products. Substantially all materials, parts and components purchased by the Company are available from multiple sources.

Inventory and Backlog

The Company regularly and systematically adjusts production schedules and quantities based on the flow of incoming orders. Backlogs typically are limited to one to one and a half months of production.
While total inventory levels also may be affected by changes in orders, the Company generally tries to maintain relatively stable inventory levels based on its assessment of the requirements of the various industries served.

Raw Materials

The Company uses a wide variety of raw materials which are generally available from a number of sources. As a result, shortages from any single supplier have not had, and are not likely to have a material
impact on operations.

Shared Services

The Company has two production facilities in Suzhou, China, that support multiple business units. IDEX also has personnel in China, India and Singapore that provide sales and marketing, product design and
engineering, and sourcing support to its business units, as well as personnel in various locations in Europe, South America, the Middle East and Japan to support sales and marketing efforts of IDEX businesses in those regions.

Segment Information

For segment financial information for the years 2011, 2010, and 2009, see the table titled “Company and Business Segment Financial Information” presented in Part II. Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II. Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.”







Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names of the executive officers of the Company, their ages, years of service, the positions held by
them, and their business experience during the past 5 years.



NameAgeYears ofServicePositionAndrew K. Silvernail403Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerHeath A. Mitts416Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerFrank J. Notaro4814Vice President-General Counsel and SecretaryDaniel J. Salliotte457Vice President-Mergers, Acquisitions and TreasuryMichael J. Yates466Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

Mr. Silvernail has served as Chief Executive Officer since August 2011, and as Chairman of the Board
since January 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Silvernail was Vice President-Group Executive Health & Science Technologies, Global Dispensing and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products since January 2011. From February 2010 to December
2010, Mr. Silvernail was Vice President-Group Executive Health & Sciences Technologies and Global Dispensing. Mr. Silvernail joined IDEX in January 2009 as Vice President-Group Executive Health & Science Technologies.
Prior to joining IDEX, Mr. Silvernail served as Group President at Rexnord Industries from April 2005 to August 2008.

Mr. Mitts has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since March 2011. Mr. Mitts was hired as Vice
President-Corporate Finance in September 2005.

Mr. Notaro has served as Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary
since March 1998.

Mr. Salliotte has served as Vice President-Mergers, Acquisitions and Treasury since February 2011.
Mr. Salliotte joined IDEX in October 2004 as Vice President-Strategy and Business Development.

Mr. Yates has served
as Vice-President and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2010. Mr. Yates was hired as Vice President-Controller in October 2005.

The Company’s executive officers are elected at a meeting of the Board of Directors immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders, and they serve until the next annual meeting of the
Board, or until their successors are duly elected and qualified or their death, resignation or removal.

Public Filings

Copies of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are made available free of charge at www.idexcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after being filed electronically with the SEC. Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s
website, www.sec.gov. The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.







