Item 1.Business.

IDEX Corporation (“IDEX,” the “Company,” “us,” “our,” or “we”) is a Delaware corporation incorporated on September 24, 1987. The Company is an applied solutions business that sells an extensive array of pumps, flow meters and other fluidics systems and components and engineered products to customers in a variety of markets around the world. All of the Company’s business activities are carried out through wholly-owned subsidiaries.

The Company has three reportable business segments: Fluid & Metering Technologies (“FMT”), Health & Science Technologies (“HST”) and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products (“FSDP”). Within our three reportable segments, the Company maintains fifteen platforms, where we focus on organic growth and strategic acquisitions. Each of our fifteen platforms is also a reporting unit, where we annually test for goodwill impairment.

During the third quarter of 2015, the Company announced the appointment of Eric Ashleman as Chief Operating Officer.  While there were no changes to the reportable segments or movement of businesses between the reportable segments, the Company no longer delineates between “platforms” and “groups” and made the following changes to how certain businesses are managed internally:

•Created the Valves platform as a result of the Alfa Valvole acquisition in June 2015.

•Eliminated the Diaphragm and Dosing Pump Technology (“DDPT”) platform.

•Created the Industrial platform from the businesses previously reported within Chemical, Food & Process (Richter, Viking, and Aegis) plus the Warren Rupp and Trebor businesses from DDPT.

•Created the Water platform from the businesses previously reported within Water Services & Technology (ADS, IETG, and iPEK) plus the Pulsafeeder and Knight businesses from DDPT.



The Fluid & Metering Technologies segment contains the Energy (comprised of Corken, Faure Herman, Liquid Controls, SAMPI and Toptech), Valves (comprised of Alfa Valvole), Water (comprised of Pulsafeeder, Knight, ADS, IETG, and iPEK), Industrial (comprised of Richter, Viking, Aegis, Warren Rupp, and Trebor), and Agriculture (comprised of Banjo) platforms. The Health & Science Technologies segment contains the Scientific Fluidics (comprised of Eastern Plastics, Rheodyne, Sapphire Engineering, Upchurch Scientific, ERC, and CiDRA Precision Services), IDEX Optics & Photonics (comprised of CVI Melles Griot, Semrock, and AT Films), Sealing Solutions (comprised of Precision Polymer Engineering,  FTL Seals Technology, and Novotema), Gast, Micropump, and Material Processing Technologies (comprised of Quadro, Fitzpatrick, Microfluidics, and Matcon) platforms. The Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment is comprised of the Fire Suppression (comprised of Class 1, Hale and Godiva), Rescue (comprised of Dinglee, Hurst Jaws of Life, Lukas, and Vetter), Band-It, and Dispensing platforms.

IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in its product and service areas. The Company also believes that its strong financial performance has been attributable to its ability to design and engineer specialized quality products, coupled with its ability to identify and successfully consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions.









FLUID & METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT

The Fluid & Metering Technologies segment designs, produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, flow meters, injectors, and other fluid-handling pump modules and systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for the food, chemical, general industrial, water & wastewater, agriculture and energy industries. Fluid & Metering Technologies application-specific pump and metering solutions serve a diverse range of end markets, including industrial infrastructure (fossil fuels, refined & alternative fuels, and water & wastewater), chemical processing, agriculture, food & beverage, pulp and paper, transportation, plastics and resins, electronics and electrical, construction & mining, pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical, machinery and numerous other specialty niche markets. Fluid & Metering Technologies accounted for43%, 42% and 43% of IDEX’s sales in2015,2014and2013, respectively, with approximately44%of its2015sales to customers outside the U.S. The segment accounted for43%, 43% and 47% of IDEX’s operating income in2015,2014and2013, respectively.

Energy.

Energy consists of the Company’s Corken, Faure Herman, Liquid Controls, SAMPI and Toptech businesses. Energy is a leading supplier of flow meters, electronic registration and control products, rotary vane and turbine pumps, reciprocating piston compressors, and terminal automation control systems. Headquartered in Lake Bluff, Illinois (Liquid Controls products), Energy has additional facilities in Longwood, Florida and Zwijndrecht, Belgium (Toptech products); Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (Corken products); La Ferté Bernard, France (Faure Herman products); and Altopascio, Italy (SAMPI products). Applications for Liquid Controls and SAMPI positive displacement flow meters, electronic, registration and control products include mobile and stationary metering installations for wholesale and retail distribution of petroleum and liquefied petroleum gas, aviation refueling, and industrial metering and dispensing of liquids and gases. Corken products consist of positive-displacement rotary vane pumps, single and multistage regenerative turbine pumps, and small horsepower reciprocating piston compressors. Toptech supplies terminal automation hardware and software to control and manage inventories, as well as transactional data and invoicing, to customers in the oil, gas and refined-fuels markets. Faure Herman is a leading supplier of ultrasonic and helical turbine flow meters used in the custody transfer and control of high value fluids and gases. Approximately

44%

of Energy’s


sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Valves.Valves consists of the Company’s Alfa Valvole (“Alfa”) business. Alfa is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty valve products for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, energy and sanitary markets. Located in Casorezzo, Italy, Alfa’s products are used in various industrial fields for fluid control, in both gas and liquid form, in all sectors of plant engineering, cosmetics, detergents, food industry, electric energy, pharmaceutical, chemical plants, petrochemical plants, oil, heating/air conditioning and in all markets worldwide and also on ships, ferries and marine oil platforms.100%of Alfa’s2015sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Water.

40%

of Water’s


sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Industrial.Industrial consists of the Company’s Richter, Viking, Aegis, Warren Rupp, and Trebor businesses. Industrial is a producer of fluoroplastic lined corrosion-resistant magnetic drive and mechanical seal pumps, shut-off, control and safety valves for corrosive, hazardous, contaminated, pure and high-purity fluids, as well as rotary internal gear, external gear, vane and rotary lobe pumps, custom-engineered OEM pumps, strainers, gear reducers and engineered pump systems. Richter’s products offer superior solutions for demanding and complex pump applications in the process industry. Viking’s products consist of external gear pumps, strainers and reducers, and related controls used for transferring and metering thin and viscous liquids sold under the Viking and Wright Flow brands. Viking products primarily serve the chemical, petroleum, pulp & paper, plastics, paints, inks, tanker trucks, compressor, construction, food & beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and biotech









markets. Aegis is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty chemical processing valves for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, chlor-alkali, pharmaceutical, semiconductor and pulp & paper industries. Warren Rupp products (which also include Pumper Parts and Versa-Matic products) are used for abrasive and semisolid materials as well as for applications where product degradation is a concern or where electricity is not available or should not be used. Warren Rupp products, which include air-operated diaphragm pumps, primarily serve the chemical, paint, food processing, electronics, construction, utilities, oil & gas, mining and industrial maintenance markets. Trebor is a leader in high-purity fluid handling products, including air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized water-heating systems. Trebor products are used in manufacturing of semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays. Industrial maintains operations in Kempen, Germany and Suzhou, China (Richter products); Cedar Falls, Iowa (Viking, Wright Flow, and Richter products); Eastbourne, England (Wright Flow products); and Shannon, Ireland (Viking and Blagdon products); Geismar, Louisiana (Aegis products); Mansfield, Ohio (Warren Rupp products); Salt Lake City, Utah (Trebor products). Industrial primarily uses independent distributors to market and sell its products. Approximately51%of Industrial’s2015sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Agriculture.Agriculture consists of the Company’s Banjo business. Banjo is a provider of special purpose, severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid handling. Banjo is based in Crawfordsville, Indiana with a facility in Didam, The Netherlands, and its products are used in agriculture and industrial applications. Approximately15%of Banjo’s2015sales were to customers outside the U.S.

HEALTH & SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT

The Health & Science Technologies segment designs, produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics, rotary lobe pumps, centrifugal and positive displacement pumps, roll compaction and drying systems used in beverage, food processing, pharmaceutical and cosmetics, pneumatic components and sealing solutions, including very high precision, low-flow rate pumping solutions required in analytical instrumentation, clinical diagnostics and drug discovery, high performance molded and extruded, biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air compressors used in medical, dental and industrial applications, optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, defense, biotechnology, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing, laboratory and commercial equipment used in the production of micro and nano scale materials, precision photonic solutions used in life sciences, research and defense markets, and precision gear and peristaltic pump technologies that meet exacting original equipment manufacturer specifications. Health & Science Technologies accounted for36%, 35% and 35% of IDEX’s sales in2015,2014and2013, respectively, with approximately55%of its2015sales to customers outside the U.S. The segment accounted for33%, 31% and 30% of IDEX’s operating income in2015,2014and2013, respectively.

Scientific Fluidics.

55%

of Scientific Fluidics’


sales were to customers outside the U.S.

IDEX Optics and Photonics (“IOP”).IOP consists of the Company’s CVI Melles Griot (“CVI MG”), Semrock, and AT Films (including Precision Photonics products) businesses. CVI MG is a global leader in the design and manufacture of precision photonic solutions used in the life sciences, research, semiconductor, security and defense markets. CVI MG’s innovative products are focused on the generation, control and productive use of light for a variety of key science and industrial applications. Products consist of specialty lasers and light sources, electro-optical components, specialty shutters, opto-mechanical assemblies and components. In addition, CVI MG produces critical components for life science research, electronics manufacturing, military and other industrial applications including lenses, mirrors, filters and polarizers. These









components are utilized in a number of important applications such as spectroscopy, cytometry (cell counting), guidance systems for target designation, remote sensing, menology and optical lithography. CVI MG has manufacturing sites located in Albuquerque, New Mexico; Carlsbad, California; Rochester, New York; Leicester, England; Kyongki-Do, Korea; Tamagawa, Japan; and Didam, The Netherlands. Semrock is a provider of optical filters for biotech and analytical instrumentation in the life sciences markets. Semrock’s optical filters are produced using state-of-the-art manufacturing processes which enable it to offer its customers significant improvements in instrument performance and reliability. Semrock is located in Rochester, New York. AT Films specializes in optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, defense, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing. AT Films’ core competence is the design and manufacture of filters, splitters, reflectors and mirrors with the precise physical properties required to support their customers’ most challenging and cutting-edge optical applications. The Precision Photonics portion of its business specializes in optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing. AT Films is headquartered in Boulder, Colorado. Approximately54%of IOP’s2015sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Sealing Solutions.Sealing Solutions consists of the Company’s Precision Polymer Engineering (“PPE”), FTL Seals Technology (“FTL”), and Novotema businesses. PPE is a provider of proprietary high performance seals and advanced sealing solutions for a diverse range of global industries and applications, including hazardous duty, analytical instrumentation, semiconductor, process technologies, oil & gas, pharmaceutical, electronics, and food applications.  PPE is headquartered in Blackburn, England with an additional manufacturing facility in Brenham, Texas.  FTL, located in Leeds, England, specializes in the design and application of high integrity rotary seals, specialty bearings, and other custom products for the mining, power generation, and marine markets. Novotema, located in Villongo, Italy, is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty sealing solutions for use in the building products, gas control, transportation, industrial and water markets. Approximately78%of Sealing Solutions’2015sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Gast.Gast consists of the Company’s Gast and Jun-Air businesses. The Gast business is a leading manufacturer of air-moving products, including air motors, low-range and medium-range vacuum pumps, vacuum generators, regenerative blowers and fractional horsepower compressors. Gast products are used in a variety of long-life applications requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure. Gast products primarily serve the medical equipment, environmental equipment, computers and electronics, printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery, graphic arts, and industrial manufacturing markets. The Jun-Air business is a provider of low-decibel, ultra-quiet vacuum compressors suitable for medical, dental and laboratory applications. Based in Benton Harbor, Michigan, Gast also has a logistics and commercial center in Redditch, England. Approximately26%of Gast’s2015sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Micropump.Micropump, headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, is a leader in small, precision-engineered, magnetically and electromagnetically driven rotary gear, piston and centrifugal pumps. Micropump products are used in low-flow abrasive and corrosive applications. Micropump products primarily serve the continuous ink-jet printing, medical equipment, chemical processing, pharmaceutical, refining, laboratory, electronics, textiles, peristaltic metering pumps, analytical process controllers and sample preparation systems markets. Approximately72%of Micropump’s2015sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Material Processing Technologies (“MPT”).

59%

of MPT’s


sales were to customers outside the U.S.









FIRE & SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT

The Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment produces firefighting pumps and controls, rescue tools, lifting bags and other components and systems for the fire and rescue industry, engineered stainless steel banding and clamping devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial applications, and precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. The Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment accounted for21%, 23% and 22% of IDEX’s sales in2015,2014and2013, respectively, with approximately52%of its2015sales to customers outside the U.S. The segment accounted for24%, 26% and 23% of IDEX’s operating income in2015,2014and2013, respectively.

Fire Suppression.Fire Suppression consists of the Company’s Class 1, Hale and Godiva businesses, which produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless steel valves, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules and pump kits, electronic controls and information systems, conventional and networked electrical systems, and mechanical components for the fire, rescue and specialty vehicle markets. Fire Suppression’s customers are primarily OEMs. Fire Suppression is headquartered in Ocala, Florida (Class 1 and Hale products), with additional facilities located in Warwick, England (Godiva products). Approximately38%of Fire Suppression’s2015sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Rescue.Rescue consists of the Company’s Dinglee, Hurst Jaws of Life, Lukas and Vetter businesses, which produce hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic lifting and sealing bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue, environmental protection and disaster control, and shoring equipment for vehicular or structural collapse. Rescue’s customers are primarily public and private fire and rescue organizations. Rescue has facilities in Shelby, North Carolina (Hurst Jaws of Life products); Tianjin, China (Dinglee products); Erlangen, Germany (Lukas products); and Zulpich, Germany (Vetter products). Approximately71%of Rescue’s2015sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Band-It.Band-It is a leading producer of high-quality stainless steel banding, buckles and clamping systems. The BAND-IT brand is highly recognized worldwide. Band-It products are used for securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, industrial hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable shielding, identification and bundling, and in numerous other industrial and commercial applications. Band-It products primarily serve the automotive, transportation equipment, oil & gas, general industrial maintenance, electronics, electrical, communications, aerospace, utility, municipal and subsea marine markets. Band-It is based in Denver, Colorado, with additional operations in Staveley, England. Approximately36%of Band-It’s2015sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Dispensing.Dispensing produces precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. Dispensing is a global supplier of precision-designed tinting, mixing, dispensing and measuring equipment for auto refinishing and architectural paints. Dispensing products are used in retail and commercial stores, hardware stores, home centers, department stores, automotive body shops as well as point-of-purchase dispensers. Dispensing is headquartered in Sassenheim, The Netherlands with additional facilities in Wheeling, Illinois; Unanderra, Australia; and Milan, Italy, as well as IDEX shared manufacturing facilities in India and China. Approximately61%of Dispensing’s2015sales were to customers outside the U.S.

INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS IN GENERAL AND ITS SEGMENTS

Competitors

The Company’s businesses participate in highly competitive markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery, and effectiveness of our distribution channels.

Principal competitors of the Fluid & Metering Technologies segment are the Pump Solutions Group (Maag, Blackmer and Wilden products) of Dover Corporation (with respect to pumps and small horsepower compressors used in liquified petroleum gas distribution facilities, rotary gear pumps, and air-operated double-diaphragm pumps); Milton Roy LLC (with respect to metering pumps and controls); and Tuthill Corporation (with respect to rotary gear pumps).

Principal competitors of the Health & Science Technologies segment are the Thomas division of Gardner Denver, Inc. (with respect to vacuum pumps and compressors); Thermo Scientific Dionex products (with respect to analytical instrumentation); Parker Hannifin (with respect to sealing devices); Valco Instruments Co., Inc. (with respect to fluid injectors and valves); and Gooch & Housego PLC (with respect to electro-optic and precision photonics solutions used in the life sciences market).

The principal competitors of the Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment are Waterous Company, a unit of American Cast Iron Pipe Company (with respect to truck-mounted firefighting pumps); Holmatro, Inc. (with respect to rescue tools); CPS









Color Group Oy (with respect to dispensing and mixing equipment for the paint industry); and Panduit Corporation (with respect to stainless steel bands, buckles and clamping systems).

Customers

The principal customers for our products are discussed immediately above by product category in each segment. None of our customers in 2015 accounted for more than two percent of net sales.

Employees

AtDecember 31, 2015, the Company had6,801employees. Approximately 7% of employees were represented by labor unions, with various contracts expiring through June 2020. Management believes that the Company has a positive relationship with its employees. The Company historically has been able to renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements satisfactorily, with its last work stoppage in March 1993.

Suppliers

The Company manufactures many of the parts and components used in its products. Substantially all materials, parts and components purchased by the Company are available from multiple sources.

Inventory and Backlog

The Company regularly and systematically adjusts production schedules and quantities based on the flow of incoming orders. Backlogs typically are limited to one to one and a half months of production. While total inventory levels also may be affected by changes in orders, the Company generally tries to maintain relatively stable inventory levels based on its assessment of the requirements of the various industries served.

Raw Materials

The Company uses a wide variety of raw materials which are generally available from a number of sources. As a result, shortages from any single supplier have not had, and are not likely to have a material impact on operations.

Shared Services

The Company has production facilities in Suzhou, China and Vadodara, India that support multiple business units. IDEX also has personnel in China, India, Dubai, Latin America and Singapore that provide sales and marketing, product design and engineering, and sourcing support to its business units, as well as personnel in various locations in South America, the Middle East and Japan to support sales and marketing efforts of IDEX businesses in those regions.

Segment Information

For segment financial information for the years2015,2014and2013, including financial information about foreign and domestic sales and operations, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”









Executive Officers of the Registrant

Set forth below are the names of the executive officers of the Company, their ages, years of service, the positions held by them, and their business experience during the past five years.



NameAgeYears  ofServicePositionAndrew K. Silvernail457Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerHeath A. Mitts4510Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerEric D. Ashleman487Senior Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerDenise R. Cade53<1Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryDaniel J. Salliotte4911Senior Vice President-Corporate Strategy, Mergers and Acquisitions and TreasuryMichael J. Yates5010Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerJeffrey D. Bucklew454Senior Vice President-Chief Human Resources Officer

Mr. Silvernail has served as Chief Executive Officer since August 2011 and as Chairman of the Board since January 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Silvernail was Vice President-Group Executive Health & Science Technologies, Global Dispensing and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products from January 2011 to August 2011. From February 2010 to December 2010, Mr. Silvernail was Vice President-Group Executive Health & Sciences Technologies and Global Dispensing. Mr. Silvernail joined IDEX in January 2009 as Vice President-Group Executive Health & Science Technologies.

Mr. Mitts has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since March 2011. Mr. Mitts joined IDEX as Vice President-Corporate Finance in September 2005.

Mr. Ashleman has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since July 2015. Mr. Ashleman joined IDEX in 2008 as the President of Gast Manufacturing.

Ms. Cade has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since joining IDEX in October 2015. Prior to joining IDEX, Ms. Cade was Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer for SunCoke Energy, Inc. from March 2011 to October 2015 and held various roles at PPG Industries before joining SunCoke.

Mr. Salliotte has served as Senior Vice President-Mergers, Acquisitions and Treasury since February 2011. Mr. Salliotte joined IDEX in October 2004 as Vice President-Strategy and Business Development.

Mr. Yates has served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2010. Mr. Yates joined IDEX as Vice President-Controller in October 2005.

Mr. Bucklew has served as the Senior Vice President-Chief Human Resources Officer since joining IDEX in March 2012. Prior to joining IDEX, Mr. Bucklew served as the Vice President of Human Resources for Accretive Health from March 2009 to March 2012.

The Company’s executive officers are elected at a meeting of the Board of Directors immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders, and they serve until the meeting of the Board immediately following the next annual meeting of stockholders, or until their successors are duly elected and qualified or until their death, resignation or removal.

Public Filings

Copies of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are made available free of charge at www.idexcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after being filed electronically with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.











