ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL

The Company, founded in 1846, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of household, personal care and specialty products.  The Company sells its consumer products under a variety of brands through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, drugstores, convenience stores, home stores, dollar, pet and other specialty stores and websites, all of which sell the products to consumers.  The Company also sells specialty products to industrial customers and distributors.

The Company focuses its consumer products marketing efforts principally on its ten “power brands.”  These well-recognized brand names include ARM & HAMMER, used in multiple product categories such as baking soda, cat litter, carpet deodorization and laundry detergent; TROJAN condoms, lubricants and vibrators; OXICLEAN stain removers, cleaning solutions, laundry detergents, dishwashing detergent and bleach alternatives; SPINBRUSH battery-operated and manual toothbrushes; FIRST RESPONSE home pregnancy and ovulation test kits; NAIR depilatories; ORAJEL oral analgesic;  XTRA laundry detergent;  the combination of the L’IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSION brand names for the Company’s gummy dietary supplement business and BATISTE dry shampoo.  The Company considers four of these brands to be “mega brands”: ARM & HAMMER, OXICLEAN, TROJAN and L’IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSION, and is giving greatest focus to the growth of these brands.

The Company’s business is divided into three primary segments: Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and Specialty Products Division (“SPD”).  The Consumer Domestic segment includes the power brands noted previously as well as other household and personal care products such as SCRUB FREE, KABOOM and ORANGE GLO cleaning products, ARRID antiperspirant, CLOSE-UP and AIM toothpastes and SIMPLY SALINE nasal saline moisturizer.  The Consumer International segment primarily sells a variety of personal care products, some of which use the same brands as the Company’s domestic product lines, in international markets, including Canada, France, Australia, the United Kingdom, Mexico and Brazil.  The SPD segment is the largest United States (“U.S.”) producer of sodium bicarbonate, which it sells together with other specialty inorganic chemicals for a variety of industrial, institutional, medical and food applications.  This segment also sells a range of animal nutrition and specialty cleaning products.  In 2015, the Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and SPD segments represented approximately76%, 15% and 9%, respectively, of the Company’s net sales.

All domestic brand “rankings” contained in this Annual Report are based on dollar share rankings from ACNielsen AOC (All Outlets Combined) for the 52 weeks ended December 19, 2015.  Foreign brand “rankings” are derived from several sources.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

As noted above, the Company’s business is organized into three reportable segments: Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and SPD.  These segments are based on differences in the nature of products and organizational and ownership structures.  The businesses of these segments generally are not seasonal, although the Consumer Domestic and Consumer International segments are affected by sales of SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes (which typically are higher during the fall, in advance of the holiday season), sales of NAIR depilatories and waxes (which typically are higher in the spring and summer months), and sales of VITAFUSION and L’IL CRITTERS dietary supplements (which typically are slightly higher in the fourth quarter of each year, in advance of the cold and flu season and renewed commitments to health).  Information concerning each of the segments is set forth in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which is Item 7 of this Annual Report.

CONSUMER PRODUCTS

Consumer Domestic

Principal Products

The Company’s founders first marketed baking soda in 1846 for use in home baking.  Today, this product has a wide variety of uses in the home, including as a refrigerator and freezer deodorizer, scratch-free cleaner and deodorizer for kitchen surfaces and cooking appliances, bath additive, dentifrice, cat litter deodorizer and swimming pool pH stabilizer.  The Company specializes in baking soda-based products, as well as other products which use the same raw materials or technology or are sold in the same markets.  In addition, this segment includes other deodorizing and household cleaning products, as well as laundry and personal care products.  The following table sets forth the principal products of the Company’s Consumer Domestic segment.








Type of ProductKey Brand NamesHouseholdARM & HAMMER Baking SodaARM & HAMMER Carpet DeodorizersARM & HAMMER Cat Litter DeodorizerARM & HAMMER Clumping Cat Litters (including CLUMP & SEAL)ARM & HAMMER Powder, Liquid and Unit Dose Laundry DetergentsARM & HAMMER Super Washing SodaARM & HAMMER FRESH’N SOFT Fabric SoftenersCLEAN SHOWER Daily Shower CleanerFELINE PINE Cat LitterKABOOM Cleaning ProductsNICE’N FLUFFY Fabric SoftenersORANGE GLO Cleaning ProductsOXICLEAN Dishwashing Detergent and Dishwashing BoosterOXICLEAN Laundry and Cleaning SolutionsSCRUB FREE Bathroom CleanersXTRA Fabric SoftenersXTRA Powder and Liquid Laundry DetergentsPersonal CareAIM ToothpasteARM & HAMMER Deodorants and AntiperspirantsARM & HAMMER Toothpaste and Oral Rinses (including TRULY RADIANT)ARRID AntiperspirantsBATISTE Dry ShampooCLOSE-UP ToothpasteFIRST RESPONSE Home Pregnancy and Ovulation Test KitsL’IL CRITTERS Dietary SupplementsMENTADENT ToothpasteNAIR Depilatories, Lotions, Creams and WaxesORAJEL Oral AnalgesicsPEPSODENT ToothpasteREPHRESH Feminine Hygiene ProductREPLENS Feminine Hygiene ProductSIMPLY SALINE Nasal Saline MoisturizerSPINBRUSH Battery-operated ToothbrushesSPINBRUSH Manual ToothbrushesTOPPIK hair building fibersTROJAN Condoms, Lubricants and Vibrating ProductsVITAFUSION Dietary Supplements

Household Products

In 2015, household products constituted approximately 60% of the Company’s Domestic Consumer sales and approximately 45% of the Company’s total sales.

The ARM & HAMMER trademark was adopted in 1867.  ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda remains the number one leading brand of baking soda in terms of consumer recognition of the brand name and reputation for quality and value.  The deodorizing properties of baking soda have led to the development of several baking soda-based household products.  For example, the Company markets ARM & HAMMER FRIDGE FRESH, a refrigerator deodorizer equipped with a baking soda filter to help keep food tasting fresher, and ARM & HAMMER Carpet Deodorizer.

The Company’s laundry detergents constitute its largest consumer business, measured by net sales.  The Company markets its ARM & HAMMER brand laundry detergents in powder, liquid and unit dose forms as value products, priced at a discount from products identified by the Company as market leaders.  The Company markets its XTRA laundry detergent in liquid, powder and single dose forms at a slightly lower price than ARM & HAMMER brand laundry detergents.  The Company also markets XTRA LASTING SCENTSATIONS and XTRA FRESCO SCENTSATIONS, a line of highly fragranced and concentrated liquid laundry detergents, and OXICLEAN laundry detergent and stain fighting additives   OXICLEAN is the number one brand in the U.S. laundry stain fighting additive market.  The Company markets ARM & HAMMER PLUS OXICLEAN liquid and powder laundry detergents,






combining the benefits of these two powerful laundry detergent products,including,ARM & HAMMER PLUS OXICLEAN Ultra Power liquid detergent, an ultra-concentrated version of ARM & HAMMER PLUS OXICLEAN,andOXICLEAN PowerPaks.The Company also marketsOXICLEAN laundry detergent, a premium-priced line of liquid, powder and unit dose laundry detergentsandOXICLEAN dishwashing detergent.In 2015, the CompanyintroducedARM & HAMMER PLUS OXICLEAN OdorBlastersliquid laundry detergent, ARM & HAMMER CLEAN SCENTSATIONSa line oflaundry scent boostersinspired by U.S. National Parks, OXICLEAN WHITEREVIVElaundry detergent andliquidadditive, OXICLEAN versatile stain remover plus OdorBlastersand OXICLEAN washing machine cleaner.In 2016, the CompanyhaslaunchedARM & HAMMER BioEnzyme Power liquid andunitdose laundry detergent,OXICLEANPRESERVEliquidlaundry detergent, ARM & HAMMERTROPICAL PARADISEScent BoosterandOXICLEANMAX FORCEFoam laundry stain remover.

The Company’s laundry products also include fabric softener sheets that prevent static cling and soften and freshen clothes.  The Company markets ARM & HAMMER FRESH’N SOFT fabric softeners and offers a liquid fabric softener, NICE’N FLUFFY, at a slightly lower price enabling the Company to compete at several price points.

The Company also markets a line of cat litter products, including ARM & HAMMER CLUMP & SEAL clumping cat litter, ARM & HAMMER CLUMP & SEAL lightweight cat litter, ARM & HAMMER SUPER SCOOP clumping cat litter and ARM & HAMMER ULTRA LAST, a longer lasting clumping cat litter.  Other products include ARM & HAMMER Multi-Cat cat litter, designed for households with more than one cat, ARM & HAMMER ESSENTIALS clumping cat litter, a corn-based scoopable litter made for consumers who prefer to use products made with natural ingredients and ARM & HAMMER Double Duty cat litter, which eliminates both urine and feces odors on contact. The Company markets its FELINE PINE cat litter in the natural litter segment, complementing the Company’s ARM & HAMMER branded cat litter business and positioning the Company as a leading supplier of natural cat litter.  In 2015, the Company launchedARM & HAMMER CLUMP & SEAL Naturals cat litter.In 2016, the Company has launched ARM & HAMMER CLUMP & SEAL MICROGUARD, which seals and destroys immediate odors and prevents future bacterial odors.

In addition, the Company markets a line of household cleaning products including CLEAN SHOWER daily shower cleaner and SCRUB FREE bathroom cleaners.  The Company also markets KABOOM bathroom cleaners, ORANGE GLO household cleaning products, OXICLEAN Dishwashing Booster, which removes cloudy film and food particles on glasses and dishes and OXICLEAN automatic dishwasher dishwashing detergent.In 2016, the Company has launched KABOOM Plus Disinfex bathroom surface cleaner.

Personal Care Products

The Company’s personal care business was founded on the unique strengths of its ARM & HAMMER trademark and baking soda technology.  The Company has expanded its personal care business through its acquisition of antiperspirants, oral care products, depilatories, reproductive health products, oral analgesics, nasal saline moisturizers and dietary supplements under a variety of other leading brand names.  In 2015, Personal Care Products constituted approximately40% of the Company’s Consumer Domestic sales and approximately 31% of the Company’s total sales.

ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda, when used as a dentifrice, helps whiten and polish teeth, removes plaque and leaves the mouth feeling fresh and clean.  These properties led to the development of a complete line of sodium bicarbonate-baseddentifriceproducts that are marketed and sold nationally primarily under the ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE and ARM & HAMMER ADVANCE WHITE brand names, including a line of toothpaste for sensitive teeth under the ARM & HAMMER brand.

The Company also manufactures in the U.S. and markets in the U.S. (including Puerto Rico) and Canada CLOSE-UP, PEPSODENT and AIM toothpastes, which are priced at a discount from the market leaders, and the MENTADENT brand of toothpaste and toothbrushes.  In addition, the Company markets deodorant and antiperspirant products under the ARM & HAMMER and ARRID brand names.

Condoms are recognized as highly reliable contraceptives as well as an effective means of reducing the risk of sexually transmitted diseases.  The Company’s TROJAN condom brand is the number one condom brand in the U.S., and has been in use for 100 years.  The brand includes such products as ECSTASY, TROJAN EXTENDED PLEASURE, HER PLEASURE, BARESKIN, MAGNUM, TROJAN DOUBLE ECSTACY, TROJAN MAGNUM RIBBED and TROJAN Vibrations, a line of vibrating products.  The Company also markets a line of lubrication products under the TROJAN brand.In 2015, the Company introduced TROJAN STUDDED BARESKIN and MAGNUM BARESKIN condoms and TROJAN TONIGHT and TROJAN H2O lubricants.  In 2016, the Company has launched the TROJAN GROOVE condom, TROJAN DIVINE Massager, TROJAN 2-1 Vibrating Ring and TROJAN RIVIERA lubricant.






The Company markets SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes in the U.S. (including Puerto Rico), the United Kingdom, Canada, France, China and Australia.  In2015, the SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrush was the number one leading brand of battery-operated toothbrushes in the U.S.  The Company also markets SPINBRUSH PROCLEAN toothbrushes, a two-speed version of the product, SPINBRUSH PROCLEAN Recharge, a rechargeable toothbrush offering up to one week of power brushes between charges, SPINBRUSH PROCLEAN Sonic, a value high speed battery-operated toothbrush which competes with much more expensive “sonic” toothbrushes, and ARM & HAMMER TOOTH TUNES battery-operated toothbrushes, with proprietary technology that delivers music while brushing.  In 2015, the Company introduceda line of ARM & HAMMER SPINBRUSH manual toothbrushes with rotating headsas well as ARM & HAMMER TRULY RADIANT oral rinse.In 2016, the Companyhas launchedTRULY RADIANT Clean & Fresh, a complete line of oral care products that further extends theTRULY RADIANTsub-brand.

The Company markets home pregnancy and ovulation test kits.  Its FIRST RESPONSE brand of diagnostic kits is the number one selling brand in the U.S. and includes an enhanced FIRST RESPONSE pregnancy test kit that can tell a woman that she is pregnant up to six days before her expected period, with 99% accuracy from the day of her missed period.  In 2015, the Company launcheda new stick design for itsFIRST RESPONSEpregnancy test kit and anovulation test and confirmation kit.  In 2016, the Company has introduced FIRST RESPONSE Pregnancy Pro Digital Pregnancy Test & App Access, the first and only Bluetooth enabled pregnancy test that synchronizes with a smart phone and provides access to an application that provides wait time support and a personalized user experience, during the testing period, and throughout a woman’s pregnancy.

The Company’s NAIR hair-removal brand is the number one selling depilatory brand in the U.S., with innovative products that address consumer needs for quick, complete and longer-lasting hair removal.  The Company offers a full line of depilatory products for women and men under the NAIR brand name, including SHOWER POWER, SPRAYS AWAY, and the Moroccan Argan Oil line of depilatories and waxes.  In 2015, the Company introduced three new NAIR Moroccan Argan Oil hair-removal products, building on the success of the lines which were introduced in 2014.  In 2016, the Company has launched NAIR NOURISH SHOWER POWER,Sprays Awaydepilatories with Japanese Cherry Blossom and 100% Natural Rice Bran Oil and NAIR Wax Ready-strips for Face and Body, with no warming or rubbing required and results that last up to eight weeks.

The Company markets ORAJEL oral analgesics, which includes products for adults as well as babies, including ORAJEL Cooling Cucumber Teething Gel and BABY ORAJEL Tooth and Gum Cleanser.  The ORAJEL teething and toothache line of products is the number one brand in the U.S.  In 2015, the CompanyintroducedORAJEL alcohol free mouth sore rinse.  In 2016, the Company has launched a regimen of kid’s licensed oral care products under the popular My Little Pony, Paw Patrol and Spiderman licenses.

The Company markets and sells the L’IL CRITTERS children’s gummy dietary supplement line and the VITAFUSION adult gummy dietary supplement line, both number one leading brands in the gummy-form dietary supplement category.  The Company also markets and sells a line of probiotics under the ACCUFLORA brand name, a line of probiotics and gummy supplements under the NUTRITION NOW brand name and private label gummy dietary supplements.  In 2015, the Company introduced VITAFUSION Extra Strength line extensions,FIRST RESPONSE reproductive health dietary supplements and L’IL CRITTERS dietary supplement line of licensed characters (Barbie and Super Mario).  In 2016, the Company has launched L’IL CRITTERS Despicable Me dietary supplement, and the Company will launch a line of nutritional beauty-inspired supplements including VITAFUSION Gorgeous Hair, Skin & Nails, VITAFUSION Beauty Sleep and VITAFUSION Relaxed Mood.

The Company markets the SIMPLY SALINE brand of nasal saline moisturizers in the U.S., complementing the Company’s STERIMAR brand nasal saline solution business in Europe and other parts of the world.  The Company also markets BATISTE dry shampoo.

In 2014, the Company acquired the feminine care brands REPHRESH and REPLENS as part of the acquisition of the Lil’ Drug Store products.  In 2016, the Company will continue to update these brands with new claims, packaging and new products.

Consumer International

The Consumer International segment markets a variety of personal care products, household and over-the-counter products in international markets, including Canada, France, Australia, China, the United Kingdom, Mexico and Brazil.  Export sales from the U.S. are included in this segment.

Total Consumer International net sales represented approximately 15% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2015.  Net sales of the businesses located in Europe, Canada,Mexicoand Australia accounted for 37%, 33%, 11%and 10%, respectively, of the Company’s 2015 international net sales in this segment.  No other country in which the Company operates accounts for more than 10% of its total international net sales and no product line accounts for more than 15% of total international net sales.






Certain of the Company’s internationalproduct lines are similar to its domestic product lines and many are unique.For example, the Company markets its ARM & HAMMER and OXICLEAN laundry products and TROJAN condoms in Canada and Mexico, ARM & HAMMER cat litter in Canada, home pregnancy and ovulation test kits and oral care products in most of its international markets, waxes and depilatory products in virtually all international locations and L’IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSIONgummydietary supplements principally in Canada and Asia.

The Company also markets SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes internationally, primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada, France, China and Australia.  The Company sells STERIMAR nasal hygiene products in a number of markets in Europe, as well as in Mexico, parts of Asia and Australia and other international markets.  The Company also sells BATISTE dry shampoo principally in the United Kingdom, where it is the number one selling dry shampoo, Australia, Canada, France, Brazil, China and Mexico, as well as other markets including the United States.  The Company also markets the CURASH line of babycare products in Australia, and GRAVOL anti-nauseant and RUB-A535 topical analgesic in Canada and other international markets.

COMPETITION FOR CONSUMER DOMESTIC AND CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL

The Company competes in the household and personal care consumer product categories, which are highly innovative categories, characterized by a continuous flow of new products and line extensions, and require significant advertising and promotion.  The Company competes in these categories primarily on the basis of product innovation and performance, brand recognition, price, value and other consumer benefits.  Consumer products, particularly laundry and household cleaning products, as well as certain toothpaste products, are subject to significant price competition.  As a result, the Company from time to time may need to reduce the prices for some of its products to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share.

Internationally, the Company competes in similar competitive categories for most of its products.

The Company’s competitors include The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”), The Sun Products Corporation, The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Nestle Purina PetCare Company, Henkel AG & Co. KGaA (“Henkel”), Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Johnson & Johnson, Ansell Limited, Pfizer Inc., Bayer AG, Alere Inc., NBTY, Inc. and Pharmavite LLC.  Many of these companies have greater financial resources than the Company and have the capacity to outspend the Company if they attempt to gain market share.

Product introductions typically involve heavy marketing and trade spending in the year of launch, and the Company usually is not able to determine whether the new products and line extensions will be successful until a period of time has elapsed following the introduction of the new products or the extension of the product line.

Because of the competitive environment facing retailers, the Company faces pricing pressure from customers, particularly high-volume retailer store customers, who have increasingly sought to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms.  These concessions or terms could reduce the Company’s margins.  Furthermore, if the Company is unable to maintain price or trade terms acceptable to its customers, they could increase product purchases from competitors and reduce purchases from the Company, which would harm the Company’s sales and profitability.

DISTRIBUTION FOR CONSUMER DOMESTIC

Products in the Consumer Domestic segment are marketed throughout the U.S. primarily through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, drugstores, convenience stores, home stores, dollar, pet and other specialty stores, and websites, all of which sell the products to consumers.  The Company employs a sales force based regionally throughout the U.S. and utilizes the services of independent food brokers, who represent the Company’s products in the food, mass, pet, dollar and club, as well as numerous other classes of trade.  The Company’s products are stored in Company plants and third-party owned warehouses and are either delivered by independent trucking companies or picked up by customers at the Company’s facilities.

DISTRIBUTION FOR CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL

Products in the Consumer International segment are sold broadly across retail platforms that include supermarkets, wholesale clubs, pharmacies and drugstores, convenience stores, discount stores and websites, all of which sell the products to consumers.  The Company’s Consumer International distribution network is well-established and varies according to the needs of each market.  Subsidiary countries primarily utilize internal warehousing and distribution capabilities that enable direct shipment to key retailers.  Export markets primarily rely upon third party suppliers to market, warehouse and distribute products to end customers.






Specialty Products Division

Principal Products

The Company’s SPD segment focuses on sales to businesses and participates in three product areas: Animal Nutrition, Specialty Chemicals and Specialty Cleaners, and accounted for approximately 9% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2015.  The following table sets forth the principal products of the Company’s SPD segment.



Type of ProductKey Brand NamesAnimal NutritionARM & HAMMER Feed Grade Sodium BicarbonateBIO-CHLOR and FERMENTEN Rumen Fermentation EnhancersDCAD PLUS Feed Grade Potassium Carbonate(1)MEGALAC Rumen Bypass Fat(2)ESSENTIOM Omega 3 & Omega 6 Essential Fatty AcidsMEGAMINE-L, Rumen Bypass LysineSQ-810 Natural Sodium SesquicarbonateCELMANAXRefined Functional Carbohydrate(3)Specialty ChemicalsARM & HAMMER Performance Grade Sodium BicarbonateARMAND PRODUCTS COMPANY Potassium Carbonate and Potassium Bicarbonate(4)Enprove Ground Trona(5)Enprove Sodium Bicarbonate(5)Specialty CleanersARMAKLEEN Commercial & Professional Aqueous Cleaners(6)ARMEX Blast Media(6)Commercial & Professional Cleaners and Deodorizers

(1)Manufactured for the Company by Armand.

(2)MEGALAC is a registered trademark of Volac International Limited.

(3)Acquired as part of the VI-COR acquisition in January 2015.

(4)Manufactured and marketed by Armand Products Company (“Armand”), a joint venture in which the Company holds a 50% interest.

(5)Distributed and marketed by Natronx Technologies, LLC (“Natronx”), a joint venture in which the Company holds a one-third ownership interest.  Enprove is a registered trademark of Tronox Alkali Wyoming Corporation, a subsidiary of Tronox USA Holdings, Inc. (“Tronox”), successor in interest to, FMC Corporation (“FMC”), that has been assigned to Natronx with the right of reversion to Tronox Alkali Wyoming Corporation upon a Natronx dissolution.

(6)Distributed in North America by The ArmaKleen Company (“ArmaKleen”), a joint venture in which the Company holds a 50% ownership interest.

Animal Nutrition Products

The Company markets a special grade of sodium bicarbonate and sodium sesquicarbonate, to the animal feed market as a feed additive for use by the dairy industry as a buffer, or antacid, for dairy cattle.  The Company also markets DCAD PLUS feed grade potassium carbonate, which is manufactured by Armand as a feed additive into the animal feed market.

The Company markets MEGALAC rumen bypass fat, a nutritional supplement made from natural oils, which enables cows to maintain energy levels during the period of high milk production, resulting in improved milk yields and minimized weight loss.  The MEGALAC product and the trademark are licensed under a long-term license agreement from Volac International Limited, a British Company.

The Company also markets BIO-CHLOR and FERMENTEN, a range of specialty feed ingredients for dairy cows, which improve rumen feed efficiency and help increase milk production.

On January 2, 2015, the Company acquired certain assets of Varied Industries Corporation (the “VI-COR Acquisition”) a manufacturer and seller of feed ingredients for cows, beef cattle, poultry and other livestock, includingCELMANAX Refined Functional Carbohydrate and other feed additives for sale in domestic and international markets and used to promote livestock digestive health and performance.






Specialty Chemicals

The Company’s specialty chemicals business primarily encompasses the manufacture, marketing and sale of sodium bicarbonate in a range of grades and granulations for use in industrial markets.  In industrial markets, sodium bicarbonate is used by other manufacturing companies as a leavening agent for commercial baked goods, as an antacid in pharmaceuticals, as a carbon dioxide release agent in fire extinguishers, as an alkaline agent in swimming pool chemicals, and as a buffer in kidney dialysis.

The Company’s Brazilian subsidiary, Quimica Geral do Nordeste (“QGN”), markets sodium bicarbonate in Brazil and is South America’s leading provider of sodium bicarbonate.

The Company and Occidental Chemical Corporation are equal partners in a joint venture, Armand, which manufactures and markets potassium carbonate and potassium bicarbonate for sale in domestic and international markets.  The potassium-based products are used in a wide variety of applications, including agricultural products, specialty glass and ceramics, and potassium silicates. Armand also manufactures for the Company a potassium carbonate-based animal feed additive for sale in the dairy industry, described aboveunder “Animal Nutrition Products.”

The Company, Tronox and TATA Chemicals (Soda Ash) Partners are equal partners in Natronx.  Tronox acquired a one-third interest in Natronx from FMC in April, 2015.  Natronx engages in the marketing and distribution of sodium-based, dry sorbents for air pollution control in electric utility and industrial boiler operations.  The sorbents, primarily sodium bicarbonate and trona, are used by coal-fired utilities to remove harmful pollutants, such as acid gases, in flue-gas treatment processes.

Specialty Cleaners

The Company also provides a line of cleaning and deodorizing products for use in commercial and industrial applications such as office buildings, hotels, restaurants and other facilities.

The Company and Safety-Kleen Systems, Inc. (“Safety-Kleen”) are equal partners in a joint venture, ArmaKleen, which has built a specialty cleaning products business based on the Company’s technology and Safety-Kleen’s sales and distribution organization.  In North America, this joint venture distributes the Company’s proprietary product line of aqueous cleaners along with the Company’s ARMEX blast media line, which is designed for the removal of a wide variety of surface coatings.

COMPETITION FOR SPD

Competition within the specialty chemicals and animal nutrition product lines is intense.  The specialty chemicals business operates in a competitive environment influenced by capacity utilization, customers’ leverage and the impact of raw material and energy costs.  Product introductions typically involve introductory costs in the year of launch, and the Company usually is not able to determine whether new products and line extensions will be successful until a period of time has elapsed following the introduction of new products or the extension of the product lines.  The Company’s key competitors are Solvay Chemicals, Inc., Tronox and Natural Soda, Inc.

DISTRIBUTION FOR SPD

SPD markets sodium bicarbonate and other chemicals to industrial and agricultural customers primarily throughout the U.S. and Canada.  Distribution is accomplished through a dedicated sales force supplemented by manufacturers’ representatives and the sales personnel of independent distributors throughout the country.  The Company’s products in this segment are located in Company plants and public warehouses and are either delivered by independent trucking companies or picked up by customers at the Company’s facilities.

RAW MATERIALS AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

The Company manufactures sodium bicarbonate for both its consumer and specialty products businesses at its plants located at Green River, Wyoming and Old Fort, Ohio.  The primary source of soda ash, a basic raw material used by the Company in the production of sodium bicarbonate, is the mineral trona, which is found in abundance in southwestern Wyoming near the Company’s Green River plant.  The Company has adequate trona reserves under mineral leases to support the Company’s sodium bicarbonate requirements for the foreseeable future.






The Company is party to a partnership agreement with Tata Chemicals (Soda Ash) Partners, which mines and processes trona reserves in Wyoming.Through the partnership and related supply and services agreements, the Company fulfills a substantial amount of its soda ash requirements, enabling the Company to achieve some of the economies of an integrated business capable of producing sodium bicarbonate and related products from the basic raw material.The Company also has an agreement for the supply of soda ash from another company.The partnership agreement and other supply agreements between the Company and Tata Chemicals (Soda Ash) Partners are terminable upon two years notice by either company.The Company believes that sufficient alternative sources ofsoda ashsupply are available.

The Company believes that ample sources of raw materials are available for all of its other major products.  Detergent chemicals are used in a variety of the Company’s products and are available from a number of sources.  Bottles, paper products and clay are available from multiple suppliers, although the Company chooses to source most of these materials from single sources under long-term supply agreements in order to gain favorable pricing.  The Company also uses a palm oil fraction (by-product) in a number of products including, its rumen bypass fats products.  Alternative sources of supply are available in case of disruption or termination of the supply agreements.

The cost of raw materials, including surfactants, diesel fuel and oil based raw and packaging materials used primarily in the Company’s consumer businesses, were lower in 2015 relative to 2014, reducing the Company’s core commodity costs.  Increases in the prices of certain raw materials could materially impact the Company’s costs and financial results if the Company is unable to pass such costs along in the form of price increases to its customers.

The Company utilizes the services of third party contract manufacturers around the world for certain products.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

The Company’s trademarks appear in upper case letters throughout this Annual Report.  The majority of the Company’s trademarks are registered with either the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or with the trademark offices of many foreign countries. The ARM & HAMMER trademark has been used by the Company since 1867, and is a valuable asset and important to the successful operation of the Company’s business.  The Company’s products are sold under many other valuable trademarks held by the Company, including TROJAN, NAIR, ORAJEL, FIRST RESPONSE, XTRA, OXICLEAN, SPINBRUSH, BATISTE, SIMPLY SALINE, L’IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSION.  The Company’s portfolio of trademarks represents substantial goodwill in the businesses using the trademarks.

U.S. patents are currently granted for a term of 20 years from the date the patent application is filed.  Although the Company actively seeks and maintains a number of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole.

CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG

In each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates (“Wal-Mart”), were 24%, 25% and 24% respectively, of the Company’s total consolidated net sales.  No other customer accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales in the three-year period.  The time between receipt of orders and shipment is generally short, and as a result, backlog is not significant.

RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT

The Company conducts research and development activities primarily at its Princeton facility in New Jersey.  The Company devotes significant resources and attention to product development, process technology and basic research to develop differentiated products with new and distinctive features and to provide increased convenience and value to its customers.  To increase its innovative capabilities, the Company engages outside contractors for general research and development in activities beyond its core areas of expertise.  The Company spent $64.7 million, $ 59.8 million and $61.8 million on research and development activities in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

General

Some of the Company’s products are subject to regulation by one or more U.S. agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), the Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”) and foreign agencies.






FDA regulations govern a variety of matters relating to the Company’s products, such as product development, manufacturing, premarket clearance or approval, advertising anddistribution.The regulations adopted and standards imposed by the FDA and similar foreign agencies evolve over time and can require the Company to make changes in its manufacturing processes and quality systems to remain in compliance.These agencies periodically inspect manufacturing and other facilities.If the Company fails to comply with applicable regulations and standards, it may be subject to sanctions, including fines and penalties, the recall of products and cessation of manufacturing and/or distribution.

In addition, the Company sells products that are subject to regulation under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, both of which are administered by the EPA.  The Company also is subject to regulation by the FTC in connection with the content of its labeling, advertising, promotion, trade practices and other matters.

The CPSC administers the Poison Prevention Packaging Act, and has issued regulations requiring special child resistant packaging for certain products, including pharmaceuticals, dietary supplements, and dietary substances, containing certain ingredients (e.g., iron).

The Company’s relationship with certain union employees may be overseen by the National Labor Relations Board.  The Company’s activities also are regulated by various agencies of the countries, states, provinces and other localities in which the Company sells its products.

Medical Device Clearance and Approval

To be commercially distributed in the U.S., a medical device must, unless exempt, receive clearance or approval from the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”).  Lower risk devices are categorized as either class I or II devices.  For class II devices, the manufacturer must generally submit a premarket notification requesting clearance for commercial distribution known as a “510(k)” clearance.  The Company’s condoms, lubricants, contact lens solution, wound wash and home pregnancy test kits are regulated as class II devices.  Some low risk devices, including SPINBRUSH and other battery powered toothbrushes, are in class I and are generally exempted from the 510(k) requirement.  To obtain 510(k) clearance, a device must be determined to be substantially equivalent in intended use and in safety and effectiveness to a benchmark device, or “predicate” that is already legally in commercial distribution.  Any modification to a 510(k) cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a change in its intended use, generally requires a new 510(k) clearance.  A manufacturer may determine that a new 510(k) clearance is not required, but if the FDA disagrees, it may retroactively require a 510(k) clearance and may require the manufacturer to cease marketing or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance is obtained.

Medical Device Postmarket Regulation

After a medical device is commercialized, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including:

·the quality system regulation, which imposes FDA current Good Manufacturing Practice (“cGMP”) requirements governing the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, servicing, labeling, storage, installation, and distribution of all finished medical devices intended for human use;

·labeling regulations, including a prohibition on product promotion for unapproved or “off label” uses;

·the medical device reporting regulation requiring a manufacturer to report to the FDA if its device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and

·the reports of corrections and removals regulation, which requires a manufacturer to report recalls and field actions to the FDA if initiated to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may present a risk to health.

OTC Pharmaceutical

The Company markets over-the-counter (“OTC”) pharmaceutical products, such as toothpaste, antiperspirant, and oral analgesics products, that are also subject to FDA and foreign regulation.  Under the U.S. OTC monograph system, selected OTC pharmaceutical products are generally recognized as safe and effective and do not require the submission and approval of a new drug application.  The FDA OTC monographs include well-known ingredients and specify requirements for permitted indications, required warnings and precautions, allowable combinations of ingredients and dosage levels.  Pharmaceutical products marketed under the OTC monograph system must conform to specific quality, formula and labeling requirements.






All facilities where OTC pharmaceutical products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored or distributed must comply with cGMP regulations and/or regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries where the facilities are located.All of the Company’s pharmaceutical products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored and distributed according to cGMP regulations.The FDA performs periodic audits to ensure that the Company’s facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations.The failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to a breach of representations made to customers or to regulatory action against the Company related to the products made in that facility, such as seizure, injunction or recall.Serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against the Company that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of the Company’s products, product seizures, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, and could have a material adverse effecton the Company’s financial condition or operating results.The manufacturer, packer, or distributor of an OTC pharmaceutical product marketed in the U.S. whose name appears on the label of such product is required to report serious adverse events associated with the use of the product.

The Company cannot predict whether new legislation regulating the Company’s activities will be enacted or what effect any legislation would have on the Company’s business.

Food Products

The Company markets baking soda and animal feed products, such as rumen fermentation enhancers and Dietary Cation-Anion Difference (“DCAD”) balancers that are also subject to FDA and foreign regulation.  In 2011, the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) was enacted, changing the ways in which food and animal feed products are regulated.  Under the provisions of the FSMA, the emphasis shifted from compliant products to mandatory preventive controls including hazard analysis, risk controls, supplier qualifications and controls and increased record keeping.  FSMA grants the FDA the authority to require mandatory recalls for products under certain conditions.  The FDA is currently in the process of establishing rules and guidance to implement the provisions of FSMA.  The potential impact of these rules and applicable guidance cannot be determined at this time.

Dietary Supplements

The processing, formulation, safety, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution, importing, selling, and storing of dietary supplements are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the CPSC, the EPA, and by various agencies of the states and localities in which the Company’s products are sold.  The FDCA governs the composition, safety, labeling, manufacturing and marketing of dietary supplements.

Generally, dietary ingredients that were marketed in the U.S. prior to October 15, 1994 may be used in dietary supplements without notifying the FDA.  “New” dietary ingredients (i.e.dietary ingredients that were not marketed in the U.S. before October 15, 1994) must be the subject of a new dietary ingredient notification submitted to the FDA at least 75 days before the initial marketing unless the ingredient has been present in the food supply as an article used for food without being chemically altered.  A new dietary ingredient notification must provide evidence of a history of use or other evidence establishing that use of the dietary ingredient is reasonably expected to be safe.  The FDA may determine that a new dietary ingredient notification does not provide an adequate basis to conclude that a dietary ingredient is reasonably expected to be safe.  Such a determination could effectively prevent the marketing of the dietary ingredient.  On July 5, 2011, the FDA issued draft guidance governing notification of new dietary ingredients.  The draft guidance was issued for public comment and not for implementation.  To date the FDA has not taken any further steps towards implementing the guidance.  The guidance, if implemented, could effectively change the status of dietary ingredients that the industry has marketed as “old” dietary ingredients to “new” dietary ingredients that may require submission of a new dietary ingredient notification.

The FDCA permits “statements of nutritional support” to be included in labeling for dietary supplements without FDA pre-market approval.  The FDA must be notified of those statements within 30 days of marketing.  Among other things, the statements may describe the role of a dietary ingredient intended to affect the structure or function of the body or characterize the documented mechanism of action by which a dietary ingredient maintains such structure or function, but may not expressly or implicitly represent that a dietary supplement will diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat, or prevent a disease.  A company that uses a statement of nutritional support in labeling must possess information substantiating that the statement is truthful and not misleading.  If the FDA determines that a particular statement of nutritional support is an unacceptable drug claim or an unauthorized version of a health claim, or if the FDA determines that a particular claim is not adequately supported by existing scientific evidence or is otherwise false or misleading, the claim could not be used and any product bearing the claim could be subject to regulatory action.

The FDA’s cGMP regulations govern the manufacturing, packaging, labeling and holding operations of dietary supplement manufacturers.  As with OTC products, the FDA performs periodic audits to ensure that the Company’s dietary supplement facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations.  The failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to a breach of representation made to customers or to regulatory action against the Company related to the products made in that facility, seizure,






injunction or recall.There remains considerable uncertainty with respect to the FDA’s interpretation of the cGMP regulations and their actual implementation in manufacturing facilities.The failure of a manufacturing facility to comply with the cGMP regulations may render products manufactured in that facility adulterated, and subjects those products and the manufacturer to a variety of potential FDA enforcement actions.In addition, under recent amendments to the FDCA, the manufacturing of dietary ingredients contained in dietary supplements will be subject to similar or even more burdensome requirements, which may increase the costs of dietary ingredients and subject suppliers of such ingredients to more rigorous inspections and enforcement.The manufacturer, packer, or distributor of a dietary supplement marketed in the U.S. whose name appears on the label of the supplement is required to report serious adverse events associated with the use of that supplement totheFDA.

The FTC exercises jurisdiction over the advertising of dietary supplements.  The FTC considers whether a product’s advertising claims are accurate, truthful and not misleading pursuant to its authority under the Federal Trade Commission Act, or FTC Act.  The FTC has instituted numerous enforcement actions against dietary supplement companies for failure to adequately substantiate claims made in advertising or for the use of otherwise false or misleading advertising claims.  These enforcement actions have resulted in consent decrees and the payment of civil penalties and/or restitution by the companies involved.  Such actions can result in substantial financial penalties and significantly restrict the marketing of a dietary supplement.

Legislation may be introduced which, if passed, would impose substantial new regulatory requirements on dietary supplements.  The effect of additional domestic or international governmental legislation, regulations, or administrative orders, if and when promulgated, cannot be determined.  New legislation or regulations may require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, and require the recall or discontinuance of certain products not capable of reformulation.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company’s operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations relating to environmental concerns including air emissions, wastewater discharges, and solid and hazardous waste management activities.  The Company endeavors to take actions necessary to comply with such regulations.  These steps include periodic as well as health and safety concerns audits of Company facilities.  The audits, conducted by independent firms with expertise in environmental health and safety compliance, include site visits at each location, as well as a review of documentary information, to determine compliance with such federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations.

See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report for information regarding an environmental proceeding relating to the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary.

GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Approximately 83%, 81% and 80% of the Company’s net sales in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, were to customers in the U.S.  Approximately 96%, 96% and 97% of the Company’s long-lived assets were located in the U.S. at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  Other than the U.S., no one country accounts for more than 5% of consolidated net sales or 5% of total assets.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2015, the Company had approximately 4,400 employees.  The Company is party to a labor contract with the International Machinists Union at its Colonial Heights, Virginia plant, which expires May 31, 2018.  Internationally, the Company employs union employees in France, Mexico, Brazil and New Zealand.  The Company believes that its relations with both its union and non-union employees are satisfactory.



CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS

The Company’s operations, exclusive of unconsolidated entities, constitute three reportable segments: Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and SPD.  The table set forth below shows the percentage of the Company’s net sales contributed by each group of similar products marketed by the Company during 2015, 2014 and 2013.










% of Net Sales201520142013Consumer DomesticHousehold Products45%45%45%Personal Care Products31%30%30%Consumer International15%16%17%Specialty Products9%9%8%

PUBLIC INFORMATION

The Company maintains a website at www.churchdwight.com and on the “Investors—Financial Information—SEC Filings” page of reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files these materials with, or furnishes them to, the Commission.  Also available on the “Investors—Corporate Governance” page on the Company’s website are the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for the Audit, Compensation & Organization and Governance & Nominating Committees of the Board and the Company’s Code of Conduct.  Each of the foregoing is also available in print free of charge and may be obtained upon written request to: Church & Dwight Co., Inc., 500 Charles Ewing Boulevard, Ewing, New Jersey 08628, attention: Secretary.  The information presented on the Company’s website is not a part of this Annual Report and the reference to the Company’s website is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.






