ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL

All domestic brand “rankings” contained in this report are based on dollar share rankings from AC Nielsen Food, Drug, Mass (“FDM”) excluding Wal-Mart for the 52 weeks ending
December 24, 2011. Foreign brand “rankings” are derived from several sources.

2011 DEVELOPMENTS

New Manufacturing Facility

During the first quarter of 2011, the Company announced its decision to relocate a portion of its Green River, Wyoming operations to a newly leased site in Victorville, California in the first half of
2012. Specifically, the Company will be relocating its cat litter manufacturing operations and distribution center to this southern California site to be closer to transportation hubs and its West Coast customers. The site will also produce
liquid laundry detergent products and is expandable to meet business needs for the foreseeable future. The Company’s sodium bicarbonate operations and other consumer product manufacturing will remain at the Green River facility.

Two-for-one stock split

On June 1, 2011, the Company effected a two-for-one stock split of the Company’s Common Stock in the form of a 100% stock dividend. All applicable amounts in the consolidated financial
statements and related disclosures have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split.

BATISTE Acquisition

On June 28, 2011, the Company acquired the BATISTE dry shampoo brand from Vivalis, Limited (“BATISTE
Acquisition”) for cash consideration of $64.8 million. The Company paid for the acquisition from available cash. BATISTE annual sales are approximately $20.0 million. The BATISTE brand is managed principally within the Consumer International
segment.







New Corporate Office Building

On July 20, 2011, the Company entered into a 20 year lease for a new corporate headquarters building that will be constructed in
Ewing, New Jersey (approximately 10 miles from the Company’s existing corporate headquarters in Princeton, New Jersey) to meet office space needs for the foreseeable future. Based on current expectations that the facility will be completed and
occupied beginning in early 2013, the lease will expire in 2033. The Company’s lease commitment is approximately $116 million over the lease term. In conjunction with its lease of the new headquarters building, the Company will be vacating
three leased facilities adjacent to its current Princeton headquarters facility.

Share Repurchase Authorization

On August 4, 2011, the Company announced that the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million
of the Company’s Common Stock. Any purchases may be made from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, subject to market conditions, corporate and legal requirements and other factors. There is no
expiration date on the stock repurchase authorization, and the Company is not obligated to acquire any specific number of shares. The Company purchased 1.8 million shares at a cost of $80.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.

New Joint Venture

On September 22, 2011, the Company, together with FMC Corporation and TATA Chemicals, formed an operating joint venture, Natronx Technologies LLC (“Natronx”). The Company has a one-third
ownership interest in Natronx, and its investment is accounted for under the equity method. The joint venture will engage in the manufacturing and marketing of sodium-based, dry sorbents for air pollution control in electric utility and industrial
boiler operations. The sorbents, primarily sodium bicarbonate and trona, are used by coal-fired utilities to remove harmful pollutants, such as acid gases, in flue-gas treatment processes. Natronx intends to invest approximately $60 million to
construct a 450,000 ton per year facility in Wyoming to produce trona sorbents by the fourth quarter of 2012, the cost of which will be equally shared among all members. The joint venture started business in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the
Company made an initial investment of approximately $3 million and is committed to investing upwards of an additional $17 million in 2012.

Commercial Paper Notes







Information Systems Upgrade

The Company recently upgraded its U.S. and Canadian information systems and plans to do so for certain foreign subsidiaries currently
scheduled during 2012. The Company estimated a sales increase in the fourth quarter of approximately $9.0 million due to orders from customers in advance of the U.S. implementation.

Brazil’s Chemical Business

The Company is exploring strategic options for its chemical business in Brazil. The business, which has annual revenues of approximately $40 million, markets sodium bicarbonate, dairy products and other
chemicals in Brazil. The net assets associated with a portion of this business have been classified as “held for sale” for financial statement reporting purposes as of December 31, 2011.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

As noted above, the Company’s business is organized into three reportable segments, Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and Specialty Products (“SPD”). These segments are based on
differences in the nature of products and organizational and ownership structures. The businesses of these segments generally are not seasonal, although the Consumer Domestic and Consumer International segments are affected by sales of SPINBRUSH
battery-operated toothbrushes, which typically are higher during the fall, in advance of the holiday season, and sales of NAIR depilatories and waxes, which typically are higher in the spring and summer months. Information concerning the net sales,
operating income and identifiable assets of each of the segments is set forth in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations,” which is Item 7 of this report.

CONSUMER PRODUCTS

Consumer Domestic

Principal Products

The Company’s founders first marketed baking soda in 1846 for use in home baking. Today, this product has a wide variety of uses in
the home, including as a refrigerator and freezer deodorizer, scratch-free cleaner and deodorizer for kitchen surfaces and cooking appliances, bath additive, dentifrice, cat litter deodorizer and swimming pool pH stabilizer. The Company specializes
in baking soda-based products, as well as other products which use the same raw materials or technology or are sold in the same markets. In addition, this segment includes other deodorizing and household cleaning products, as well as laundry and
personal care products. The following table sets forth the principal products of the Company’s Consumer Domestic segment.



Type of ProductKey Brand NamesHouseholdARM & HAMMER Pure Baking SodaARM & HAMMER and XTRA Powder and Liquid Laundry DetergentsARM & HAMMER Carpet & Room
DeodorizersARM & HAMMER Cat Litter DeodorizerARM & HAMMER Clumping Cat LittersARM & HAMMER FRESH’N SOFT Fabric
SoftenersARM & HAMMER Total 2-in-1 Dryer ClothsARM & HAMMER Super Washing SodaSCRUB FREE Bathroom CleanersCLEAN SHOWER Daily Shower CleanerCAMEO Aluminum
& Stainless Steel CleanerSNO BOL Toilet Bowl CleanerXTRA and NICE’N FLUFFY Fabric SoftenersDELICARE Fine Fabric WashOXICLEAN Detergent and Cleaning SolutionKABOOM
Cleaning ProductsORANGE GLO Cleaning ProductsFELINE PINE Cat Litter







Type of ProductKey Brand NamesPersonal CareARM & HAMMER ToothpastesSPINBRUSH Battery-operated ToothbrushesMENTADENT Toothpaste, ToothbrushesAIM
ToothpastePEPSODENT ToothpasteCLOSE-UP ToothpasteRIGIDENT Denture
AdhesiveARM & HAMMER Deodorants & AntiperspirantsARRID AntiperspirantsLADY’S CHOICE AntiperspirantsTROJAN Condoms and Vibrating ProductsFIRST
RESPONSE Home Pregnancy and Ovulation Test KitsANSWER Home Pregnancy and Ovulation Test KitsNAIR Depilatories, Lotions, Creams and WaxesORAJEL Oral AnalgesicsSIMPLY SALINE Nasal
Saline MoisturizerCARTERS LITTLE PILLS Laxative

Household Products

In 2011, household products constituted approximately 65% of the Company’s Domestic Consumer sales and approximately 47% of the Company’s total sales.

The ARM & HAMMER trademark was adopted in 1867. ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda remains the leading brand of baking soda
in terms of consumer recognition of the brand name and reputation for quality and value. The deodorizing properties of baking soda have led to the development of several household products. For example, the Company markets ARM & HAMMER
FRIDGE FRESH, a refrigerator deodorizer equipped with a baking soda filter to keep food tasting fresher. In addition, ARM & HAMMER Carpet and Room Deodorizer is the number one brand in the domestic carpet and room deodorizer market.

The Company’s laundry detergents constitute its largest consumer business, measured by net sales. The Company markets
its ARM & HAMMER brand laundry detergents, in both powder and liquid forms, as value products, priced at a discount from products identified by the Company as market leaders. The Company markets its XTRA laundry detergent in both powder and
liquid at a slightly lower price than ARM & HAMMER brand laundry detergents. The Company also markets XTRA SCENTSATIONS, a highly fragranced and concentrated liquid laundry detergent, and OXICLEAN pre-wash laundry additive. OXICLEAN is the
number one brand in the laundry pre-wash additives market in the U.S. The Company markets ARM & HAMMER Power Gel Laundry Detergent and ARM & HAMMER plus OXICLEAN liquid and powder laundry detergents, combining the benefits of these
two powerful laundry detergent products. In 2011 the Company launched the only scented liquid detergent clinically tested safe for sensitive skin under the ARM & HAMMER name. The Company recently introduced ARM & HAMMER CRYSTAL
BURST power packs, a new convenient unit dose form of laundry detergent.

The Company’s laundry products also include
fabric softener sheets that prevent static cling and soften and freshen clothes. The Company markets ARM & HAMMER FRESH ‘N SOFT liquid fabric softener and offers another liquid fabric softener, NICE’N FLUFFY, at a slightly lower
price enabling the Company to compete at several price points. The Company markets ARM & HAMMER Total 2-in-1 Dryer Cloths, a fabric softener sheet used in the clothes dryer that delivers liquid-like softening, freshening and static control.

The Company also markets a line of cat litter products, including ARM & HAMMER Super Scoop clumping cat litter. Line
extensions of Super Scoop include ARM & HAMMER Multi-Cat cat litter, designed for households with more than one cat, ARM & HAMMER Odor Alert cat litter, with crystals that change color







when activated, ARM & HAMMER Essentials clumping cat litter, a corn-based scoopable litter made for consumers who prefer to use products made from natural ingredients, and ARM &
HAMMER Double Duty cat litter, which eliminates both urine and feces odors on contact. FELINE PINE cat litter, which was acquired in December 2010, continues to be the number one brand in the natural litter segment, which is the highest growth
segment in the litter category. This brand complements the Company’s existing cat litter business and positions the Company as the leading supplier of natural cat litter. In 2012, the Company will launch ARM & HAMMER Ultra Last, a
longer lasting clumping cat litter.

In addition, the Company markets a line of household cleaning products including CLEAN
SHOWER daily shower cleaner, SCRUB FREE bathroom cleaners and SNO BOL toilet bowl cleaner. The Company also markets KABOOM bathroom cleaner and ORANGE GLO household cleaning products. In 2012, the Company will launch OXICLEAN Dishwasher Booster,
which removes cloudy film and food particles on glasses and dishes.

Personal Care Products

The Company participates in the personal care business using the unique strengths of its ARM & HAMMER trademark and baking soda
technology, and has expanded its presence through its acquisition of antiperspirants, oral care products, depilatories, reproductive health products, oral analgesics and nasal saline moisturizers under a variety of other leading brand names. In
2011, Personal Care Products constituted approximately 35% of the Company’s Consumer Domestic sales and approximately 25% of the Company’s total sales.

ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda, when used as a dentifrice, whitens and polishes teeth, removes plaque and leaves the mouth feeling fresh and clean. These properties led to the development of a complete
line of sodium bicarbonate-based dentifrice products which are marketed and sold nationally primarily under the ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE brand name. In 2012, the Company plans to launch a line of toothpaste for sensitive teeth under the
combined ARM & HAMMER and ORAJEL names.

The Company also manufactures in the United States and markets in the United
States (including Puerto Rico) and Canada, CLOSE-UP, PEPSODENT and AIM toothpastes, which are priced at a discount from the market leaders, and the MENTADENT brand of toothpaste and toothbrushes.

The Company markets ORAJEL oral analgesics, which includes products for adults as well as Baby ORAJEL Cooling Cucumber Teething Gel and
Baby ORAJEL Tooth and Gum Cleanser.

The Company markets SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes in the United States
(including Puerto Rico), the United Kingdom, Canada, China and Australia. In 2011, the SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrush was the number one brand of battery-operated toothbrushes in the United States. The Company also markets SPINBRUSH
Pro-Select toothbrushes, a two speed version of the product, SPINBRUSH Pro-Recharge, a rechargeable toothbrush offering up to one week of power brushes between charges and SPINBRUSH Sonic, a reasonably priced high speed battery-operated toothbrush
which competes with much more expensive “sonic” toothbrushes. In 2012, the Company will launch ARM & HAMMER Tooth Tunes battery operated toothbrushes, a toothbrush with proprietary technology which delivers music while brushing.

The Company’s deodorant and antiperspirant products are marketed under the ARM & HAMMER, ARRID and LADY’S
CHOICE brand names.

Condoms are recognized as highly reliable contraceptives as well as an effective means of reducing the
risk of sexually transmitted diseases (“STDs”). The Company’s TROJAN condom brand has been in use for more than 90 years. In 2011, the brand continued its market and innovation leadership in the United States with the new ECSTASY
product line and continued success of such products as EXTENDED PLEASURE, HER PLEASURE, TWISTED PLEASURE, SHARED PLEASURE, MAGNUM WITH WARM SENSATIONS, a







unique lubricant system which warms the skin on contact for enhanced pleasure, TROJAN Ultra Thin condoms and TROJAN Fire and Ice Condoms. The Company also markets a series of vibrating products
under the TROJAN name. In 2012, the Company will launch TROJAN Vibrations Midnight Collection, a new line of vibrating products.

In 2011, the Company’s FIRST RESPONSE brand continued to be number one in the home pregnancy and ovulation test kit business category. The Company also markets ANSWER, which competes in the value
segment of the home pregnancy and ovulation test kit market. The Company also markets a home female fertility test under the FIRST RESPONSE brand name.

The Company’s NAIR depilatory brand is the number one depilatory brand in the United States, with innovative products that address consumer needs for quick, complete and longer-lasting hair removal.
The Company offers a full array of depilatory products for women, men and teens under the NAIR brand name. In 2011 and 2012, new NAIR variants were launched. These include Cool Gel, Roll-On Milk and Honey, and Brazilian Spa Clay products.

The Company markets the SIMPLY SALINE brand of nasal saline moisturizers, complementing the Company’s existing STERIMAR
brand nasal saline solution business in Europe and other parts of the world.

Consumer International

The Consumer International segment markets a variety of personal care products, household and over-the-counter products in international
markets, including Canada, France, Australia, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Brazil and China.

Total Consumer International net
sales represented approximately 19% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2011. Net sales of the subsidiaries located in Canada, France, the United Kingdom and Australia accounted for 36%, 17%, 17% and 12%, respectively, of the
Company’s 2011 international net sales in this segment. No other country in which the Company operates accounts for more than 10% of its total international net sales in this segment, and no product line accounts for more than 10% of total
international net sales.

Certain of the Company’s international product lines are similar to its domestic
product lines. The Company markets depilatories and waxes, home pregnancy and ovulation test kits and oral care products in most of its international markets. For example, the Company markets waxes and depilatory products in virtually all
international locations, and TROJAN condoms in Canada and Mexico.

The Company has expanded distribution of ARM &
HAMMER products internationally by marketing ARM & HAMMER laundry and pet care products in Canada and ARM & HAMMER laundry care products in Mexico. The Company also markets SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes, primarily in the
United Kingdom, Canada, France, China and Australia, and OXICLEAN, KABOOM and ORANGE GLO products primarily in Mexico and Canada.

The Company sells PEARL DROPS products in Europe, Canada and Australia, STERIMAR nasal hygiene products in a number of markets in Europe, Latin America, China and Australia, and BATISTE dry shampoo
principally in the United Kingdom.

COMPETITION FOR CONSUMER DOMESTIC AND CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL

The Company competes in the household and personal care consumer products categories using the strengths of its trademarks and
technologies. These are highly innovative categories, characterized by a continuous flow of new products and line extensions, and requiring significant advertising and promotion, in which we compete primarily on the basis of quality, innovation and
price. Consumer products, particularly those







that are valued-priced, such as laundry and household cleaning products, as well as certain toothpaste products, are subject to significant price competition. As a result, the Company from time
to time may need to reduce the prices for some of its products to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share.

Internationally, the Company’s products compete in similar competitive categories for most of its products.

Many of the Company’s competitors are large companies, including The Procter & Gamble Company, Sun Products Corporation, The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, S.C.
Johnson & Son, Inc., Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Johnson & Johnson, Ansell Limited, and Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than the Company
and have the capacity to outspend the Company if they attempt to gain market share.

Product introductions typically involve
heavy marketing costs in the year of launch, and the Company usually is not able to determine whether the new products and line extensions will be successful until a period of time has elapsed following the introduction of the new products or the
extension of the product line.

Because of the competitive environment facing retailers, the Company faces pricing pressure
from customers, particularly high-volume retail store customers, who have increasingly sought to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms. These concessions or terms could reduce the Company’s margins. Furthermore, if the Company is
unable to maintain price or trade terms acceptable to its trade customers, the customers could increase product purchases from competitors and reduce purchases from the Company, which would harm the Company’s sales and profitability.

DISTRIBUTION FOR CONSUMER DOMESTIC

Products in the Consumer Domestic segment are marketed throughout the United States primarily through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs,
drugstores, convenience stores, pet specialty stores and dollar stores. The Company employs a sales force based regionally throughout the United States, that utilizes the services of independent food brokers, who represent our products in the
Food, Pet, Dollar and Club classes of trade. The Company’s products are stored in Company plants and third-party owned warehouses and are either delivered by independent trucking companies or picked up by customers.

DISTRIBUTION FOR CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL

The Company’s Consumer International distribution network reflects capacity and cost considerations in the regions served. In Canada, Mexico and Australia, finished goods are warehoused internally
and shipped directly to customers through independent freight carriers. In the United Kingdom, domestic product distribution is subcontracted to professional distribution companies, while export product distribution is handled internally and shipped
from the Company’s warehouses. In France, distribution of consumer products to mass markets is handled internally while distribution of the Company’s over-the-counter products to pharmacies and professional diagnostics to laboratories is
handled by outside agencies. In Brazil and China, all product distribution is subcontracted to professional distribution companies.







Specialty Products (SPD)

Principal Products

The Company’s SPD segment focuses on sales to
businesses and participates in three product areas: Specialty Chemicals, Animal Nutrition and Specialty Cleaners. The following table sets forth the principal products of the Company’s SPD segment.



Type of ProductKey Brand NamesSpecialty ChemicalsARM & HAMMER Performance Grade Sodium BicarbonateARMAND PRODUCTS Potassium Carbonate and Potassium Bicarbonate(1)Animal NutritionARM & HAMMER Feed Grade Sodium BicarbonateMEGALAC Rumen Bypass FatSQ-810 Natural Sodium SesquicarbonateBIO-CHLOR and FERMENTEN Rumen Fermentation EnhancersDCAD Plus Feed Grade Potassium
Carbonate(2)MEGALAC R, Omega 3 & Omega 6 Essential Fatty AcidsMEGAMINE-L, Rumen Bypass LysineSpecialty CleanersCommercial & Professional Cleaners and DeodorizersARMAKLEEN Aqueous Cleaners(3)ARMEX Blast Media(3)



(1)Manufactured and marketed by Armand Products Company, an entity in which the Company holds a 50% joint venture interest.

(2)Manufactured for the Company by Armand Products Company.

(3)Distributed in North America by The ArmaKleen Company, an entity in which the Company holds a 50% joint venture interest.

Specialty Chemicals

The Company’s specialty chemicals business primarily encompasses the manufacture, marketing and sale of sodium bicarbonate in a range of grades and granulations for use in industrial markets. In
industrial markets, sodium bicarbonate is used by other manufacturing companies as a leavening agent for commercial baked goods, as an antacid in pharmaceuticals, as a carbon dioxide release agent in fire extinguishers, as an alkaline agent in
swimming pool chemicals, and as a buffer in kidney dialysis.

The Company’s 99.2% owned Brazilian subsidiary, Quimica
Geral do Nordeste (“QGN”), is South America’s leading provider of sodium bicarbonate. The business, which has annual revenues of approximately $40 million, markets sodium bicarbonate, dairy products and other chemicals in
Brazil.

The Company and Occidental Petroleum Corporation are equal partners in a joint venture, Armand Products Company, which
manufactures and markets potassium carbonate and potassium bicarbonate for sale in domestic and international markets. The potassium-based products are used in a wide variety of applications, including agricultural products, specialty glass and
ceramics, and potassium silicates. Armand Products also manufactures for the Company a potassium carbonate-based animal feed additive for sale in the dairy industry, described below under “Animal Nutrition Products.”

On September 22, 2011, the Company, together with FMC Corporation and TATA Chemicals, formed an operating joint venture, Natronx
Technologies LLC (“Natronx”). The Company has a one-third ownership interest in Natronx, and its investment is accounted for under the equity method. The joint venture will engage in the manufacturing and marketing of sodium-based, dry
sorbents for air pollution control in electric utility and industrial boiler operations. The sorbents, primarily sodium bicarbonate and trona, are used by coal-fired utilities







to remove harmful pollutants, such as acid gases, in flue-gas treatment processes. Natronx intends to invest approximately $60 million to construct a 450,000 ton per year facility in Wyoming to
produce trona sorbents by the fourth quarter of 2012, the cost of which will be equally shared among all members. The joint venture started business in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the Company made an initial investment of approximately $3 million
and is committed to investing upwards of an additional $17 million in 2012.

Animal Nutrition Products

A special grade of sodium bicarbonate, as well as sodium sesquicarbonate, is sold to the animal feed market as a feed additive for use by
the dairy industry as a buffer, or antacid, for dairy cattle. The Company also markets DCAD Plus feed grade potassium carbonate, which is manufactured by the Armand Products Company as a feed additive into the animal feed market.

The Company markets MEGALAC rumen bypass fat, a nutritional supplement made from natural oils, which enables cows to maintain energy
levels during the period of high milk production, resulting in improved milk yields and minimized weight loss. The product and the trademark MEGALAC are licensed under a long-term license agreement from a British company, Volac Ltd.

The Company also markets BIO-CHLOR and FERMENTEN, a range of specialty feed ingredients for dairy cows, which improve rumen feed
efficiency and help increase milk production.

Specialty Cleaners

The Company also provides a line of cleaning and deodorizing products for use in commercial and industrial applications such as office
buildings, hotels, restaurants and other facilities.

The Company and Safety-Kleen Corporation are equal partners in a joint
venture, The ArmaKleen Company, which was formed to build a specialty cleaning products business based on the Company’s technology and Safety-Kleen’s sales and distribution organization. In North America, this joint venture distributes the
Company’s proprietary product line of aqueous cleaners along with the Company’s ARMEX blast media line, which is designed for the removal of a wide variety of surface coatings. The Company continues to pursue opportunities to build this
industrial cleaning business using the Company’s aqueous-based technology as well as the ARMEX blast media line of products.

COMPETITION
FOR SPD

Competition within the specialty chemicals and animal nutrition product lines is intense. The specialty chemicals
business operates in a competitive environment influenced by capacity utilization, customers’ leverage and the impact of raw material and energy costs. Product introductions typically involve introductory costs in the year of launch, and the
Company usually is not able to determine whether new products and line extensions will be successful until sometime following the introduction of new products or the extension of the product lines.

DISTRIBUTION FOR SPD

SPD
markets sodium bicarbonate and other chemicals to industrial and agricultural customers primarily throughout the United States and Canada. Distribution is accomplished through a dedicated sales force supplemented by manufacturer’s
representatives and the sales personnel of independent distributors throughout the country. The Company’s products in this segment are located in Company plants and public warehouses and are either delivered by independent trucking companies or
picked up by customers at the Company’s facilities.







RAW MATERIALS AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

The Company manufactures sodium bicarbonate for both its consumer and specialty products businesses at its plants located at Green River,
Wyoming and Old Fort, Ohio. The primary source of soda ash, a basic raw material used by the Company in the production of sodium bicarbonate, is the mineral trona, which is found in abundance in southwestern Wyoming near the Company’s Green
River plant. The Company has adequate trona reserves under mineral leases to support the Company’s sodium bicarbonate requirements for the foreseeable future.

The Company is party to a partnership agreement with General Chemical Corporation, which mines and processes trona reserves in Wyoming. Through the partnership and related supply and services agreements,
the Company fulfills a substantial amount of its soda ash requirements, enabling the Company to achieve some of the economies of an integrated business capable of producing sodium bicarbonate and related products from the basic raw material. The
Company also has an agreement for the supply of soda ash from another company. The partnership agreement and other supply agreements between the Company and General Chemical are terminable upon two years notice by either company. The Company
believes that sufficient alternative sources of supply are available.

The Company believes that ample sources of raw
materials are available for all of its other major products. Detergent chemicals are used in a variety of the Company’s products and are available from a number of sources. Bottles, paper products and clay are available from multiple suppliers,
although the Company chooses to source most of these materials from single sources under long-term supply agreements in order to gain favorable pricing. The Company also uses a palm oil fraction in its rumen bypass fats products. Alternative sources
of supply are available in case of disruption or termination of the supply agreements.

The trend of higher raw material costs
continued into 2011. As a result, the cost of surfactants, diesel fuel, palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD), latex, corrugated paper and oil-based raw and packaging materials used in the household and specialty products businesses were all higher in
2011 than 2010. Additional increases in the prices of certain raw materials could materially impact the Company’s costs and financial results if the Company is unable to pass such costs along in the form of price increases to its
customers.

The Company utilizes the services of third party contract manufacturers around the world for certain products.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

The Company’s trademarks (identified throughout this report in capitalized letters), including ARM & HAMMER, are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and also with
the trademark offices of many foreign countries. The ARM & HAMMER trademark has been used by the Company since 1867, and is a valuable asset and important to the successful operation of the Company’s business. The Company’s other
valuable trademarks include TROJAN, NAIR, ORAJEL, FIRST RESPONSE, XTRA, OXICLEAN, SPINBRUSH, BATISTE, SIMPLY SALINE and FELINE PINE. The Company’s portfolio of trademarks represents substantial goodwill in the businesses using the trademarks.

United States patents are currently granted for a term of 20 years from the date the patent application is filed. Although
the Company actively seeks and maintains a number of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole.

CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG

In each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates were 23%, 23% and 22% respectively, of the
Company’s total consolidated net sales. The time between receipt of orders and shipment is generally short, and as a result, backlog is not significant. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales in the three year
period.







RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT

The Company conducts research and development activities primarily at its Princeton and Cranbury facilities in New Jersey. The Company
devotes significant resources and attention to product development, process technology and basic research to develop differentiated products with new and distinctive features and to provide increased convenience and value to its customers. To
increase its innovative capabilities, the Company engages outside contractors for general research and development in activities beyond its core areas of expertise. The Company spent $55.1 million, $53.7 million and $55.1 million on research and
development activities in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

General

Some of the
Company’s products are subject to regulation by one or more United States agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), the Consumer Product Safety Commission
(“CPSC”), and foreign agencies.

FDA regulations govern a variety of matters relating to our products, such as
product development, manufacturing, premarket clearance or approval, advertising and distribution. The regulations adopted and standards imposed by the FDA and similar foreign agencies evolve over time and can require the Company to make changes in
its manufacturing processes and quality systems to remain in compliance. These agencies periodically inspect manufacturing and other facilities. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations and standards, we may be subject to sanctions,
including fines and penalties, the recall of products and cessation of manufacturing and/or distribution.

In addition, the
Company sells products that are subject to regulation under the Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, which are administered by the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). The Company also is
subject to regulation by the FTC in connection with the content of its labeling, advertising, promotion, trade practices and other matters. The Company’s relationship with certain union employees may be overseen by the National Labor Relations
Board. The Company’s activities also are regulated by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which the Company sells its products.

Medical Device Clearance and Approval







Medical Device Postmarket Regulation

After a medical device is commercialized, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including:



•the quality system regulation, which imposes current good manufacturing practice requirements governing the methods used in, and the facilities and
controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, servicing, labeling, storage, installation, and distribution of all finished medical devices intended for human use;



•labeling regulations prohibiting product promotion for unapproved or “off label” uses;



•the medical device reporting regulation requiring a manufacturer to report to the FDA if its device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and



•the reports of corrections and removals regulation, which requires a manufacturer to report recalls and field actions to the FDA if initiated to reduce
a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA.

OTC Pharmaceutical

The Company has over-the-counter (OTC) pharmaceutical products, such as our toothpaste, antiperspirant, and oral analgesics products, that
are also subject to FDA and foreign regulation. Under the FDA OTC Monograph System, the FDA issues regulations, known as “monographs,” that specify the active ingredients and permitted indications, allowable combinations of ingredients and
dosage levels and required warnings and precautions. In addition, all of the Company’s facilities in the pharmaceutical production and distribution chain must comply with FDA’s good manufacturing practices regulations and are subject
to the FDA’s periodic audits.

For information regarding recent FDA actions pertaining to the Company,
see ”Risk Factors—Failure by us or certain of our suppliers to comply with various regulations in the countries which we operate could expose us to enforcement actions or other adverse consequences,” in Item 1A of this
report.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company’s operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws, rules and regulations relating to environmental and health and safety concerns including air emissions,
wastewater discharges, and solid and hazardous waste management activities. The Company endeavors to take actions necessary to comply with such regulations. These steps include periodic environmental audits of each Company facility. The audits,
conducted by independent engineering firms with expertise in environmental compliance, include site visits at each location, as well as a review of documentary information, to determine compliance with such federal, state, local and foreign laws,
rules and regulations. Other than as described under Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this report, the Company believes that it is in material compliance with existing environmental regulations.

See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this report for information regarding an environmental proceeding relating to the
Company’s Brazilian subsidiary.

GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Approximately 79%, 79% and 81% of the Company’s net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were to customers in the United States. Approximately 96%, 96% and 95% of the Company’s long-lived
assets were located in the United States at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Other than the United States, no one country accounts for more than 7% of consolidated net sales and 3% of total assets.







EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 3,500 employees. The Company is party to a labor contract with the International Machinists Union at its Colonial Heights, Virginia plant,
which expires May 31, 2013. Internationally, the Company employs union employees in France, Mexico, Brazil and New Zealand. The Company believes that its relations with both its union and non-union employees are satisfactory.

CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS

The Company’s operations, exclusive of unconsolidated entities, constitute three reportable segments, Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and Specialty Products (SPD). The table set forth below
shows the percentage of the Company’s net sales contributed by each group of similar products marketed by the Company during 2011, 2010 and 2009.



% of Net Sales(In millions)201120102009Consumer DomesticHousehold Products47%47%47%Personal Care Products25%26%27%Consumer International19%17%16%Specialty Products9%10%10%

The table above reflects consolidated net sales, exclusive of net sales of unconsolidated entities.

PUBLIC INFORMATION

The Company maintains a web site at www.churchdwight.com and on the “Investors—SEC Filings” page of the web site makes available free of charge the Company’s annual reports on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after
the Company electronically files these materials with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on the “Investors—Corporate Governance” page on the Company’s website are the Company’s
Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for the Audit, Compensation & Organization and Governance & Nominating Committees of the Company’s Board of Directors and the Company’s Code of Conduct. Each of the foregoing is
also available in print free of charge and may be obtained upon written request to: Church & Dwight Co., Inc., 469 North Harrison Street, Princeton, New Jersey 08543, attention: Secretary. The information presented in the Company’s web
site is not a part of this report and the reference to the Company’s web site is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.







