ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL

All domestic brand “rankings” contained in this Annual Report are based on dollar share rankings from ACNielsen Food/Drug/Mass Merchandise (excluding Wal-Mart) for the 52 weeks ending
December 22, 2012. Foreign brand “rankings” are derived from several sources.

2012 DEVELOPMENTS

Avid Health Acquisition

On October 1, 2012, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Avid Health, Inc. (“Avid Health”). Avid Health is a leader in the dietary supplement category
that includes vitamins and minerals. Its products, among others, include L’IL CRITTERS children’s gummy form dietary supplements and VITAFUSION adult gummy form dietary supplements. The total purchase price was approximately $650
million, which is subject to adjustment based on the closing working capital of Avid Health and its subsidiaries. The Company financed the acquisition with a combination of proceeds from an underwritten public offering of $400 million aggregate
principal amount of 2.875% Senior Notes due 2022, the issuance of commercial paper and cash.

Avid Health’s annual sales
for the twelve months ended June 2012 were approximately $230 million. These dietary supplement brands will be managed principally within the Consumer Domestic segment.

Share Repurchase Authorization

On October 31, 2012, the
Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program, under which the Company may purchase up to an additional $300 million of the Company’s common stock. Under the new program, shares may be repurchased from time to time
in the open market, in privately negotiated







transactions or otherwise, subject to market conditions, and corporate and legal requirements. There is no expiration date on the stock repurchase authorization and the Company is not obligated
to acquire any specific number of shares. The previous share repurchase program announced in August 2011 had an authorization of $300 million, $20 million of which remained available on October 31, 2012.

In 2012, the Company purchased approximately 5 million shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $250 million under both
programs. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had used the full $300 million authorized under the August 2011 program, and had $270 million remaining available for use under the October 2012 program. In January 2013, the Company purchased an
additional 0.9 million shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $50 million. As of the filing date of this Annual Report, the Company has made no additional purchases in 2013, and has approximately $220 million remaining for use in the
repurchase of the Company’s shares.

New Corporate Office Building

On July 20, 2011, the Company entered into a 20 year lease for a new corporate headquarters building constructed in Ewing, New Jersey
(approximately 10 miles from the Company’s former corporate headquarters in Princeton, New Jersey) to meet office space needs for the foreseeable future. The Company began occupancy in late 2012 and as a result, the lease will expire in 2032.
The Company’s lease commitment is approximately $116 million over the lease term. Based on certain clauses in the lease, the Company is considered the owner for financial statement reporting purposes, and recorded approximately $50 million as
of December 31, 2012 in building assets and a corresponding amount in other long-term liabilities.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT
SEGMENTS

As noted above, the Company’s business is organized into three reportable segments: Consumer Domestic,
Consumer International and SPD. These segments are based on differences in the nature of products and organizational and ownership structures. The businesses of these segments generally are not seasonal, although the Consumer Domestic and Consumer
International segments are affected by sales of SPINBRUSH and ARM & HAMMER battery-operated toothbrushes (which typically are higher during the fall, in advance of the holiday season), sales of NAIR depilatories and waxes (which typically
are higher in the spring and summer months), and sales of VITAFUSION and L’IL CRITTERS dietary supplements (which typically are slightly higher in the fourth quarter of each year, in advance of the cold and flu season and renewed commitments to
health). Information concerning the net sales, operating income and identifiable assets of each of the segments is set forth in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report and in “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which is Item 7 of this Annual Report.







CONSUMER PRODUCTS

Consumer Domestic

Principal Products

The Company’s founders first marketed baking soda in 1846 for use in home baking. Today, this product has a wide variety of uses in
the home, including as a refrigerator and freezer deodorizer, scratch-free cleaner and deodorizer for kitchen surfaces and cooking appliances, bath additive, dentifrice, cat litter deodorizer and swimming pool pH stabilizer. The Company specializes
in baking soda-based products, as well as other products which use the same raw materials or technology or are sold in the same markets. In addition, this segment includes other deodorizing and household cleaning products, as well as laundry and
personal care products. The following table sets forth the principal products of the Company’s Consumer Domestic segment.



Type of ProductKey Brand NamesHouseholdARM & HAMMER Baking SodaARM & HAMMER Carpet DeodorizersARM &
HAMMER Cat Litter DeodorizerARM & HAMMER Clumping Cat LittersARM & HAMMER Powder, Liquid and Unit Dose Laundry DetergentsARM & HAMMER Super Washing
SodaARM & HAMMER FRESH’N SOFT Fabric SoftenersARM & HAMMER TOTAL 2-in-1 Dryer ClothsCAMEO Aluminum and Stainless Steel CleanerCLEAN SHOWER Daily Shower CleanerDELICARE Fine
Fabric WashFELINE PINE Cat LitterKABOOM Cleaning ProductsNICE’N FLUFFY
Fabric SoftenersORANGE GLO Cleaning ProductsOXICLEAN Dishwashing BoosterOXICLEAN Laundry and Cleaning SolutionsSCRUB FREE Bathroom CleanersSNO BOL Toilet Bowl
CleanerXTRA Fabric SoftenersXTRA
Powder and Liquid Laundry DetergentsPersonal CareAIM ToothpasteANSWER Home Pregnancy and Ovulation Test KitsARM & HAMMER Deodorants and AntiperspirantsARM & HAMMER ToothpastesARM & HAMMER TOOTH TUNES ToothbrushesARRID
AntiperspirantsBATISTE Dry ShampooCARTERS LITTLE PILLS LaxativeCLOSE-UP
ToothpasteFIRST RESPONSE Home Pregnancy and Ovulation Test KitsLADY’S CHOICE AntiperspirantsL’IL CRITTERS Dietary SupplementsMENTADENT Toothpaste and ToothbrushesNAIR
Depilatories, Lotions, Creams and WaxesORAJEL Oral AnalgesicsPEPSODENT ToothpasteSIMPLY SALINE Nasal Saline MoisturizerSPINBRUSH Battery-operated ToothbrushesTROJAN
Condoms and Vibrating ProductsVITAFUSION Dietary Supplements







Household Products

In 2012, household products constituted approximately 65% of the Company’s Domestic Consumer sales and approximately 48% of the
Company’s total sales.

The ARM & HAMMER trademark was adopted in 1867. ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda
remains the leading brand of baking soda in terms of consumer recognition of the brand name and reputation for quality and value. The deodorizing properties of baking soda have led to the development of several household products. For example, the
Company markets ARM & HAMMER FRIDGE FRESH, a refrigerator deodorizer equipped with a baking soda filter to help keep food tasting fresher. In addition, ARM & HAMMER Carpet Deodorizer is the number one brand in the domestic carpet deodorizer
market.

The Company’s laundry detergents constitute its largest consumer business, measured by net sales. The Company
markets its ARM & HAMMER brand laundry detergents in powder, liquid and unit dose forms, as value products, priced at a discount from products identified by the Company as market leaders. The Company markets its XTRA laundry detergent in both
powder and liquid forms at a slightly lower price than ARM & HAMMER brand laundry detergents. The Company also markets XTRA LASTING SCENTSATIONS, XTRA FRESCO SCENTSATIONS and XTRA FRESH SCENTSATIONS, a line of highly fragranced and concentrated
liquid laundry detergents, and OXICLEAN laundry stain fighting additives. OXICLEAN is the number one brand in the laundry stain fighting additive market in the U.S. The Company markets ARM & HAMMER PLUS OXICLEAN liquid and powder laundry
detergents, combining the benefits of these two powerful laundry detergent products. In 2012, the Company launched its ARM & HAMMER CRYSTAL BURST and ARM & HAMMER TOSS’N DONE unit dose laundry detergents. In 2013, the Company will
launch ARM & HAMMER Ultra Power, a 4X concentrated liquid laundry detergent, and two new fragrances within its XTRA line: Warm Vanilla Comfort and Rain Lily and Aloe.

The Company’s laundry products also include fabric softener sheets that prevent static cling and soften and freshen clothes. The Company markets ARM & HAMMER FRESH’N SOFT fabric softeners
and offers a liquid fabric softener, NICE’N FLUFFY, at a slightly lower price enabling the Company to compete at several price points.The Companymarkets ARM & HAMMER TOTAL 2-in-1 Dryer Cloths, a fabric softener sheet used in
the clothes dryer that delivers liquid-like softening, freshening and static control.

The Company also markets a line of cat
litter products, including ARM & HAMMER Super Scoop clumping cat litter. Line extensions of Super Scoop include ARM & HAMMER Multi-Cat cat litter, designed for households with more than one cat, ARM & HAMMER Odor Alert cat litter, with
crystals that change color when activated, ARM & HAMMER ESSENTIALS clumping cat litter, a corn-based scoopable litter made for consumers who prefer to use products made with natural ingredients, and ARM & HAMMER Double Duty cat litter, which
eliminates both urine and feces odors on contact. FELINE PINE cat litter continues to be the number one brand in the natural litter segment, which is the highest growth segment in the litter category. This brand complements the
Company’s existing cat litter business and positions the Company as the leading supplier of natural cat litter. In 2012, the Company launched ARM & HAMMER ULTRA LAST, a longer lasting clumping cat litter.

In addition, the Company markets a line of household cleaning products including CLEAN SHOWER daily shower cleaner, and SCRUB FREE
bathroom cleaners. The Company also markets KABOOM bathroom cleaners and ORANGE GLO household cleaning products. In 2012, the Company launched OXICLEAN Dishwashing Booster, which removes cloudy film and food particles on glasses and dishes.

Personal Care Products

The Company’s personal care business uses the unique strengths of its ARM & HAMMER trademark and baking soda technology, and the Company has expanded its presence through its acquisition of
antiperspirants,







oral care products, depilatories, reproductive health products, oral analgesics, nasal saline moisturizers and dietary supplements under a variety of other leading brand names. In 2012, Personal
Care Products constituted approximately 35% of the Company’s Consumer Domestic sales and approximately 26% of the Company’s total sales.

ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda, when used as a dentifrice, helps whiten and polish teeth, removes plaque and leaves the mouth feeling fresh and clean. These properties led to the development of a
complete line of sodium bicarbonate-based dentifrice products which are marketed and sold nationally primarily under the ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE and ARM & HAMMER ADVANCE WHITE brand names. In 2012, the Company launched a line of
toothpaste for sensitive teeth under the ARM & HAMMER brand.

The Company also manufactures in the United States (the
“U.S.”) and markets in the U.S. (including Puerto Rico) and Canada, CLOSE-UP, PEPSODENT and AIM toothpastes, which are priced at a discount from the market leaders, and the MENTADENT brand of toothpaste and toothbrushes.

The Company markets ORAJEL oral analgesics, which includes products for adults as well as babies, including ORAJEL Cooling Cucumber
Teething Gel and BABY ORAJEL Tooth and Gum Cleanser. In 2013, the Company will launch a single dose cold sore product under the ORAJEL brand.

The Company markets SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes in the U.S. (including Puerto Rico), the United Kingdom, Canada, China and Australia. In 2012, the SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrush was a
leading brand of battery-operated toothbrushes in the U.S. The Company also markets SPINBRUSH PROCLEAN toothbrushes, a two speed version of the product, SPINBRUSH PROCLEAN RECHARGE, a rechargeable toothbrush offering up to one week of power brushes
between charges and SPINBRUSH PROCLEAN Sonic, a reasonably priced high speed battery-operated toothbrush which competes with much more expensive “sonic” toothbrushes. In 2012, the Company launched ARM & HAMMER TOOTH TUNES
battery-operated toothbrushes, with proprietary technology that delivers music while brushing. In 2013, the Company will launch additional song offerings under its TOOTH TUNES brand, including songs by the band One Direction.

The Company’s deodorant and antiperspirant products are marketed under the ARM & HAMMER, ARRID and LADY’S CHOICE brand
names.

Condoms are recognized as highly reliable contraceptives as well as an effective means of reducing the risk of
sexually transmitted diseases. The Company’s TROJAN condom brand has been in use for more than 90 years, and includes such products as ECSTASY, TROJAN EXTENDED PLEASURE, HER PLEASURE, TWISTED PLEASURE, SHARED PLEASURE, MAGNUM and
FIRE & ICE. In 2012, the brand continued its market and innovation leadership in the U.S. with the new TROJAN CHARGED condom with a sensate lubricant that has heating, cooling and tingling properties, and TROJAN Vibrations MIDNIGHT
COLLECTION, a new line of vibrating products. In 2013, the Company intends to launch a new line of lubrication products under the TROJAN brand, and TROJAN PURE ECSTASY condoms.

In 2012, the Company’s FIRST RESPONSE brand continued to be the number one selling brand in the home pregnancy and ovulation test
kit business category. The Company also markets ANSWER, which competes in the value segment of the home pregnancy and ovulation test kit market. The Company also markets a home female fertility test under the FIRST RESPONSE brand name.

The Company’s NAIR depilatory brand is the number one selling depilatory brand in the U.S., with innovative products that address
consumer needs for quick, complete and longer-lasting hair removal. The Company offers a full array of depilatory products for women, men and teens under the NAIR brand name, including Cool Gel, Shower Power, Roll-On, and Milk N’Honey. In 2012,
the Company launched its NAIR Brazilian Spa Clay products for both depilatory and wax, and in 2013 the Company will add to this line with its NAIR TOTAL CARE body and face trios.







The Company markets the SIMPLY SALINE brand of nasal saline moisturizers in the U.S,,
complementing the Company’s existing STERIMAR brand nasal saline solution business in Europe and other parts of the world. In addition, in 2012, the Company began to market BATISTE dry shampoo in the U.S.

As a result of the Company’s acquisition of Avid Health in 2012, the Company now markets and sells, among others, the L’IL
CRITTERS children’s gummy dietary supplement line and the VITAFUSION adult gummy dietary supplement line, both leading brands in the gummy-form dietary supplement category.

Consumer International

The Consumer International segment markets a
variety of personal care products, household and over-the-counter products in international markets, including Canada, France, Australia, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Brazil and China.

Total Consumer International net sales represented approximately 17% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2012. Net sales of
the subsidiaries located in Canada, France, the United Kingdom and Australia accounted for 37%, 15%, 18% and 12%, respectively, of the Company’s 2012 international net sales in this segment. No other country in which the Company operates
accounts for more than 10% of its total international net sales, and no product line accounts for more than 15% of total international net sales.

Certain of the Company’s international product lines are similar to its domestic product lines. For example, the Company markets home pregnancy and ovulation test kits and oral care products in most
of its international markets, waxes and depilatory products in virtually all international locations, TROJAN condoms in Canada and Mexico and L’IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSION dietary supplements principally in Canada and Asia.

The Company has expanded distribution of ARM & HAMMER products internationally by marketing ARM & HAMMER laundry and
pet care products in Canada and ARM & HAMMER laundry care products in Mexico. The Company also markets SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes internationally, primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada, France, China and Australia, and
OXICLEAN and ORANGE GLO products internationally, primarily in Mexico and Canada.

The Company sells PEARL DROPS dentifrice
products in Europe, Canada and Australia and STERIMAR nasal hygiene products in a number of markets in Europe, Latin America, China and Australia. The Company also sells BATISTE dry shampoo principally in the United Kingdom, with distributors
selling into Australia, and 2012 launches in Brazil and Mexico.

COMPETITION FOR CONSUMER DOMESTIC AND CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL

The Company competes in the household and personal care consumer product categories, which are highly innovative categories, characterized
by a continuous flow of new products and line extensions, and requiring significant advertising and promotion. The Company competes in these categories primarily on the basis of product innovation and performance, brand recognition, price, value and
other consumer benefits. Consumer products, particularly those that are value-priced, such as laundry and household cleaning products, as well as certain toothpaste products, are subject to significant price competition. As a result, the Company
from time to time may need to reduce the prices for some of its products to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share.

Internationally, the Company’s products compete in similar competitive categories for most of its products.

Many of the Company’s competitors are large companies, including The Procter & Gamble Company, The Sun Products Corporation, The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, S.C.
Johnson & Son, Inc., Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Johnson & Johnson, Ansell Limited, Pfizer Inc., Bayer AG and Alere Inc. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than the Company and
have the capacity to outspend the Company if they attempt to gain market share.







Product introductions typically involve heavy marketing costs in the year of launch, and the
Company usually is not able to determine whether the new products and line extensions will be successful until a period of time has elapsed following the introduction of the new products or the extension of the product line.

Because of the competitive environment facing retailers, the Company faces pricing pressure from customers, particularly high-volume
retailer store customers, who have increasingly sought to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms. These concessions or terms could reduce the Company’s margins. Furthermore, if the Company is unable to maintain price or trade terms
acceptable to its customers, they could increase product purchases from competitors and reduce purchases from the Company, which would harm the Company’s sales and profitability.

DISTRIBUTION FOR CONSUMER DOMESTIC

Products in the Consumer Domestic segment are
marketed throughout the U.S. primarily through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, drugstores, convenience stores, dollar, pet and other specialty stores, and websites, all of which sell the
products to consumers. The Company employs a sales force based regionally throughout the U.S. that utilizes the services of independent food brokers, who represent our products in the Food, Pet, Dollar and Club classes of trade. The
Company’s products are stored in Company plants and third-party owned warehouses and are either delivered by independent trucking companies or picked up by customers at the Company’s facilities.

DISTRIBUTION FOR CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL

Products in the Consumer International segment are marketed primarily through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, wholesale clubs, pharmacies and drugstores, convenience stores and
discount stores. The Company’s Consumer International distribution network reflects capacity and cost considerations in the regions served. In Canada, Mexico and Australia, finished goods are warehoused internally and shipped directly to
customers through independent freight carriers. In the United Kingdom, domestic product distribution is subcontracted to professional distribution companies, while export product distribution is handled internally and shipped from the Company’s
warehouses. In France, distribution of consumer products to mass markets is handled internally while distribution of the Company’s over-the-counter products to pharmacies and professional diagnostics to laboratories is handled by outside
agencies. In Brazil and China, all product distribution is subcontracted to professional distribution companies.







Specialty Products Division (“SPD”)

Principal Products

The
Company’s SPD segment focuses on sales to businesses and participates in three product areas: Specialty Chemicals, Animal Nutrition and Specialty Cleaners. The following table sets forth the principal products of the Company’s SPD segment.



Type of ProductKey Brand NamesSpecialty ChemicalsARM & HAMMER Performance Grade Sodium BicarbonateARMAND PRODUCTS COMPANY Potassium Carbonate and Potassium Bicarbonate(1)Enprove Ground Trona(2)Enprove Sodium Bicarbonate(2)Animal NutritionARM & HAMMER Feed Grade Sodium BicarbonateBIO-CHLOR and FERMENTEN Rumen Fermentation EnhancersDCAD PLUS Feed Grade Potassium
Carbonate(3)Megalac Rumen Bypass Fat(4)Megalac-R Omega 3 & Omega 6 Essential Fatty
Acids(4)MEGAMINE-L, Rumen Bypass LysineSQ-810 Natural Sodium SesquicarbonateSpecialty CleanersARMAKLEEN Commercial & Professional Aqueous Cleaners(5)ARMEX Blast Media(5)Commercial & Professional Cleaners and Deodorizers



(1)Manufactured and marketed by Armand Products Company, a joint venture in which the Company holds a 50% interest.

(2)Distributed and marketed by Natronx Technologies, LLC (“Natronx”), a joint venture in which the Company holds a one-third ownership interest. Enprove is a
registered trademark of FMC Corporation (“FMC”) that has been assigned to Natronx with the right of reversion to FMC upon a Natronx dissolution.

(3)Manufactured for the Company by Armand Products Company.

(4)Megalac is a registered trademark of Volac International Limited.

(5)Distributed in North America by The ArmaKleen Company, a joint venture in which the Company holds a 50% ownership interest.

Specialty Chemicals

The Company’s specialty chemicals business primarily encompasses the manufacture, marketing and sale of sodium bicarbonate in a range of grades and granulations for use in industrial markets. In
industrial markets, sodium bicarbonate is used by other manufacturing companies as a leavening agent for commercial baked goods, as an antacid in pharmaceuticals, as a carbon dioxide release agent in fire extinguishers, as an alkaline agent in
swimming pool chemicals, and as a buffer in kidney dialysis.

The Company’s 99.8% owned Brazilian subsidiary, Quimica
Geral do Nordeste (“QGN”), is South America’s leading provider of sodium bicarbonate. The business, which has annual revenues of approximately $40 million, markets sodium bicarbonate, dairy products and other chemicals in
Brazil. The Company is in continued discussions for the sale of this business, and as such has classified the business as an “asset held for sale”.

The Company and Occidental Chemical Corporation are equal partners in a joint venture, Armand Products Company, which manufactures and markets potassium carbonate and potassium bicarbonate for sale in
domestic and international markets. The potassium-based products are used in a wide variety of applications, including agricultural products, specialty glass and ceramics, and potassium silicates. Armand Products Company also manufactures for
the Company a potassium carbonate-based animal feed additive for sale in the dairy industry, described below under “Animal Nutrition Products.”







The Company, FMC Corporation and TATA Chemicals (Soda Ash) Partners are equal partners in
Natronx. The Company’s investment is accounted for under the equity method. Natronx engages in the marketing and distribution of sodium-based, dry sorbents for air pollution control in electric utility and industrial boiler operations. The
sorbents, primarily sodium bicarbonate and trona, are used by coal-fired utilities to remove harmful pollutants, such as acid gases, in flue-gas treatment processes.

Animal Nutrition Products

A special grade of sodium bicarbonate, as well
as sodium sesquicarbonate, is sold to the animal feed market as a feed additive for use by the dairy industry as a buffer, or antacid, for dairy cattle. The Company also markets DCAD PLUS feed grade potassium carbonate, which is manufactured by
Armand Products Company as a feed additive into the animal feed market.

The Company markets MEGALAC rumen bypass fat, a
nutritional supplement made from natural oils, which enables cows to maintain energy levels during the period of high milk production, resulting in improved milk yields and minimized weight loss. The product and the trademark MEGALAC are licensed
under a long-term license agreement from a British company, Volac International Limited.

The Company also markets BIO-CHLOR
and FERMENTEN, a range of specialty feed ingredients for dairy cows, which improve rumen feed efficiency and help increase milk production.

Specialty Cleaners

The Company also provides a line of cleaning and
deodorizing products for use in commercial and industrial applications such as office buildings, hotels, restaurants and other facilities.

The Company and Safety-Kleen Systems, Inc. (“Safety-Kleen”) are equal partners in a joint venture, The ArmaKleen Company, which was formed to build a specialty cleaning products business based
on the Company’s technology and Safety-Kleen’s sales and distribution organization. In North America, this joint venture distributes the Company’s proprietary product line of aqueous cleaners along with the Company’s ARMEX blast
media line, which is designed for the removal of a wide variety of surface coatings. The Company continues to pursue opportunities to build this industrial cleaning business using the Company’s aqueous-based technology as well as the ARMEX
blast media line of products.

COMPETITION FOR SPD

Competition within the specialty chemicals and animal nutrition product lines is intense. The specialty chemicals business operates in a competitive environment influenced by capacity utilization,
customers’ leverage and the impact of raw material and energy costs. Product introductions typically involve introductory costs in the year of launch, and the Company usually is not able to determine whether new products and line extensions
will be successful until sometime following the introduction of new products or the extension of the product lines. The Company’s key competitors are Solvay Chemicals, Inc., FMC Corporation and Natural Soda, Inc.

DISTRIBUTION FOR SPD

SPD
markets sodium bicarbonate and other chemicals to industrial and agricultural customers primarily throughout the U.S. and Canada. Distribution is accomplished through a dedicated sales force supplemented by manufacturer’s representatives and
the sales personnel of independent distributors throughout the country. The Company’s products in this segment are located in Company plants and public warehouses and are either delivered by independent trucking companies or picked up by
customers at the Company’s facilities.







RAW MATERIALS AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

The Company manufactures sodium bicarbonate for both its consumer and specialty products businesses at its plants located at Green River,
Wyoming and Old Fort, Ohio. The primary source of soda ash, a basic raw material used by the Company in the production of sodium bicarbonate, is the mineral trona, which is found in abundance in southwestern Wyoming near the Company’s Green
River plant. The Company has adequate trona reserves under mineral leases to support the Company’s sodium bicarbonate requirements for the foreseeable future.

The Company is party to a partnership agreement with General Chemical Corporation, which mines and processes trona reserves in Wyoming. Through the partnership and related supply and services agreements,
the Company fulfills a substantial amount of its soda ash requirements, enabling the Company to achieve some of the economies of an integrated business capable of producing sodium bicarbonate and related products from the basic raw material. The
Company also has an agreement for the supply of soda ash from another company. The partnership agreement and other supply agreements between the Company and General Chemical are terminable upon two years notice by either company. The Company
believes that sufficient alternative sources of supply are available.

The Company believes that ample sources of raw
materials are available for all of its other major products. Detergent chemicals are used in a variety of the Company’s products and are available from a number of sources. Bottles, paper products and clay are available from multiple suppliers,
although the Company chooses to source most of these materials from single sources under long-term supply agreements in order to gain favorable pricing. The Company also uses a palm oil fraction in its rumen bypass fats products. Alternative sources
of supply are available in case of disruption or termination of the supply agreements.

The cost of surfactants, diesel fuel
and oil-based raw and packaging materials used primarily in the consumer businesses were higher in 2012 compared to 2011. The cost of soda ash was higher in 2012 than 2011, and the cost of palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD) used in SPD was lower
in 2012 than 2011. Increases in the prices of certain raw materials could materially impact the Company’s costs and financial results if the Company is unable to pass such costs along in the form of price increases to its customers.

The Company utilizes the services of third party contract manufacturers around the world for certain products.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

The Company’s trademarks appear in upper case letters throughout this Annual Report. The Company’s trademarks are registered
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and also with the trademark offices of many foreign countries. The ARM & HAMMER trademark has been used by the Company since 1867, and is a valuable asset and important to the successful operation
of the Company’s business. The Company’s products are sold under many other valuable trademarks held by the Company, including TROJAN, NAIR, ORAJEL, FIRST RESPONSE, XTRA, OXICLEAN, SPINBRUSH, BATISTE, SIMPLY SALINE, FELINE PINE, L’IL
CRITTERS and VITAFUSION. The Company’s portfolio of trademarks represents substantial goodwill in the businesses using the trademarks.

U.S. patents are currently granted for a term of 20 years from the date the patent application is filed. Although the Company actively seeks and maintains a number of patents, no single patent is
considered significant to the business as a whole.

CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG

In each of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
and its affiliates, were 24%, 23% and 23% respectively, of the Company’s total







consolidated net sales. The time between receipt of orders and shipment is generally short, and as a result, backlog is not significant. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of
consolidated net sales in the three year period.

RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT

The Company conducts research and development activities primarily at its Princeton and Cranbury facilities in New Jersey. The Company
devotes significant resources and attention to product development, process technology and basic research to develop differentiated products with new and distinctive features and to provide increased convenience and value to its customers. To
increase its innovative capabilities, the Company engages outside contractors for general research and development in activities beyond its core areas of expertise. The Company spent $54.8 million, $55.1 million and $53.7 million on research and
development activities in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

General

Some of the
Company’s products are subject to regulation by one or more U.S. agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”),
the Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”), and foreign agencies.

FDA regulations govern a variety of matters
relating to our products, such as product development, manufacturing, premarket clearance or approval, advertising and distribution. The regulations adopted and standards imposed by the FDA and similar foreign agencies evolve over time and can
require the Company to make changes in its manufacturing processes and quality systems to remain in compliance. These agencies periodically inspect manufacturing and other facilities. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations and standards,
we may be subject to sanctions, including fines and penalties, the recall of products and cessation of manufacturing and/or distribution.

In addition, the Company sells products that are subject to regulation under the Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, which are administered by the EPA. The
Company also is subject to regulation by the FTC in connection with the content of its labeling, advertising, promotion, trade practices and other matters.

The CPSC administers the Poison Prevention Packaging Act, and has issued regulations requiring special child resistant packaging for certain products, including pharmaceuticals, dietary supplements, and
dietary substances, containing certain ingredients (e.g., iron).

The Company’s relationship with certain union employees
may be overseen by the National Labor Relations Board. The Company’s activities also are regulated by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which the Company sells its products.

Medical Device Clearance and Approval

To be commercially distributed in the U.S., a medical device must, unless exempt, receive clearance or approval from the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”). Lower
risk devices are categorized as either class I or II devices. For class II devices, the manufacturer must generally submit a premarket notification requesting clearance for commercial distribution known as a “510(k)” clearance. Our
condoms, home pregnancy and ovulation test kits are regulated as class II devices. Some low risk devices, including our SPINBRUSH and ARM & HAMMER battery powered toothbrushes, are in class I and are generally exempted from the 510(k)
requirement. To obtain 510(k) clearance, a device must be determined to be substantially equivalent in intended use and in safety and effectiveness to a benchmark device, or “predicate” that







is already legally in commercial distribution. Any modification to a 510(k) cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a change in its
intended use, generally requires a new 510(k) clearance. A manufacturer may determine that a new 510(k) clearance is not required, but if the FDA disagrees, it may retroactively require a 510(k) clearance and may require the manufacturer to cease
marketing or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance is obtained.

Medical Device Postmarket Regulation

After a medical device is commercialized, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including:



•the quality system regulation, which imposes current good manufacturing practice requirements governing the methods used in, and the facilities and
controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, servicing, labeling, storage, installation, and distribution of all finished medical devices intended for human use;



•labeling regulations, including a prohibition on product promotion for unapproved or “off label” uses;



•the medical device reporting regulation requiring a manufacturer to report to the FDA if its device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and



•the reports of corrections and removals regulation, which requires a manufacturer to report recalls and field actions to the FDA if initiated to reduce
a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may present a risk to health.

OTC
Pharmaceutical

The Company markets over-the-counter (“OTC”) pharmaceutical products, such as toothpaste,
antiperspirant, and oral analgesics products, that are also subject to FDA and foreign regulation. Under the U.S. OTC monograph system, selected OTC pharmaceutical products are generally recognized as safe and effective and do not require the
submission and approval of a new drug application. The FDA OTC monographs include well-known ingredients and specify requirements for permitted indications, required warnings and precautions, allowable combinations of ingredients and dosage levels.
Pharmaceutical products marketed under the OTC monograph system must conform to specific quality, formula and labeling requirements.

All facilities where OTC pharmaceutical products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored or distributed must comply with FDA current Good Manufacturing Practice (“cGMP”) regulations and/or
regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries where the facilities are located. All of the Company’s pharmaceutical products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored and distributed according to cGMP regulations. The FDA
performs periodic audits to ensure that the Company’s facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations. The failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to a breach of representations made to customers or to regulatory
action against the Company related to the products made in that facility, such as seizure, injunction or recall. Serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against the Company that, among other things, could result in
the suspension of production or distribution of the Company’s products, product seizures, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or operating
results. The manufacturer, packer, or distributor of an OTC pharmaceutical product marketed in the U.S., whose name appears on the label of such product, is required to report serious adverse events associated with the use of the product.

The Company cannot predict whether new legislation regulating the Company’s activities will be enacted or what effect
any legislation would have on the Company’s business.







Dietary Supplements

The processing, formulation, safety, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution, importing, selling, and storing of dietary supplements are subject to regulation by one or more federal
agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the CPSC, the EPA, and by various agencies of the states and localities in which the Company’s products are sold. The FDCA governs the composition, safety, labeling, manufacturing and marketing of dietary
supplements.

Generally, dietary ingredients that were marketed in the U.S. prior to October 15, 1994 may be used in
dietary supplements without notifying the FDA. “New” dietary ingredients (i.e.,dietary ingredients that were not marketed in the U.S. before October 15, 1994) must be the subject of a new dietary ingredient notification
submitted to the FDA at least 75 days before the initial marketing unless the ingredient has been present in the food supply as an article used for food without being chemically altered. A new dietary ingredient notification must provide evidence of
a history of use or other evidence establishing that use of the dietary ingredient is reasonably expected to be safe. The FDA may determine that a new dietary ingredient notification does not provide an adequate basis to conclude that a dietary
ingredient is reasonably expected to be safe. Such a determination could effectively prevent the marketing of the dietary ingredient. On July 5, 2011, the FDA issued draft guidance governing notification of new dietary ingredients. The draft
guidance was issued for public comment and not for implementation. The guidance, if implemented, could effectively change the status of dietary ingredients that the industry has marketed as “old” dietary ingredients to “new”
dietary ingredients that may require submission of a new dietary ingredient notification.

The FDCA permits “statements
of nutritional support” to be included in labeling for dietary supplements without FDA pre-market approval. The FDA must be notified of those statements within 30 days of marketing. Among other things, the statements may describe the role
of a dietary ingredient intended to affect the structure or function of the body or characterize the documented mechanism of action by which a dietary ingredient maintains such structure or function, but may not expressly or implicitly represent
that a dietary supplement will diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat, or prevent a disease. A company that uses a statement of nutritional support in labeling must possess information substantiating that the statement is truthful and not misleading. If
the FDA determines that a particular statement of nutritional support is an unacceptable drug claim or an unauthorized version of a health claim, or if the FDA determines that a particular claim is not adequately supported by existing scientific
evidence or is otherwise false or misleading, the claim could not be used and any product bearing the claim could be subject to regulatory action.

The FTC exercises jurisdiction over the advertising of dietary supplements. The FTC considers whether a product’s advertising claims
are accurate, truthful and not misleading pursuant to its authority under the Federal Trade Commission Act, or FTC Act. The FTC has instituted numerous enforcement actions against dietary







supplement companies for failure to adequately substantiate claims made in advertising or for the use of otherwise false or misleading advertising claims. These enforcement actions have resulted
in consent decrees and the payment of civil penalties and/or restitution by the companies involved. Such actions can result in substantial financial penalties and significantly restrict the marketing of a dietary supplement.

Legislation may be introduced which, if passed, would impose substantial new regulatory requirements on dietary supplements. The effect
of additional domestic or international governmental legislation, regulations, or administrative orders, if and when promulgated, cannot be determined. New legislation or regulations may require the reformulation of certain products to meet new
standards, and require the recall or discontinuance of certain products not capable of reformulation.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company’s operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws, rules and regulations
relating to environmental and health and safety concerns including air emissions, wastewater discharges, and solid and hazardous waste management activities. The Company endeavors to take actions necessary to comply with such regulations. These
steps include periodic environmental audits of each Company facility. The audits, conducted by independent engineering firms with expertise in environmental compliance, include site visits at each location, as well as a review of documentary
information, to determine compliance with such federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations. Other than as described under Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this Annual Report, the Company believes that it is in material compliance
with existing environmental regulations.

See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report for information
regarding an environmental proceeding relating to the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary.

GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Approximately 79% of the Company’s net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010 were to customers in the U.S. Approximately 97%, 96% and 96% of
the Company’s long-lived assets were located in the U.S. at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Other than the U.S., no one country accounts for more than 7% of consolidated net sales and 5% of total assets.

EMPLOYEES

At
December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately 4,400 employees. The Company is party to a labor contract with the International Machinists Union at its Colonial Heights, Virginia plant, which expires May 31,
2013. Internationally, the Company employs union employees in France, Mexico, Brazil and New Zealand. The Company believes that its relations with both its union and non-union employees are satisfactory.

CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS

The Company’s operations, exclusive of unconsolidated entities, constitute three reportable segments: Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and SPD. The table set forth below shows the percentage
of the Company’s net sales contributed by each group of similar products marketed by the Company during 2012, 2011 and 2010.



% of Net Sales(In millions)201220112010Consumer DomesticHousehold Products48%47%47%Personal Care Products26%25%26%Consumer International17%19%17%Specialty Products9%9%10%

The table above reflects consolidated net sales, exclusive of net sales of unconsolidated entities.







PUBLIC INFORMATION

The Company maintains a web site at www.churchdwight.com and on the “Investors—SEC Filings” page of the web site makes available free of charge the Company’s annual reports on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after
the Company electronically files these materials with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on the “Investors—Corporate Governance” page on the Company’s website are the Company’s
Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for the Audit, Compensation & Organization and Governance & Nominating Committees of the Company’s Board of Directors and the Company’s Code of Conduct. Each of the foregoing is
also available in print free of charge and may be obtained upon written request to: Church & Dwight Co., Inc., 500 Charles Ewing Boulevard, Ewing, New Jersey 08628, attention: Secretary. The information presented in the Company’s
website is not a part of this Annual Report and the reference to the Company’s website is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.







