ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL

All domestic brand “rankings” contained in this report are based on dollar share rankings from AC Nielsen FDM excluding Wal-Mart for the 52 weeks ending December 25, 2010. Foreign brand
“rankings” are derived from several sources.

2010 DEVELOPMENTS

On June 4, 2010, the Company acquired the SIMPLY SALINE brand of Nasal Saline Moisturizers from Blairex Laboratories (“Simply
Saline Acquisition”) for cash consideration of $70.0 million. This brand will complement the Company’s existing STERIMAR brand nasal saline solution business in Europe and other parts of the world. The SIMPLY SALINE brand will be managed
principally within the Consumer Domestic segment.

On December 21, 2010, the Company acquired the FELINE
PINE cat litter brand from Nature’s Earth Products, Inc. (“Feline Pine Acquisition”) for a cash consideration of $46.0 million. This brand will complement the Company’s existing cat litter business and position the
Company as the leading supplier of natural cat litter. The FELINE PINE brand will be managed within the Consumer Domestic segment.

In the first quarter of 2010, the Company sold the BRILLO and certain LAMBERT KAY product lines, along with associated productive assets, that were classified as net assets held for sale at
December 31, 2009. The aggregate carrying value of these assets at December 31, 2009 was approximately $8.8 million. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, the Company received net proceeds from the sale of these assets of $8.2 million,
along with a note receivable of $1.8 million, and, in the first quarter of 2010, recognized a gain of approximately $1.0 million that was recorded as an offset to selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consumer Domestic segment.

On January 27, 2010, the Company’s Board of Directors approved the termination, effective April 15, 2010, of
the Church & Dwight Co., Inc. Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees (the “U.S. Pension Plan”), under which approximately 766 participants, including 46 active employees, have accrued benefits. On December 1, 2010, the
Company as plan sponsor of the U.S. Pension Plan, purchased a non participating group annuity contract from the Principal Life Insurance Company for the benefit of certain former and current employees with vested benefits in, and retired
participants currently receiving benefits from the U.S. Pension Plan. In addition, effective December 1, 2010, an existing participating annuity contract with Aetna Insurance Company was changed to a non-participating annuity contract.







The purchase price of the contracts was approximately $63 million, which was funded from the
assets of the U.S. Pension Plan on December 1, 2010 (considered the measurement date for accounting purposes) and a one-time payment by the Company of approximately $14 million (or $9 million after taxes). The transactions have resulted in the
transfer and settlement of the U.S. pension benefit obligation, thus relieving the Company of any responsibility for the U.S. Pension Plan obligation. As a result of the transfer of the U.S. Pension Plan obligations and assets described above, the
Company recorded a charge to earnings in the fourth quarter of 2010 of approximately $24 million pre-tax or $0.21 per share. This charge is included in selling, general and administrative costs.

The Company’s York, Pennsylvania manufacturing and distribution facility, which started production in late 2009, has met the
Company’s expectation concerning production throughput and operating costs and was a key contributor to gross margin improvement in 2010.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

As noted above, the Company’s business is organized into three reportable segments, Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and Specialty Products (“SPD”). These segments are based on
differences in the nature of products and organizational and ownership structures. The businesses of these segments generally are not seasonal, although the Consumer Domestic and Consumer International segments are affected by sales of SPINBRUSH
battery-operated toothbrushes, which typically are higher during the fall, in advance of the holiday season, and sales of the depilatories and waxes product group, which typically are higher in the spring and summer months. Information concerning
the net sales, operating income and identifiable assets of each of the segments is set forth in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations,” which is Item 7 of this report.

CONSUMER PRODUCTS

Consumer Domestic

Principal Products

The Company’s founders first marketed baking soda in 1846 for use in home baking. Today, this product has a wide
variety of uses in the home, including as a refrigerator and freezer deodorizer, scratch-free cleaner and deodorizer for kitchen surfaces and cooking appliances, bath additive, dentifrice, cat litter deodorizer and swimming pool pH stabilizer. The
Company specializes in baking soda-based products, as well as other products which use the same raw materials or technology or are sold in the same markets. In addition, this segment includes other deodorizing and household cleaning products, as
well as laundry and personal care products. The following table sets forth the principal products of the Company’s Consumer Domestic segment.



Type of ProductKey Brand NamesHouseholdARM & HAMMER Pure Baking SodaARM & HAMMER and XTRA Powder and Liquid Laundry DetergentsARM & HAMMER Carpet & Room DeodorizersARM & HAMMER Cat Litter DeodorizerARM & HAMMER Clumping Cat LittersARM & HAMMER FRESH’N SOFT Fabric SoftenersARM & HAMMER Total 2-in-1 Dryer ClothsARM & HAMMER Super Washing SodaSCRUB FREE Bathroom CleanersCLEAN SHOWER Daily Shower CleanerCAMEO Aluminum & Stainless Steel CleanerSNO BOL Toilet Bowl Cleaner







Type of ProductKey Brand NamesXTRA and NICE’N FLUFFY Fabric SoftenersDELICARE Fine Fabric WashOXICLEAN Detergent and Cleaning SolutionKABOOM Cleaning ProductsORANGE GLO Cleaning ProductsFELINE PINE Cat LitterPersonal CareARM & HAMMER ToothpastesSPINBRUSH Battery-operated ToothbrushesMENTADENT Toothpaste, ToothbrushesAIM ToothpastePEPSODENT ToothpasteCLOSE-UP ToothpastePEARL DROPS Toothpolish and ToothpasteRIGIDENT Denture AdhesiveARM & HAMMER Deodorants & AntiperspirantsARRID AntiperspirantsLADY’S CHOICE AntiperspirantsTROJAN CondomsNATURALAMB CondomsCLASS ACT CondomsFIRST RESPONSE Home Pregnancy and Ovulation Test KitsANSWER Home Pregnancy and Ovulation Test KitsNAIR Depilatories, Lotions, Creams and WaxesORAJEL Oral AnalgesicsSIMPLY SALINE Nasal Saline MoisturizerCARTERS LITTLE PILLS Laxative

Household Products

In 2010, household products constituted approximately
64% of the Company’s Domestic Consumer sales and approximately 47% of the Company’s total sales.

The
ARM & HAMMER trademark was adopted in 1867. ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda remains the leading brand of baking soda in terms of consumer recognition of the brand name and reputation for quality and value. The deodorizing properties
of baking soda have led to the development of several household products. For example, the Company markets ARM & HAMMER FRIDGE FRESH, a refrigerator deodorizer equipped with a baking soda filter to keep food tasting fresher. In addition,
ARM & HAMMER Carpet and Room Deodorizer is the number one brand in the domestic carpet and room deodorizer market.

The Company’s laundry detergents constitute its largest consumer business, measured by net sales. The Company markets its
ARM & HAMMER brand laundry detergents, in both powder and liquid forms, as value products, priced at a discount from products identified by the Company as market leaders. The Company markets its XTRA laundry detergent in both powder and
liquid at a slightly lower price than ARM & HAMMER brand laundry detergents. Although the powder laundry detergent segment continued its long-term steady decline throughout 2010, ARM & HAMMER powder maintained its position as the
leading powder detergent value brand by dollar share. The Company also markets XTRA SCENTSATIONS, a highly fragranced and concentrated liquid laundry detergent, and OXICLEAN pre-wash laundry additive. OXICLEAN is the number one brand in the laundry
pre-wash additives market in the U.S. The Company markets ARM & HAMMER plus OXICLEAN liquid and powder laundry detergents, combining the benefits of these two powerful laundry detergent products. In 2010, the Company launched ARM &
HAMMER Power Gel Laundry Detergent.







The Company’s laundry products also include fabric softener sheets that prevent static
cling and soften and freshen clothes. The Company markets ARM & HAMMER FRESH ‘N SOFT liquid fabric softener and offers another liquid fabric softener, NICE’N FLUFFY, at a slightly lower price enabling the Company to compete at
several price points. The Company markets ARM & HAMMER Total 2-in-1 Dryer Cloths, a fabric softener sheet used in the clothes dryer that delivers liquid-like softening, freshening and static control.

The Company also markets a line of cat litter products, including ARM & HAMMER SUPER SCOOP clumping cat litter. Line extensions
of SUPER SCOOP include ARM & HAMMER Multi-Cat cat litter, designed for households with more than one cat, ARM & HAMMER ODOR ALERT cat litter, with crystals that change color when activated, and ARM & HAMMER ESSENTIALS
clumping cat litter, a corn-based scoopable litter made for consumers who prefer to use products made from natural ingredients. In December 2010, the Company acquired FELINE PINE brand cat litter. FELINE PINE cat litter is
the number one brand in the natural litter segment, which is the highest growth segment in the litter category. This brand will complement the Company’s existing cat litter business and position the Company as the leading supplier of
natural cat litter. In 2010, the Company launched ARM & HAMMER Double Duty Cat Litter, which eliminates both urine and feces odors on contact.

In addition, the Company markets a line of household cleaning products including CLEAN SHOWER daily shower cleaner, SCRUB FREE bathroom cleaners and SNO BOL toilet bowl cleaner. The Company also markets
KABOOM bathroom cleaner and ORANGE GLO household cleaning products.

Personal Care Products

The Company entered the personal care business using the unique strengths of its ARM & HAMMER trademark and baking soda
technology, and has expanded its presence through its acquisition of antiperspirants, oral care products, depilatories, reproductive health products, oral analgesics and nasal saline moisturizers. In 2010, Personal Care Products constituted
approximately 36% of the Company’s Consumer Domestic sales and approximately 26% of the Company’s total sales.

ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda, when used as a dentifrice, whitens and polishes teeth, removes plaque and leaves the mouth feeling
fresh and clean. These properties led to the development of a complete line of sodium bicarbonate-based dentifrice products which are marketed and sold nationally primarily under the ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE brand name.

The Company also manufactures in the United States and markets in the United States (including Puerto Rico) and Canada, CLOSE-UP,
PEPSODENT and AIM toothpastes, which are priced at a discount from the market leaders, and the MENTADENT brand of toothpaste and toothbrushes.

The Company markets ORAJEL oral analgesics, which includes products for adults as well as BABY ORAJEL Cooling Cucumber Teething Gel and BABY ORAJEL Tooth and Gum Cleanser.

The Company markets SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes in the United States (including Puerto Rico), the United Kingdom, Canada,
China and Australia. In 2010, the SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrush was the number one brand of battery-operated toothbrushes in the United States. The Company also markets SPINBRUSH Pro-Select toothbrushes, a two speed version of SPINBRUSH,
SPINBRUSH Pro-Recharge, a rechargeable toothbrush offering up to one week of power brushes between charges and SPINBRUSH Sonic, a reasonably priced high speed battery-operated toothbrush which competes with much more expensive “sonic”
toothbrushes. In September 2010, the Company acquired additional technology related to our oral care business.

The
Company’s deodorant and antiperspirant products are marketed under the ARM & HAMMER, ARRID and LADY’S CHOICE brand names.







Condoms are recognized as highly reliable contraceptives as well as an effective means of
reducing the risk of sexually transmitted diseases (“STDs”). The TROJAN condom brand has been in use for more than 90 years. In 2010, the brand continued its market share leadership in the United States with the launch of the new ECSTASY
product line and continued success of such products as EXTENDED PLEASURE, HER PLEASURE, TWISTED PLEASURE, SHARED PLEASURE, MAGNUM WITH WARM SENSATIONS, a unique lubricant system which warms the skin on contact for enhanced pleasure, and TROJAN Ultra
Thin condoms. In 2010, the Company launched TROJAN Fire and Ice Condoms. The Company also markets a series of vibrating products under the TROJAN name.

In 2010, FIRST RESPONSE continued to be the number one brand in the home pregnancy and ovulation test kit business category. The Company also markets FIRST RESPONSE Rapid Result test kit, designed to tell
a woman if she is pregnant within one minute after taking the test and ANSWER, which competes in the value segment of the home pregnancy and ovulation test kit market. The Company also markets an at-home female fertility test under the FIRST
RESPONSE brand name.

The NAIR depilatory brand is the number one depilatory brand in the United States, with innovative
products that address consumer needs for quick, complete and longer-lasting hair removal. The Company offers a full array of depilatory products for women, men and teens under the NAIR brand name.

In June 2010, the Company acquired the SIMPLY SALINE brand of nasal saline moisturizers. This brand will complement the Company’s
existing STERIMAR brand nasal saline solution business in Europe and other parts of the world.

Consumer International

The Consumer International segment markets and sells a variety of personal care products, over-the-counter and household products in
international markets, including Canada, France, Australia, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Brazil and China.

Total Consumer
International sales represented approximately 17% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2010. Canada, France and the United Kingdom accounted for 38%, 18% and 16%, respectively, of the Company’s international net sales in this segment
in 2010. No other country in which the Company operates accounts for more than 10% of its total international net sales in this segment, and no brand accounts for more than 10% of total international net sales.

Certain of the Company’s international product lines are similar to its domestic product lines. The Company markets depilatories and
waxes, home pregnancy and ovulation test kits and oral care products in most of its international markets. For example, the Company markets waxes and depilatory products in virtually all international locations, and TROJAN condoms in Canada and
Mexico.

The Company has expanded distribution of ARM & HAMMER products internationally by selling ARM &
HAMMER laundry and pet care products in Canada and ARM & HAMMER laundry care products in Mexico. The Company also markets SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes, primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada, China and Australia, and OXICLEAN,
KABOOM and ORANGE GLO products primarily in Mexico and Canada.

The Company sells PEARL DROPS products in Europe, Canada and
Australia and STERIMAR nasal hygiene products in a number of markets in Europe, Latin America and Australia.

COMPETITION FOR CONSUMER
DOMESTIC AND CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL

The Company competes in the oral care, personal care and deodorizing markets using the
strengths of its trademarks and technologies. These are highly innovative markets, characterized by a continuous flow of new products and line extensions, and requiring heavy advertising and promotion.







The domestic condom market is highly concentrated in product offerings with a limited number
of competitors. The market is divided between premium brands and price brands, with companies competing on the basis of quality, innovation and price.

The domestic depilatories and waxes market is highly concentrated with a limited number of competitors. Products compete based on their functionality, innovation and price.

Consumer products, particularly those that are value-priced, such as laundry and household cleaning products, are subject to significant
price competition. As a result, the Company may need to reduce the prices for some of its products to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share.

Internationally, the Company’s products compete in similar competitive categories.

Many of the Company’s competitors are large companies, including The Procter & Gamble Company, Sun Products Corporation,
The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Johnson & Johnson and Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc.. Many of these companies have greater
financial resources than the Company and have the capacity to outspend the Company if they attempt to gain market share.

Product introductions typically involve heavy marketing costs in the year of launch, and the Company usually is not able to determine
whether the new products and line extensions will be successful until a period of time has elapsed following the introduction of the new products or the extension of the product line.

Because of the competitive environment facing retailers, the Company faces pricing pressure from customers, particularly the high-volume
retail store customers, who have increasingly sought to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms. These concessions or terms could reduce the Company’s margins. Furthermore, if the Company is unable to maintain price or trade terms
acceptable to its trade customers, the customers could increase product purchases from competitors and reduce purchases from the Company, which would harm the Company’s sales and profitability.

DISTRIBUTION FOR CONSUMER DOMESTIC

Products in the Consumer Domestic segment are marketed throughout the United States primarily through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs,
drugstores, convenience stores, pet specialty stores and dollar stores. The Company employs a sales force based regionally throughout the United States. In each market, the sales force utilizes the services of independent food brokers, who
represent our products in the Food, Pet, Dollar and Club classes of trade. The Company’s products are stored in Company plants and public warehouses and are either delivered by independent trucking companies or picked up by
customers.

DISTRIBUTION FOR CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL

The Company’s Consumer International distribution network reflects capacity and cost considerations in the markets served. In Canada, Mexico and Australia, finished goods are warehoused internally
and shipped directly to customers through independent freight carriers. In the United Kingdom, domestic product distribution is subcontracted to professional distribution companies, while export product distribution is handled internally and shipped
from the Company’s warehouses. In France, distribution of consumer products to mass markets is handled internally while distribution of OTC products to pharmacies and professional diagnostics to laboratories is handled by outside agencies. In
Brazil and China, all product distribution is subcontracted to professional distribution companies.







Specialty Products (SPD)

Principal Products

The Company’s SPD segment focuses on sales to
businesses and participates in three product areas: Specialty Chemicals, Animal Nutrition and Specialty Cleaners. The following table sets forth the principal products of the Company’s SPD segment.



Type of ProductKey Brand NamesSpecialty ChemicalsARM & HAMMER Performance Grade Sodium BicarbonateARMAND PRODUCTS Potassium Carbonate and Potassium Bicarbonate(1)Animal NutritionARM & HAMMER Feed Grade Sodium BicarbonateMEGALAC Rumen Bypass FatSQ-810 Natural Sodium SesquicarbonateBIO-CHLOR and FERMENTEN Rumen Fermentation EnhancersDCAD Plus Feed Grade Potassium
Carbonate(2)MEGALAC R, Omega 3 & Omega 6 Essential Fatty AcidsMEGAMINE-L, Rumen Bypass LysineSpecialty CleanersCommercial & Professional Cleaners and DeodorizersARMAKLEEN Aqueous Cleaners(3)ARMEX Blast Media(3)



(1)Manufactured and marketed by Armand Products Company, an entity in which the Company holds a 50% joint venture interest.

(2)Manufactured for the Company by Armand Products Company.

(3)Distributed in North America by The ArmaKleen Company, an entity in which the Company holds a 50% joint venture interest.

Specialty Chemicals

The Company’s specialty chemicals business primarily encompasses the manufacture, marketing and sale of sodium bicarbonate in a range of grades and granulations for use in industrial markets. In
industrial markets, sodium bicarbonate is used by other manufacturing companies as a leavening agent for commercial baked goods, as an antacid in pharmaceuticals, as a carbon dioxide release agent in fire extinguishers, as an alkaline agent in
swimming pool chemicals, and as a buffer in kidney dialysis.

The Company’s 99.2% owned Brazilian subsidiary, Quimica
Geral do Nordeste (“QGN”), is South America’s leading provider of sodium bicarbonate.

The Company and
Occidental Petroleum Corporation are equal partners in a joint venture, Armand Products Company, which manufactures and markets potassium carbonate and potassium bicarbonate for sale in domestic and international markets. The potassium-based
products are used in a wide variety of applications, including agricultural products, specialty glass and ceramics, and potassium silicates. Armand Products also manufactures for the Company a potassium carbonate-based animal feed additive for
sale in the dairy industry, described below under “Animal Nutrition Products.”

Animal Nutrition Products

A special grade of sodium bicarbonate, as well as sodium sesquicarbonate, is sold to the animal feed market as a feed
additive for use by dairymen as a buffer, or antacid, for dairy cattle. The Company also markets and sells DCAD Plus feed grade potassium carbonate, which is manufactured by the Armand Products Company as a feed additive into the animal feed market.







The Company manufactures, markets and sells MEGALAC rumen bypass fat, a nutritional
supplement made from natural oils, which enables cows to maintain energy levels during the period of high milk production, resulting in improved milk yields and minimized weight loss. The product and the trademark MEGALAC are licensed under a
long-term license agreement from a British company, Volac Ltd.

The Company also manufactures, markets and sells BIO-CHLOR and
FERMENTEN, a range of specialty feed ingredients for dairy cows, which improve rumen feed efficiency and help increase milk production.

Specialty Cleaners

The Company also provides a line of cleaning and
deodorizing products for use in commercial and industrial applications such as office buildings, hotels, restaurants and other facilities.

The Company and Safety-Kleen Corporation are equal partners in a joint venture, The ArmaKleen Company, which was formed to build a specialty cleaning products business based on the Company’s
technology and Safety-Kleen’s sales and distribution organization. In North America, this joint venture distributes the Company’s proprietary product line of aqueous cleaners along with the Company’s ARMEX blast media line, which is
designed for the removal of a wide variety of surface coatings. The Company continues to pursue opportunities to build this industrial cleaning business using the Company’s aqueous-based technology as well as the ARMEX blast media line of
products.

COMPETITION FOR SPD

Competition within the specialty chemicals and animal nutrition product lines is intense. The specialty chemicals business operates in a competitive environment influenced by capacity utilization,
buyers’ leverage and the impact of raw material and energy costs. Product introductions typically involve introductory costs in the year of launch, and the Company usually is not able to determine whether new products and line extensions will
be successful until some time following the introduction of new products or the extension of the product lines.

DISTRIBUTION FOR SPD

SPD markets sodium bicarbonate and other chemicals to industrial and agricultural customers primarily throughout the United
States and Canada. Distribution is accomplished through a dedicated sales force supplemented by manufacturer’s representatives and the sales personnel of independent distributors throughout the country. The Company’s products in this
segment are located in Company plants and public warehouses and are either delivered by independent trucking companies or picked up by customers at the Company’s facilities.

RAW MATERIALS AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

The Company manufactures sodium
bicarbonate for both its consumer and specialty products businesses at its plants located at Green River, Wyoming and Old Fort, Ohio. The primary source of soda ash, a basic raw material used by the Company in the production of sodium bicarbonate is
the mineral trona, which is found in abundance in southwestern Wyoming near the Company’s Green River plant. The Company has adequate trona reserves under mineral leases to support the Company’s sodium bicarbonate requirements for the
foreseeable future.

The Company is party to a partnership agreement with General Chemical Corporation, which mines and
processes trona reserves in Wyoming. Through the partnership and related supply and services agreements, the Company fulfills a substantial amount of its soda ash requirements, enabling the Company to achieve some of the economies of an integrated
business capable of producing sodium bicarbonate and related products from the basic raw material. The Company also has an agreement for the supply of soda ash from another company. The partnership agreement and other supply agreements between the
Company and General Chemical are terminable upon two years notice by either company. The Company believes that alternative sources of supply are available.

The Company believes that ample sources of raw materials are available for all of its other major products. Detergent chemicals are used in a variety of the Company’s products and are available from
a number of sources.







Bottles, paper products and clay are available from multiple suppliers, although the Company chooses to source most of these materials from single sources under long-term supply agreements in
order to gain favorable pricing. The Company also uses a palm oil fraction in its rumen bypass fats products. Alternative sources of supply are available in case of disruption or termination of the supply agreements.

Following a raw material price decline in 2009, prices for commodities generally increased in 2010. As a result, the cost of surfactants,
diesel fuel, corrugated paper and oil-based raw and packaging materials used in the household and specialty products businesses were all higher at the end of 2010 than the 2009 average. Moreover, the price of palm fatty acid distillate (PFAD),
which generally fluctuates with the price of global vegetable oil, and latex were at record levels by the end of 2010. Additional increases in the prices of certain raw materials could materially impact the Company’s costs and financial
results if the Company is unable to pass such costs along in the form of price increases to its customers.

The Company
utilizes the services of third party contract manufacturers around the world for certain products.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

The Company’s trademarks (identified throughout this report in capitalized letters), including ARM & HAMMER, are registered
with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and also with the trademark offices of many foreign countries. The ARM & HAMMER trademark has been used by the Company since 1867, and is a valuable asset and important to the successful
operation of the Company’s business. The Company’s other valuable trademarks include TROJAN, NAIR, ORAJEL, FIRST RESPONSE, MENTADENT, CLOSE-UP, AIM, PEPSODENT, XTRA, ARRID, KABOOM, ORANGE GLO, SCRUB FREE, OXICLEAN, CLEAN SHOWER, SPINBRUSH,
SIMPLY SALINE and FELINE PINE. A United States trademark registration has a term of 10 years and is renewable every 10 years so long as the trademark is used in the regular course of trade. The Company’s portfolio of trademarks represent
substantial goodwill in the businesses using the trademarks.

United States patents are currently granted for a term of 20
years from the date the patent application is filed. Although the Company actively seeks and maintains a number of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole.

In conjunction with the 2005 acquisition of SPINBRUSH from Procter & Gamble, the Company received a royalty free license to use
the Crest tradename until October 29, 2009, and Procter & Gamble agreed to refrain from using the Crest tradename on battery-operated toothbrushes for two years thereafter. The Company completed its transition plan to remove the Crest
tradename from its SPINBRUSH products prior to termination of the license. The Company retained its position in 2010 as the number one brand in battery-operated toothbrushes but cannot predict the long-term effect that the loss of the tradename, or
any effort by Proctor & Gamble to market battery-operated toothbrushes under the Crest tradename after October 2011, will have on SPINBRUSH sales and profitability.

CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG

In each of the years ended December 31,
2010, 2009, and 2008, net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates were 23%, 22% and 22% respectively, of the Company’s total consolidated net sales. The time between receipt of orders and shipment
is generally short, and as a result, backlog is not significant.

RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT

The Company conducts research and development activities primarily at its Princeton and Cranbury facilities in New Jersey. The Company
devotes significant resources and attention to product development, process technology and basic research to develop differentiated products with new and distinctive features and to provide increased convenience and value to its customers. To
increase its innovative capabilities, the Company







engages outside contractors for general research and development in activities beyond its core areas of expertise. The Company spent $53.7 million, $55.1 million and $51.2 million on research and
development activities in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Some of the Company’s products are subject to regulation under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which is administered by the Food and
Drug Administration and the Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, which are administered by the Environmental Protection Agency. The Company also is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission in
connection with the content of its labeling, advertising, promotion, trade practices and other matters. The Company’s relationship with certain union employees may be overseen by the National Labor Relations Board. The Company’s activities
also are regulated by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which the Company sells its products.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company’s operations are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and
solid and hazardous waste management activities. The Company endeavors to take actions necessary to comply with such regulations. These steps include periodic environmental audits of each Company facility. The audits, conducted by independent
engineering firms with expertise in environmental compliance, include site visits at each location, as well as a review of documentary information, to determine compliance with such federal, state and local regulations. Other than the item noted
below, the Company believes that it is in compliance with existing environmental regulations.

In 2000, the Company acquired
majority ownership in its Brazilian subsidiary, Quimica Geral Do Nordeste S.A. (“QGN”). The acquired operations included an inorganic salt manufacturing plant which began site operations in the late 1970’s. Located on the site were
two closed landfills, two active landfills and a pond for the management of the process waste streams. In 2009, QGN was advised by environmental authorities in the State of Bahia, the Institute of the Environment (“IMA”), that the plant
was discharging contaminants into an adjacent creek. After learning of the discharge, QGN took immediate action to cease the discharge and retained two nationally recognized environmental firms to prepare a site investigation / remedial action plan
(“SI/RA”). The SI/RA report was submitted by QGN to IMA in April 2010. The report concluded that the likely sources of the discharge were the failure of the pond and closed landfills.

In November 2010, IMA responded to QGN’s recommendation for an additional study by issuing a notification requiring a broad range of
remediation measures (the “Remediation Notification”). In addition, notwithstanding repeated discussions with IMA at QGN’s request to consider QGN’s proposed remediation alternatives, in December 2010, IMA imposed a fine of
five million reals (approximately $3 million) for the discharge of contaminants above allowable limits. QGN filed with IMA an administrative defense to the fine. IMA has not yet responded to QGN’s administrative defense.

With respect to the Remediation Notification, QGN engaged in discussions with IMA during which QGN asserted that a number of the
remediation measures and the timeframes for implementation were not appropriate and requested that the Remediation Notification be withdrawn. In response, IMA stayed the Remediation Notification pending its further review. QGN intends to continue
discussions with IMA to seek agreement on a rational and appropriate remediation plan.









As a result of the foregoing events, the Company accrued approximately $3 million in
2009 and an additional $4.8 million in 2010 for remediation, fines and related costs. However, the Company cannot assure that additional costs will not be incurred in connection with this matter.

GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Approximately 79%, 81% and 78% of the Company’s net sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were to customers in the United
States. Approximately 96%, 95% and 94% of the Company’s long-lived assets were located in the United States at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Other than the United States, no one country accounts for more than 7% of
consolidated net sales and 3% of total assets.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately 3,600 employees. The Company is party to a labor contract with the International Machinists Union at its Colonial Heights, Virginia plant,
which expires May 31, 2013. Internationally, the Company employs union employees in France, Mexico, Brazil and New Zealand. The Company believes that its relations with both its union and non-union employees are satisfactory.

CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS

The Company’s operations, exclusive of unconsolidated entities, constitute three reportable segments, Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and Specialty Products (SPD). The table set forth below
shows the percentage of the Company’s net sales contributed by each group of similar products marketed by the Company during 2010, 2009 and 2008.



% of Net Sales201020092008Consumer DomesticHousehold Products47%47%45%Personal Care Products26%27%26%Consumer International17%16%17%Specialty Products10%10%12%

The table above reflects
consolidated net sales, exclusive of net sales of unconsolidated entities.

PUBLIC INFORMATION

The Company maintains a web site at www.churchdwight.com and on the “Investors—SEC Filings” page of the web site makes
available free of charge the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files these materials with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on the “Investors – Corporate
Governance” page on the Company’s website are the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for the Audit, Compensation & Organization and Governance & Nominating Committees of the Company’s Board of
Directors and the Company’s Code of Conduct. Each of the foregoing is also available in print free of charge and may be obtained upon written request to: Church & Dwight Co., Inc., 469 North Harrison Street, Princeton, New Jersey
08543, attention: Secretary. The information presented in the Company’s web site is not a part of this report and the reference to the Company’s web site is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.







