ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL

All domestic brand “rankings” contained in this report are based on dollar share rankings from AC Nielsen FDM excluding Wal-Mart for the 52 weeks ending December 26, 2009. Foreign brand
“rankings” are derived from several sources.

2009 DEVELOPMENTS

In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company completed construction and started manufacturing at its integrated laundry detergent manufacturing
plant and distribution center in York, Pennsylvania. In conjunction with the opening of the new facility, the Company closed its existing laundry detergent manufacturing plant and distribution facility in North Brunswick, New Jersey. The North
Brunswick facility was comprised of five separate buildings, which had resulted in inefficiencies and could not accommodate expansion to address expected future growth.

In September 2009, the Company and Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (“Abbott”) agreed to settle patent infringement litigation. As part of the settlement, Abbott paid $27 million to the Company. The
Company recognized a pre-tax gain, net of legal expenses, of $20.0 million as of September 2009, which is reflected in the results of the Consumer Domestic segment.

In June 2009, the Company sold certain non-core personal care product lines that it initially acquired from Del Laboratories, Inc., a subsidiary of Coty, Inc., in July 2008. (This acquisition, through
which the Company also acquired the Orajel brand of analgesics, is referred to in this report as the “Orajel Acquisition”.) The non-core product lines were sold for approximately $30 million, net of fees, which approximated book value. The
results of these product lines were included in both the Consumer Domestic and Consumer International Segments during the period from July 2008 until the completion of the sale in June 2009.







FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

As noted above, the Company’s business is organized into three reportable segments, Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and
Specialty Products (“SPD”). These segments are based on differences in the nature of products and organizational and ownership structures. The businesses of these segments generally are not seasonal, although the Consumer Domestic and
Consumer International segments are affected by sales of SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes, which typically are higher during the fall, in advance of the holiday season, and sales of the depilatories and waxes product group, which typically
are higher in the spring and summer months. Information concerning the net sales, operating income and identifiable assets of each of the segments is set forth in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report and in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which is Item 7 of this report.

CONSUMER PRODUCTS

Consumer Domestic

Principal Products

The Company’s founders first marketed baking soda
in 1846 for use in home baking. Today, this product has a wide variety of uses in the home, including as a refrigerator and freezer deodorizer, scratch-free cleaner and deodorizer for kitchen surfaces and cooking appliances, bath additive,
dentifrice, cat litter deodorizer and swimming pool pH stabilizer. The Company specializes in baking soda-based products, as well as other products which use the same raw materials or technology or are sold in the same markets. In addition, this
segment includes other deodorizing and household cleaning products, as well as laundry and personal care products. The following table sets forth the principal products of the Company’s Consumer Domestic segment.



Type of ProductKey Brand NamesHouseholdARM & HAMMER Pure Baking SodaARM & HAMMER Carpet & Room DeodorizersARM & HAMMER Cat Litter DeodorizerARM & HAMMER Clumping Cat LittersBRILLO Soap PadsSCRUB FREE Bathroom CleanersCLEAN SHOWER Daily Shower CleanerCAMEO Aluminum & Stainless Steel CleanerSNO BOL Toilet Bowl CleanerARM & HAMMER and XTRA Powder and Liquid Laundry DetergentsXTRA and NICE’N FLUFFY Fabric SoftenersARM & HAMMER FRESH’N SOFT Fabric SoftenersDELICARE Fine Fabric WashARM & HAMMER Super Washing SodaOXICLEAN Detergent and Cleaning SolutionKABOOM Cleaning ProductsORANGE GLO Cleaning ProductsPersonal CareARM & HAMMER ToothpastesSPINBRUSH Battery-operated ToothbrushesMENTADENT Toothpaste, ToothbrushesAIM ToothpastePEPSODENT ToothpasteCLOSE-UP ToothpastePEARL DROPS Toothpolish and ToothpasteRIGIDENT Denture AdhesiveARM & HAMMER Deodorants & Antiperspirants







Type of ProductKey Brand NamesARRID AntiperspirantsLADY’S CHOICE AntiperspirantsTROJAN CondomsNATURALAMB CondomsCLASS ACT CondomsFIRST RESPONSE Home Pregnancy and Ovulation Test KitsANSWER Home Pregnancy and Ovulation Test KitsNAIR Depilatories, Lotions, Creams and WaxesCARTERS LITTLE PILLS LaxativeORAJEL Oral Analgesics

Household
Products

In 2009, household products constituted approximately 64% of the Company’s Domestic Consumer sales and
approximately 47% of the Company’s total sales.

The ARM & HAMMER trademark was adopted in 1867.
ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda remains the leading brand of baking soda in terms of consumer recognition of the brand name and reputation for quality and value. The deodorizing properties of baking soda have led to the development of several
household products. For example, the Company markets ARM & HAMMER FRIDGE FRESH, a refrigerator deodorizer equipped with both a baking soda filter to keep food tasting fresher and an indicator to tell the consumer when the product needs to
be replaced. In addition, ARM & HAMMER Carpet and Room Deodorizer is the number two brand in the domestic carpet and room deodorizer market.

The Company’s laundry detergents constitute its largest consumer business, measured by net sales. The Company markets its ARM & HAMMER brand laundry detergents, in both powder and liquid
forms, as value products, priced at a discount from products identified by the Company as market leaders. The Company markets its XTRA laundry detergent in both powder and liquid at a slightly lower price than ARM & HAMMER brand laundry
detergents. Although the powder laundry detergent segment continued its long-term steady decline throughout 2009, ARM & HAMMER powder maintained its position as the leading powder detergent value brand by dollar share. The Company also
markets XTRA SCENTSATIONS, a highly fragranced and concentrated liquid laundry detergent. The Company also markets OXICLEAN pre-wash laundry additive. OXICLEAN is the number one brand in the laundry pre-wash additives market in the U.S. The Company
markets ARM & HAMMER plus OXICLEAN liquid and powder laundry detergents, combining the benefits of these two powerful laundry detergent products.

The Company’s laundry products also include fabric softener sheets that prevent static cling and soften and freshen clothes. The Company markets ARM & HAMMER FRESH ‘N SOFT liquid fabric
softener and offers another liquid fabric softener, NICE’N FLUFFY, at a slightly lower price enabling the Company to compete at several price points. In 2009, the Company launched ARM & HAMMER Total 2-in-1 Dryer Cloths, a fabric
softener sheet used in the clothes dryer that delivers liquid-like softening, freshening and static control.

The Company
markets a line of cat litter products, including ARM & HAMMER SUPER SCOOP clumping cat litter. Line extensions of SUPER SCOOP include ARM & HAMMER Multi-Cat cat litter, designed for households with more than one cat, ARM &
HAMMER ODOR ALERT cat litter, with crystals that change color when activated, and ARM & HAMMER ESSENTIALS clumping cat litter, a corn-based scoopable litter made for consumers who prefer to use products made from natural ingredients. The
Company intends to continue to innovate and offer new products under the ARM & HAMMER brand in the household and pet care categories.

The Company markets a line of household cleaning products including CLEAN SHOWER daily shower cleaner, SCRUB FREE bathroom cleaners and SNO BOL toilet bowl cleaner. The Company also markets KABOOM
bathroom cleaner and ORANGE GLO household cleaning products.







Personal Care Products

The Company entered the personal care business using the unique strengths of its ARM & HAMMER trademark and baking soda technology,
and has expanded its presence through its acquisition of antiperspirants, oral care products, depilatories, reproductive health products and oral analgesics. The personal care market is highly innovative and is characterized by a continuous flow of
new products and line extensions and intense competition, requiring heavy advertising and promotion. In 2009, Personal Care Products constituted approximately 36% of the Company’s Consumer Domestic sales and approximately 27% of the
Company’s total sales.

ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda, when used as a dentifrice, whitens and polishes teeth, removes
plaque and leaves the mouth feeling fresh and clean. These properties led to the development of a complete line of sodium bicarbonate-based dentifrice products which are marketed and sold nationally primarily under the ARM & HAMMER DENTAL
CARE brand name.

The Company also manufactures in the United States and markets in the United States (including Puerto Rico)
and Canada, CLOSE-UP, PEPSODENT and AIM toothpaste, which are priced at a discount from the market leaders, and the MENTADENT brand of toothpaste and toothbrushes.

In 2008, the Company purchased and began marketing ORAJEL oral analgesics. In 2009, the Company added two new ORAJEL products to its portfolio, BABY ORAJEL Cooling Cucumber Teething Gel and BABY ORAJEL
Tooth and Gum Cleanser.

The Company markets SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes in the United States (including Puerto
Rico), the United Kingdom, Canada, China and Australia. In 2009, the SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrush was the number one brand of battery-operated toothbrushes in the United States. The Company also markets SPINBRUSH Pro-Select toothbrushes, a
two speed version of SPINBRUSH, and SPINBRUSH Pro-Recharge, a rechargeable toothbrush offering up to one week of power brushes between charges. In 2009, the company introduced SPINBRUSH Sonic, a reasonably priced high speed battery-operated
toothbrush which competes with much more expensive “sonic” toothbrushes.

The Company’s deodorant and
antiperspirant products are marketed under the ARM & HAMMER, ARRID and LADY’S CHOICE brand names.

Condoms are recognized as highly reliable contraceptives as well as an effective means of reducing the risk of sexually transmitted diseases (“STDs”). The TROJAN condom brand has been in use for more than 80 years. In 2009, the
brand continued its market share leadership in the United States with the launch of the new Ecstasy product line and continued success of such products as EXTENDED PLEASURE, HER PLEASURE, TWISTED PLEASURE, SHARED PLEASURE, MAGNUM WITH WARM
SENSATIONS, a unique lubricant system which warms the skin on contact for enhanced pleasure, TROJAN Ultra Thin condoms and an expanded line of vibrating rings. The Company also launched a series of vibrating products under the TROJAN name.

In 2009, FIRST RESPONSE continues to be the number one brand in the home pregnancy and ovulation test kit business category.
The Company also markets FIRST RESPONSE Rapid Result test kit, designed to tell a woman if she is pregnant within one minute after taking the test and ANSWER, which competes in the value segment of the home pregnancy and ovulation test kit market.
In 2009, the Company launched an at-home female fertility test under the FIRST RESPONSE brand name.

The NAIR depilatory brand
is the number one brand in the United States, with innovative products that address consumer needs for quick, complete and longer-lasting hair removal. The Company offers a full array of depilatory products ranging for women, men and teens under the
NAIR brand name.







Consumer International

The Consumer International segment markets and sells a variety of personal care products, over-the-counter and household products in international markets, including France, the United Kingdom, Canada,
Mexico, Australia, Brazil and China.

Total Consumer International sales represented approximately 16% of the Company’s
consolidated net sales in 2009. Canada, France and the United Kingdom accounted for 36%, 20% and 16%, respectively, of the Company’s international net sales in this segment in 2009. No other country in which the Company operates accounts for
more than 10% of its total international net sales in this segment, and no brand accounts for more than approximately 10% of total international net sales.

Certain of the Company’s international product lines are similar to its domestic product lines. The Company markets depilatories and waxes, home pregnancy and ovulation test kits and oral care
products in most of its international markets. For example, the Company markets waxes and depilatory products in France, the United Kingdom, Canada, Mexico, Brazil and Australia, and TROJAN condoms in Canada, Mexico and China.

The Company has expanded distribution of ARM & HAMMER products internationally by selling ARM & HAMMER laundry and pet
care products in Canada and ARM & HAMMER laundry care products in Mexico. The Company also markets SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes, primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada, China, Australia and Japan, and OXICLEAN, KABOOM and ORANGE
GLO products primarily in Mexico and Canada.

The Company sells PEARL DROPS products in Europe, Canada and Australia and
STERIMAR nasal hygiene products in a number of markets in Europe, Latin America, Canada and Australia.

COMPETITION FOR CONSUMER DOMESTIC AND
CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL

The Company competes in the oral care, personal care and deodorizing markets using the strengths of its
trademarks and technologies. These are highly innovative markets, characterized by a continuous flow of new products and line extensions, and requiring heavy advertising and promotion.

The domestic condom market is highly concentrated in product offerings with a limited number of competitors. The market is divided between
premium brands and price brands, with companies competing on the basis of quality, innovation and price.

The domestic
depilatories and waxes market is highly concentrated with a limited number of competitors. Products compete based on their functionality, innovation and price.

Internationally, the Company’s products compete in similar competitive categories.

Many of the Company’s competitors are large companies, including The Procter & Gamble Company, Sun Products Corporation, The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Henkel AG &
Co. KGaA, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Johnson & Johnson, Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. and SSL International plc. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than the Company and have the capacity to outspend the Company
if they attempt to gain market share.

Consumer products, particularly those that are value-priced, such as laundry and
household cleaning products, are subject to significant price competition. From time to time, the Company may need to reduce the prices for some of its products to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share.

Product introductions typically involve heavy marketing costs in the year of launch, and the Company usually is not able to
determine whether the new products and line extensions will be successful until a period of time has elapsed following the introduction of the new products or the extension of the product line.







Because of the competitive environment facing retailers, the Company faces pricing pressure
from customers, particularly the high-volume retail store customers, who have increasingly sought to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms. These concessions or terms could reduce the Company’s margins. Furthermore, if the Company is
unable to maintain price or trade terms acceptable to its trade customers, the customers could increase product purchases from competitors and reduce purchases from the Company, which would harm the Company’s sales and profitability.

DISTRIBUTION FOR CONSUMER DOMESTIC

Products in the Consumer Domestic segment are primarily marketed throughout the United States through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs,
drugstores, convenience stores, pet specialty stores and dollar stores. The Company employs a sales force based regionally throughout the United States. In each market, the sales force utilizes the services of independent food brokers, who
represent our products in the Food, Pet, Dollar and Club classes of trade. The Company’s products are stored in Company plants and public warehouses and are either delivered by independent trucking companies or picked up by
customers.

DISTRIBUTION FOR CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL

The Company’s Consumer International distribution network reflects capacity and cost considerations in the markets served. In Canada, Mexico and Australia, finished goods are warehoused internally
and shipped directly to customers through independent freight carriers. In the United Kingdom, Brazil and China, all product distribution is subcontracted to professional distribution companies. In France, distribution of consumer products to mass
markets is handled internally while distribution of OTC products to pharmacies and professional diagnostics to laboratories is handled by outside agencies.

Specialty Products (SPD)

Principal Products

The Company’s SPD segment focuses on sales to businesses and participates in three product areas: Specialty Chemicals, Animal Nutrition
and Specialty Cleaners. The following table sets forth the principal products of the Company’s SPD segment.



Type of ProductKey Brand NamesSpecialty ChemicalsARM & HAMMER Performance Grade Sodium BicarbonateARMAND PRODUCTS Potassium Carbonate and Potassium Bicarbonate(1)Animal NutritionARM & HAMMER Feed Grade Sodium BicarbonateMEGALAC Rumen Bypass FatSQ-810 Natural Sodium SesquicarbonateBIO-CHLOR and FERMENTEN Rumen Fermentation EnhancersDCAD Plus Feed Grade Potassium Carbonate(2)MEGALAC R, Omega 3 & Omega 6 Essential Fatty AcidsMEGAMINE-L, Rumen Bypass LysineSpecialty CleanersCommercial & Professional Cleaners and DeodorizersARMAKLEEN Aqueous Cleaners(3)ARMEX Blast Media(3)



(1)Manufactured and marketed by Armand Products Company, an entity in which the Company holds a 50% joint venture interest.

(2)Manufactured for the Company by Armand Products Company.

(3)Distributed in North America by The ArmaKleen Company, an entity in which the Company holds a 50% joint venture interest.







Specialty Chemicals

The Company’s specialty chemicals business primarily encompasses the manufacture, marketing and sale of sodium bicarbonate in a range of
grades and granulations for use in industrial markets. In industrial markets, sodium bicarbonate is used by other manufacturing companies as a leavening agent for commercial baked goods, as an antacid in pharmaceuticals, as a carbon dioxide release
agent in fire extinguishers, as an alkaline agent in swimming pool chemicals, and as a buffer in kidney dialysis.

The
Company’s 99.5% owned Brazilian subsidiary, Quimica Geral do Nordeste (“QGN”), is South America’s leading provider of sodium bicarbonate.

The Company and Occidental Petroleum Corporation are equal partners in a joint venture, Armand Products Company, which manufactures and markets potassium carbonate and potassium bicarbonate for sale in
domestic and international markets. The potassium-based products are used in a wide variety of applications, including agricultural products, specialty glass and ceramics, and potassium silicates. Armand Products also manufactures for the
Company a potassium carbonate-based animal feed additive for sale in the dairy industry.

Animal Nutrition Products

A special grade of sodium bicarbonate, as well as sodium sesquicarbonate, is sold to the animal feed market as a feed additive
for use by dairymen as a buffer, or antacid, for dairy cattle. The Company also markets and sells DCAD Plus feed grade potassium carbonate, which is manufactured by the Armand Products Company as a feed additive into the animal feed market.

The Company manufactures, markets and sells MEGALAC rumen bypass fat, a nutritional supplement made from natural oils, which
enables cows to maintain energy levels during the period of high milk production, resulting in improved milk yields and minimized weight loss. The product and the trademark MEGALAC are licensed under a long-term license agreement from a British
company, Volac Ltd.

The Company also manufactures, markets and sells BIO-CHLOR and FERMENTEN, a range of specialty feed
ingredients for dairy cows, which improve rumen feed efficiency and help increase milk production.

Specialty Cleaners

The Company also provides a line of cleaning and deodorizing products for use in commercial and industrial applications such
as office buildings, hotels, restaurants and other facilities.

The Company and Safety-Kleen Corporation are equal partners in
a joint venture, The ArmaKleen Company, which was formed to build a specialty cleaning products business based on the Company’s technology and Safety-Kleen’s sales and distribution organization. In North America, this joint venture
distributes the Company’s proprietary product line of aqueous cleaners along with the Company’s ARMEX blast media line, which is designed for the removal of a wide variety of surface coatings. The Company continues to pursue opportunities
to build this industrial cleaning business using the Company’s aqueous-based technology as well as the ARMEX blast media line of products.

COMPETITION FOR SPD

Competition within the specialty chemicals and animal nutrition product lines is intense. The
specialty chemicals business operates in a competitive environment influenced by capacity utilization, buyers’ leverage and the impact of raw material and energy costs. Product introductions typically involve introductory costs in the year of
launch, and the Company usually is not able to determine whether new products and line extensions will be successful until some time following the introduction of new products or the extension of the product lines.







DISTRIBUTION FOR SPD

SPD markets sodium bicarbonate and other chemicals to industrial and agricultural customers primarily throughout the United States and Canada. Distribution is accomplished through a dedicated sales force
supplemented by manufacturer’s representatives and the sales personnel of independent distributors throughout the country. The Company’s products in this segment are located in Company plants and public warehouses and are either delivered
by independent trucking companies or picked up by customers at the Company’s facilities.

RAW MATERIALS AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

The Company manufactures sodium bicarbonate for both its consumer and specialty products businesses at its plants located at
Green River, Wyoming and Old Fort, Ohio. The primary source of soda ash, a basic raw material used by the Company in the production of sodium bicarbonate is the mineral trona, which is found in abundance in southwestern Wyoming near the
Company’s Green River plant. The Company has adequate trona reserves under mineral leases to support the Company’s sodium bicarbonate requirements for the foreseeable future.

The Company is party to a partnership agreement with General Chemical Corporation, which mines and processes trona reserves in Wyoming.
Through the partnership and related supply and services agreements, the Company fulfills a substantial amount of its soda ash requirements, enabling the Company to achieve some of the economies of an integrated business capable of producing sodium
bicarbonate and related products from the basic raw material. The Company also has an agreement for the supply of soda ash from another company. The partnership agreement and other supply agreements between the Company and General Chemical are
terminable upon two years notice by either company. The Company believes that alternative sources of supply are available.

The Company believes that ample sources of raw materials are available for all of its other major products. Detergent chemicals are used in a variety of the Company’s products and are available from a number of sources. Bottles, paper
products and clay are available from multiple suppliers, although the Company chooses to source most of these materials from single sources under long-term supply agreements in order to gain favorable pricing. The Company also uses a palm oil
fraction in its rumen bypass fats products. Alternative sources of supply are available in case of disruption or termination of the supply agreements.

Continuing a trend that began in 2005, the cost of raw materials in 2009 began at historical highs, although by the end of 2009 the cost of many of these raw materials retreated from these highs. As a
result, the cost of surfactants, diesel fuel, corrugated paper and oil-based raw and packaging materials used in the household and specialty products businesses were all lower at the end of 2009 than the 2008 average. Moreover, the price of palm
fatty acid distillate (PFAD), which generally fluctuates with the price of global vegetable oil, was on average at the same level as 2008 but had fallen by the end of 2009. The Company also benefitted in 2009 from savings realized in cost
improvement programs. Despite a second half reduction in the cost of most commodities, some commodities continued to rise in price. Additional increases in the prices of certain raw materials could materially impact the Company’s costs and
financial results if the Company is unable to pass such costs along in the form of price increases to its customers.

The
Company utilizes the services of third party contract manufacturers for certain products, including SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes that are made by two contract manufacturers located in China since the brand was acquired in October 2005.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

The Company’s trademarks (identified throughout this report in capitalized letters), including ARM & HAMMER, are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and also with
the trademark offices of many foreign countries. The ARM & HAMMER trademark has been used by the Company since 1867, and is a valuable asset and important to the successful operation of the Company’s business. The Company’s







other valuable trademarks include TROJAN, NAIR, ORAJEL, FIRST RESPONSE, MENTADENT, CLOSE-UP, AIM, PEPSODENT, XTRA, BRILLO, ARRID, KABOOM, ORANGE GLO, SCRUB FREE, OXICLEAN, CLEAN SHOWER and
SPINBRUSH. United States trademark registrations have a term of 10 years and are renewable every 10 years so long as the trademarks are used in the regular course of trade. The Company’s portfolio of trademarks represent substantial goodwill in
the businesses using the trademarks.

United States patents are currently granted for a term of 20 years from the date the
patent application is filed. Although the Company actively seeks and maintains a number of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole.

In conjunction with the 2005 SPINBRUSH acquisition from Procter & Gamble, the Company received a royalty free license to use the Crest tradename until October 29, 2009 and Procter &
Gamble agreed to refrain from using the Crest tradename on battery-operated toothbrushes for two years thereafter. The Company completed its transition plan to remove the Crest tradename from its SPINBRUSH products prior to termination of the
license. The Company retained its position in 2009 as the number one brand in battery-operated toothbrushes but cannot predict the long-term effect that the loss of the tradename will have on SPINBRUSH sales and profitability.

CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG

In each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates were 22% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales. The time between
receipt of orders and shipment is generally short, and as a result, backlog is not significant.

RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT

The Company conducts research and development activities primarily at its Princeton and Cranbury facilities in New Jersey.
The Company devotes significant resources and attention to product development, process technology and basic research to develop differentiated products with new and distinctive features and to provide increased convenience and value to its
customers. To increase its innovative capabilities, the Company engages outside contractors for general research and development in activities beyond its core areas of expertise. The Company spent $55.1 million, $51.2 million and $49.8 million on
research and development activities in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Some of the Company’s products are subject to regulation under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which is administered by the Food and
Drug Administration and the Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, which are administered by the Environmental Protection Agency. The Company also is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission in
connection with the content of its labeling, advertising, promotion, trade practices and other matters. The Company’s relationship with certain union employees may be overseen by the National Labor Relations Board. The Company’s activities
also are regulated by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which the Company sells its products.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company’s operations are subject to federal, state and local regulations
governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and solid and hazardous waste management activities. The Company endeavors to take actions necessary to comply with such regulations. These steps include periodic environmental audits of each Company
facility. The audits, conducted by independent engineering firms with expertise in environmental compliance, include site visits at each location, as well as a review of documentary information, to determine compliance with such federal, state and
local regulations. The Company believes that its compliance with existing environmental regulations will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s earnings or competitive position. No material capital expenditures relating to
environmental control or remediation are presently anticipated.







GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Approximately 81%, 78% and 78% of the Company’s net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were to customers in the United States. Approximately 95%, 94% and 92% of the Company’s long-lived
assets were located in the United States at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other than the United States, no one country accounts for more than 6% of consolidated net sales and 3% of total assets.

EMPLOYEES

At
December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately 3,700 employees. The Company is party to a labor contract with the United Industrial Workers of North America at its London, Ohio plant, which expires on November 30, 2010, and with the
International Machinists Union at its Colonial Heights, Virginia plant, which expires May 31, 2010. Internationally, the Company employs union employees in France, Brazil and New Zealand. The Company believes that its relations with
both its union and non-union employees are satisfactory.

CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS

The Company’s operations, exclusive of unconsolidated entities, constitute three reportable segments, Consumer Domestic, Consumer
International and Specialty Products (SPD). The table set forth below shows the percentage of the Company’s net sales contributed by each group of similar products marketed by the Company during 2009, 2008 and 2007.



% of Net Sales200920082007Consumer DomesticHousehold Products47%45%45%Personal Care Products27%26%25%Consumer International16%17%18%Specialty Products10%12%12%

The table
above reflects consolidated net sales, exclusive of net sales of unconsolidated entities.

PUBLIC INFORMATION

The Company maintains a web site at www.churchdwight.com and makes available free of charge on this web site the Company’s annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably
practicable after the Company electronically files these materials with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on the Company’s website are the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for
the Audit, Compensation & Organization and Governance & Nominating Committees of the Company’s Board of Directors and the Company’s Code of Conduct. Each of the foregoing is also available in print free of charge and may
be obtained upon written request to: Church & Dwight Co., Inc., 469 North Harrison Street, Princeton, New Jersey 08543, attention: Secretary. The information presented in the Company’s web site is not a part of this report and the
reference to the Company’s web site is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.



