Item 1.Business

General

We are the fifth largest facilities-based wireless telecommunications provider in the United States measured by the number of subscribers served. We offer wireless broadband mobile services under the
MetroPCS®brand in selected major metropolitan areas in the United States. We provide a variety of wireless
communications services to our subscribers on a no long-term contract, paid-in-advance basis. As of December 31, 2010, we had over 8.1 million subscribers.

MetroPCS Communications, Inc., or MetroPCS Communications, was incorporated in 2004 by MetroPCS, Inc. in the state of Delaware and MetroPCS Communications maintains its corporate headquarters in
Richardson, Texas. In April 2007, MetroPCS Communications consummated an initial public offering of its common stock and became listed for trading on The New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PCS.”

Our web site address iswww.metropcs.com. Information contained on, or accessible from, our web site is not incorporated by
reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report or any other filing we make with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We file with, or furnish to, the SEC, all our periodic
filings and reports, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, as well as other information. All of our filings with the SEC are available free of charge through
the Investor Relations page of our web site as soon as practicable after filing or providing such information to the SEC. Copies of any of our filings with the SEC may also be requested, without charge, by sending a written request to Investor
Relations, MetroPCS Communications, Inc., 2250 Lakeside Blvd., Richardson, Texas 75082.

Business Overview

®

Competitive Strengths

We believe our business model has the following competitive
strengths that distinguish us from our principal wireless competitors:



•Our Service Plans.  We currently offer our services predominately on a no long-term contract, paid-in-advance, flat-rate, unlimited
usage basis. Starting in January 2010, we began offering our services using rate plans that include all applicable taxes and regulatory fees. We believe we offer a compelling value proposition to our customers through our service offerings that in
most instances allow unlimited usage from within our service area for a low flat rate. Our average per minute cost to our customers for our service plans is significantly lower than the average per minute cost of other traditional wireless broadband
mobile carriers. We believe our low average cost per minute has positioned, and will continue to position, us very well for the growing trend of wireline displacement.







•Our Densely Populated Markets.The aggregate population density in and around the metropolitan areas we currently serve over our
networks is substantially higher than the national average. We believe the high relative population density of the metropolitan areas our networks serve results in increased efficiencies in network deployment, operations and product distribution.



•Our Cost Leadership Position.We believe we have one of the lowest costs of any of the providers of wireless broadband mobile
services in the United States, which allows us to offer our services predominately on a flat-rate unlimited basis at affordable prices while maintaining cash profits per subscriber as a percentage of revenue per subscriber that we believe are among
the highest in the wireless broadband mobile services industry. We currently are the fifth largest facilities-based mobile wireless broadband mobile services provider in the United States measured by number of subscribers served, and we have, and we
believe we will continue to enjoy, economies of scale as we continue to increase the number of subscribers we serve.



•Our Spectrum Portfolio.As of December 31, 2010, we hold licenses for wireless spectrum covering a population of approximately
142 million people in and around many of the largest metropolitan areas in the United States.



•Our Advanced Networks.We utilize CDMA and 4G LTE networks that are designed to provide the capacity necessary to satisfy the usage
requirements of our customers. We believe CDMA and 4G LTE technology provides us with substantially more voice and data capacity per MHz of spectrum than other commonly deployed wireless broadband mobile technologies.

Business Strategy

We believe the
following components of our business strategy provide a foundation for our continued growth:



•Target underserved customer segments in our markets.We target a mass market that we believe has been largely underserved
historically by traditional wireless broadband mobile carriers. Our recent customer surveys indicate that over 60% of our customers use our service as their primary phone service and that only 36% of our customers say they have a landline telephone
in addition to their MetroPCS phone, which we believe is evidence that our services are gaining acceptance as a substitute for landline service.



•Offer predictable, affordable and flexible service plans.We plan to continue to focus on increasing the value provided to our
subscribers by offering predictable, affordable and flexible service plans. In January 2010, we introduced a new family of unlimited service plans that include all applicable taxes and regulatory fees for a flat rate. In January 2011, we introduced
new 4G LTE service plans that allow subscribers to enjoy voice, text and web access services at fixed monthly rates starting as low as $40 per month.



•Remain one of the lowest cost wireless service providers in the United States.We plan to continue to focus on controlling our
costs to allow us to remain one of the lowest cost providers of wireless broadband mobile services in the United States.



•Expand our markets.We plan to continue to focus on expanding in and around the metropolitan areas we currently serve, which
may require us to acquire or gain access to additional spectrum or enter into or expand our roaming arrangements with other wireless carriers beyond those in which our customers currently can receive service. We also may in the future pursue means,
other than purchasing or leasing spectrum, to expand into new metropolitan areas.



•Continue to invest in our networks.We plan to continue to make significant capital improvements to our network in order to
offer our subscribers competitive and technologically-advanced services, including enhanced data services, location based services and digital technology as they become increasingly available. We introduced the first commercial 4G LTE service in the
United States in our Las Vegas and Dallas/Fort Worth metropolitan areas in September 2010 and subsequently have launched commercial 4G LTE service in certain additional metropolitan areas we already served with our CDMA network.







•Offer nationwide voice, text and web services.Beginning in January 2010, all unlimited service plans we offer to new
subscribers include nationwide voice, text and web access services for a flat rate inclusive of applicable taxes and regulatory fees. In order to do so, we have entered into, and plan to enter into or expand in the future, roaming agreements with
other wireless broadband mobile service providers that allow our subscribers to receive services when they are outside the areas we currently serve with our networks.

Products and Services

We provide mobile broadband
services under the MetroPCS®brand. In January 2010, we introduced a new family of service plans, which include
all applicable taxes and regulatory fees and offering nationwide voice, text and web access services on an unlimited, no long-term contract, paid-in-advance, flat rate basis beginning at $40 per month. For an additional $5 to $20 per month, our
customers may select alternative service plans that offer additional features on an unlimited basis. In January 2011, we introduced new 4G LTE service plans that allow subscribers to enjoy voice, text and web access services at fixed monthly rates
starting as low as $40 per month. For additional usage fees, we also provide certain other value-added services. All our service plans are “paid-in-advance” and do not require a long-term service contract. We provide the following products
and services:



•Voice Services.Our voice services allow customers to place voice calls to, and receive calls from, any telephone in the world,
including local, domestic long distance, and international calls. Our services also allow customers to receive and make calls while they are located in areas served by our networks and in geographic areas served by certain other wireless broadband
mobile carriers through roaming arrangements we have with them.



•Data Services.Our data services include text messaging services (domestic and international); multimedia messaging services; mobile
Internet access; mobile instant messaging; location based services; social networking services; push e-mail; multimedia streaming and downloads; and services provided, depending on the network and locale, through the Binary Runtime Environment for
Wireless, or BREW, Blackberry, Windows, and the Android platforms, such as ringtones, ring back tones, games and content applications.



•Custom Calling Features.We offer custom calling features, including caller ID, call waiting, three-way calling and voicemail.



•Advanced Handsets.We sell a variety of feature phones, and increasingly, smartphones manufactured by nationally recognized
manufacturers for use on our network, including models that have cameras, can browse the Internet, play music, play streaming audio, display streaming and downloaded video, and have other features facilitating digital data. We sell a variety of
handsets using vendor or handset specific operating systems, such as BREW, Blackberry, Windows, and the Android operating system.

Service Areas

Our strategy has been to offer our services in major
metropolitan markets and surrounding areas. We commenced providing commercial service in the first quarter of 2002. We launched service in our current major metropolitan areas as follows:



•Miami, Atlanta and Sacramento in the first quarter of 2002

•San Francisco in September 2002

•Tampa/Sarasota in October 2005

•Dallas/Ft. Worth in March 2006

•Detroit in April 2006

•Orlando and portions of northern Florida in November 2006

•Los Angeles in September 2007

•Las Vegas in March 2008

•Philadelphia in July 2008

•New York and Boston in February 2009







The table below provides an overview of the larger metropolitan areas and surrounding areas
in which we hold licenses to spectrum, including the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, licensed geographic area, the amount of broadband wireless spectrum held and the related megahertz available in that particular licensed area.



Metropolitan AreaLicensed AreaMHzBoston:Boston-Worcester,MA/NH/RI/VT(8)BEA00322New London-Norwich, CT(8)BTA31920Connecticut 2 – Windham(8)CMA35830Providence-Pawtucket, RI – Bedford-Fall River, MA(8)BTA36420Worcester-Fitchburg-Leominster, MA(8)BTA48020California:Northern California:San Fran.-Oak.-S.J., CA(1)BTA40430Sacramento, CA(1)BTA38940Stockton, CA(1)BTA43440Modesto, CA(1)BTA30325Salinas-Monterey, CA(1)BTA39740Redding, CA(1)BTA37140Merced, CA(1)BTA29125Chico-Oroville, CA(1)BTA07940Eureka, CA(1)BTA13425Yuba City-Marysville, CA(1)BTA48540California 9 – Mendocino(1)CMA34430Southern California:Los Angeles, CA(1)BTA26220California 5 – San Luis Obispo(1)CMA34030Bakersfield, CA(1)BTA02820Santa Barbara, CA(1) (6)REA 620Dallas/Ft. Worth:Dallas/Ft. Worth, TXREA 5(2)BTA101(3)1010Sherman-Denison, TX(4)(10)BTA41820Shreveport-Bossier City, LA-AR(5)REA 520Waco, TX(10)CMA19430Longview-Marshall, TX(5)REA 510Tyler, TX(5)REA 510Lufkin-Nacogdoches, TXBTA26510Abilene, TX(5)REA 510Detroit:Detroit, MIBTA112BEA0571010Grand Rapids-Muskegon-Holland, MIBEA06210Michigan 9 – Cass, MICMA48020Florida:Central and Northern Florida:Tampa-St. Petersburg, FLBEA034BTA4401010Sarasota-Bradenton, FLBTA408BEA0331010Daytona Beach, FLBTA10710Ocala, FLBTA326CMA2451020Jacksonville, FLBTA21220

Metropolitan AreaLicensed AreaMHzLakeland-Winter Haven, FLBTA23920Melbourne-Titusville, FLBTA28920Gainesville, FLBTA15910Orlando, FLBEA030BTA3361010Tallahassee, FL-GABEA03510Florida 6 – DixieCMA36520Florida 7 – HamiltonCMA36620Florida 8 – JeffersonCMA36720Florida 9 – CalhounCMA36820South Florida:Miami-Fort Lauderdale, FLBTA29330West Palm Beach, FLBTA46930Fort Myers, FLBTA151BEA0323010Fort Pierce-Vero Beach, FLBTA15230Naples, FLBTA31330Florida 1 – CollierCMA36020Florida 2 – GladesCMA36120Florida 11 – MonroeCMA37020Georgia:Atlanta, GABTA02420Gainesville, GABTA16030Athens, GABTA02220Albany, GABEA03710Augusta-Aiken, GA-SCBEA02710Macon, GABEA03810Georgia 1- WhitfieldCMA37120Georgia 2 – DawsonCMA37220Georgia 3 – ChattoogaCMA37320Georgia 4 – JasperCMA37420Georgia 13 – EarlyCMA38320Las Vegas:Las Vegas, NV-AZ-UT(1)BEA 15320New York:New York-No. New Jer.-LongIsland, NY-NJ-CT-PA-MA-VT(8)BEA01020Albany-Schenectady-Troy, NY(8)BEA00520New Jersey 1 – Hunterdon(8)CMA55030New Jersey 3 – Sussex(8)CMA55230Philadelphia:Philadelphia, PA(7)EA1210Other Regional Spectrum(8):Northeast(9)REA 110West(9)REA 610






(1)Includes 10 MHz of spectrum from West REA 6 (WQGA732).

(2)Comprised of 127 counties out of 204 counties under the REA 5.

(3)Includes 11 of 25 counties in BTA101.

(4)Comprised of Grayson and Fannin counties only.

(5)Counties are covered under REA 5.

(6)Santa Barbara County portion of West REA 006 (WQMM379).

(7)Spectrum licensed as part of Northeast REA 1.

(8)Includes 10 MHz of spectrum from Northeast REA 1 (WQGA731).

(9)Portions listed in connection with other metropolitan areas.

(10)Includes 10 MHz of spectrum from Central REA 5 (WQMM368).

The map below illustrates the geographic coverage of our licensed spectrum as of December 31, 2010:



Royal Street

®







Distribution and Marketing

We offer our products and services to our customers under the MetroPCS®brand both indirectly through independent retail outlets and directly through Company operated retail stores. We
also sell our services over the Internet using our own branded MetroPCS®website. Our indirect distribution
outlets include a mixture of local, regional and national mass market dealers and retailers and specialty stores. Many of our dealers own and operate more than one location and may operate in more than one of our metropolitan areas. A substantial
number of our retailers, dealers and corporate store locations also accept payment for our services and many also perform other services for us. A significant portion of our gross customer additions have been added through our indirect distribution
outlets. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, approximately 90% of our gross customer additions were through indirect channels.

Our marketing strategy is to create and provide products, services and communications that drive growth while optimizing our marketing return on investment and minimizing the cost to acquire customers.
Our marketing campaigns emphasize that MetroPCS offers affordable, predictable and flexible service plans. MetroPCS builds consumer awareness and promotes the MetroPCS®brand by strategic local advertising to develop our brand and support our indirect and direct distribution channels. We advertise primarily through local radio,
cable, television, outdoor and local print media. In addition, we believe we have benefited from a significant number of word-of-mouth customer referrals.

Customer Care, Billing and Support Systems

We outsource some or all of
our customer care, billing, payment processing and logistics to nationally recognized third-party providers.

Our outsourced
call centers are staffed with professional and bilingual customer service personnel, who are available to assist our customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Some of these outsourced call centers are located outside the United States, including in
Mexico, Antigua, Panama, and the Philippines, which facilitates the efficient provision of customer support to our large and growing subscriber base, including Spanish speaking customers. We also provide automated voice response service to assist
our customers with routine information requests.

Network Operations

We operate 1xRTT CDMA networks in all of the metropolitan areas where we have launched service and we have upgraded our networks in most
of our metropolitan areas to 4G LTE with the upgrades in the remaining metropolitan areas presently scheduled to be completed in early 2011. A network includes a mobile switching center (for CDMA) or enhanced packet core (for 4G LTE) which serves
several purposes, including routing traffic, managing call handoffs, managing access to the public switched telephone network (for CDMA) or the Internet (CDMA and 4G LTE) and providing access to voicemail and other value-added services, base
stations (for CDMA) or eNodeBs (for 4G LTE), cell sites or distributed antenna system, or DAS, nodes, and backhaul facilities, which carry traffic to and from our cell sites and our switching or enhanced packet core facilities. Currently, almost all
cell sites in the network are co-located, meaning our equipment is located on leased facilities that are owned by third parties who retain the right to lease the facilities to additional carriers. The switching centers and national operations center
provide around-the-clock monitoring of our network.

Our switches connect to the public switched telephone network through
fiber rings leased from third-parties, which transmit originating and terminating traffic between our equipment and local exchange and long distance carriers. We also have negotiated interconnection agreements with relevant local exchange carriers,
or LECs, in our service areas.

We use third-party providers for long distance services and the majority of our backhaul
services.

Network Technology

Communications between the subscriber wireless device and our network is accomplished by a frequency management technology, or “air interface protocol.” We have deployed 1xRTT CDMA technology,
which is one of the dominant air interface protocols, and 4G LTE in most of our metropolitan areas. Our decision to use CDMA is based on what we believe are several key advantages of CDMA over other air interface protocols, including higher network
capacity, longer handset battery life, fewer dropped calls, simplified frequency planning, efficient migration path as our CDMA technology can be easily upgraded to fourth generation air interface protocols, including 4G







LTE, in a cost effective manner, and increased privacy and security. We believe 4G LTE offers several key advantages over third generation and other fourth generation air interface protocols,
including higher network capacity, potential worldwide market for devices and equipment, and an efficient upgrade path to voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, and other advanced services. CDMA and 4G LTE are incompatible with certain other air
interface protocols. Customers and former customers of other carriers may not be able to use their wireless devices on our networks because either their wireless device uses a different air interface protocol, may have deployed air interface
protocols on different frequency bands, or the other carriers with compatible air interface protocols may have restricted the customers from changing the programming of their wireless device to allow it to be used on networks other than the original
carrier’s network.

Competition

The retail market for broadband wireless services is highly competitive. We compete directly in each of our metropolitan areas with other facilities and non-facilities based wireless broadband mobile and
fixed service providers, wireline, Internet, cable, satellite and other communications service providers by providing a wireless alternative to traditional wireline service. We believe that competition for subscribers among wireless broadband mobile
providers is based mostly on price, service area, services and features, handset selection, call quality and customer service.

In addition to facilities-based wireless broadband mobile carriers, the wireless broadband mobile
industry also includes carriers such as Tracfone and PagePlus that are non-facility based mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, that contract with wireless network operators to provide a separately branded wireless service. In some cases these
MVNOs have business arrangements with one of the other major nationwide carriers, which may give them access to a more extensive network than ours. These MVNOs offer increasingly competitive service plans similar to the service plans we provide in
addition to offering more traditional prepaid plans that charge by the minute.

The wireless broadband industry also includes
other new entrant facilities-based providers, such as Clearwire and Lightsquared. Clearwire is building a network utilizing WiMax, which is the name given to a family of digital technologies that are capable of supporting high-speed, long-range
wireless services suitable for mobility applications, using spectrum predominately in the 2.5 GHz range to construct a national network to provide wireless data and telecommunications services. Clearwire owners include Google, Intel, Sprint,
Comcast, and Time Warner Cable. Lightsquared holds satellite spectrum covering North America which also permits it to build ancillary terrestrial facilities to supplement its satellite based services. Lightsquared has announced that it plans to
build a new nationwide 4G LTE wireless broadband network integrated with satellite coverage in the United States and will provide wireless broadband capacity to a diverse group of customers, including retailers, wireline and wireless communication
service providers, cable operators, device manufacturers, web players, content providers, and many others. The Lightsquared network will allow these customers to offer satellite-only, terrestrial-only, or integrated satellite-terrestrial services to
their end users.

The wireline voice and broadband industry is dominated by large incumbent carriers, such as AT&T and
Verizon. In addition, large cable companies, competitive local exchange carriers and VoIP service providers also provide competition for wireline voice and broadband services. The cable industry is dominated by large carriers such as







Time Warner Cable, Comcast and Cox Communications. These cable companies, along with cable company Advance/Newhouse, formed a joint venture called SpectrumCo LLC, or SpectrumCo, which bid on and
acquired 20 MHz of advanced wireless services, or AWS, spectrum in a number of major metropolitan areas throughout the United States, including all of the major metropolitan areas in which we have built.

There continues to be substantial merger and acquisition
activity in the wireless industry. We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, spectrum to enter new metropolitan areas or increase our spectrum holdings in metropolitan areas where we currently offer service. We also have
undertaken and, may in the future consider, acquisitions of, or other business combinations with, companies in addition to acquisitions of spectrum. We also have in the past had, and may in the future have, discussions between us and other companies
regarding potential acquisitions, divestitures, other business combinations, or transactions between the companies.

Many of
our competitors’ resources are substantially greater, and their market shares are larger, than ours. For example, a number of our competitors have significantly greater spectrum, capital, financial, marketing, human capital and other resources
than we do. Additionally, many of our wireless competitors have networks with larger coverage areas, significantly larger spectrum holdings, offer nationwide calling plans that do not give rise to additional roaming charges for their customers, and
offer international voice and data roaming options for their customers. Further, the marginal incremental cost of some of our competitors may be substantially lower than our cost to provide service and may allow such competitors to price their
services at rates that we cannot profitably provide.

In some instances, large national wireless broadband mobile services
carriers have been reluctant to enter into roaming agreements at attractive rates with smaller and mid-tier national carriers like us, which limits our ability to serve certain market segments, and recent FCC actions to promote automatic roaming do
not resolve these difficulties. This competitive pressure also may increase as our basic service plans now include nationwide service.







All of these factors may detract from our ability to attract customers from certain market
segments and may require us to add additional features or services to our existing service plans, or make other changes to our service plans, including pricing and usage.

Seasonality

Our customer activity is influenced by seasonal effects
related to traditional retail selling periods and other factors that arise from our target customer base. Based on historical results, we generally expect the net customer additions to be strongest in the first and fourth quarters. Softening of
sales and increased customer turnover, or churn, in the second and third calendar quarters of the year usually combine to result in fewer net customer additions. However, sales activity and churn can be strongly affected by the launch of new
metropolitan areas, introduction of new price plans, and by promotional activity, which could reduce or outweigh certain seasonal effects. For a more detailed discussion of seasonality in our business, please read “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Seasonality.”

Inflation

We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our operations.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we have approximately 3,600
employees. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or represented by an employee union.

Regulation

The wireless telecommunications industry is regulated
extensively by the federal government and, to varying degrees, by state and local governments. Congress, state legislatures, municipalities, and various federal, state and local regulatory bodies have enacted legislation, ordinances, codes, rules,
regulations, and administrative decisions, and courts have issued judicial decisions, orders and decrees, affecting the telecommunications industry. The political, regulatory and judicial environment and regulatory climate affecting the
communications industry has been, and is expected to remain in the future, in a state of constant flux.

Federal Regulation







Broadband Spectrum Allocations

We utilize paired radio spectrum licensed by the FCC to provide our wireless broadband mobile services. The FCC has allocated paired
broadband spectrum in a variety of different bands, and we and many of our competitors utilize a combination of spectrum in the various bands to provide wireless services. The principal terrestrially allocated spectrum bands used to provide, or
could be used to provide, terrestrial broadband wireless mobile services in the United States are as follows, all of which can be used to provide services competitive with the services we offer:

Cellular spectrum. The FCC has assigned two cellular licenses with 25 MHz of spectrum each in the 800 MHz band on a metropolitan
statistical area, or MSA, and rural service area, or RSA, basis. There are 306 MSAs and 428 RSAs in the United States. MSAs and RSAs are defined by the Office of Management and Budget, or OMB, and the FCC, respectively.

PCS spectrum.  The FCC has assigned licenses to use 130 MHz of radio spectrum in the 1.9 GHz band for broadband personal
communications services, or PCS. The PCS spectrum has been licensed in a variety of bandwidths (30 MHz, 15 MHz and 10 MHz) and market areas (nationwide, major trading areas or MTAs and basic trading areas or BTAs). Under the broadband PCS licensing
plan, the United States and its possessions and territories are divided into 493 BTAs, all of which are included within 51 MTAs. Both MTAs and BTAs are defined by Rand McNally & Company, with certain modifications adopted by the FCC.

SMR spectrum. The FCC has licensed 19 MHz of specialized mobile radio, or SMR spectrum, plus an additional 7.5
megahertz of spectrum that is available for SMR as well as other services. FCC policy permits flexible use of this spectrum, including the provision of enhanced mobile wireless services. This includes post-800 MHz band reconfiguration spectrum.

AWS-1 spectrum. The FCC has assigned 90 MHz of spectrum to be used for advanced wireless services, or AWS. The FCC
divided the 90 MHz of spectrum into two 10 MHz and one 20 MHz paired blocks assigned on a regional economic area grouping, or REAG, basis; one 10 MHz and one 20 MHz paired blocks each assigned on an economic area, or EA, basis; and a 20 MHz paired
block assigned on a Cellular Marketing Area, or CMA, basis. The CMAs generally correspond to MSAs and RSAs. Under the AWS band plan, the United States is divided into 176 EAs, 12 REAGs, and 734 CMAs. The EAs are geographic areas defined by the
Regional Economic Analysis Division of the Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce, as supplemented by the FCC. REAGs are collections of EAs.

700 MHz spectrum

BRS spectrum.  In 2004, the FCC ordered that 194 MHz of spectrum in the 2496-2690 MHz band, or the 2.5 GHz band, be
reconfigured over a period of time into upper and lower-band segments for low-power operations, with a mid-band segment for high-power operations. This spectrum is allocated and licensed in the United States and its possessions and territories in
493 BTAs. The Commission concluded in 2008 that 55.5 MHz of the broadband radio service, or BRS, spectrum holdings in the 2.5 GHz band will be included in the Commission’s product market for mobile telephony/broadband services, and taken into
consideration when the Commission is assessing the competitive impact of broadband wireless merger and acquisition transactions.

WCS spectrum.  In 2010, the FCC adopted rules relating to 30 MHz of spectrum in the 2305-2320 MHz and 2345-2360 MHz bands, or the WCS spectrum, which accord licensees greater flexibility
to offer, among other services, mobile broadband services. The WCS spectrum initially was auctioned in 1997 into four license blocks. Two 5 MHz paired channels were auctioned on a major economic area, or MEA, basis and two unpaired 5 MHz channels
were auctioned on a REAG basis. MEAs are a collection of EAs. Under the recently adopted rules, WCS licensees are subject to revised construction requirements.







Future allocations. The FCC has certain broadband wireless spectrum allocation
proceedings in process. For example, the FCC is considering service rules for an additional 20 MHz of paired AWS spectrum, or AWS-2, in the 1915-1920 MHz, 1995-2000 MHz, 2020-2025 MHz and 2175-2180 MHz bands, as well as 20 MHz of unpaired AWS
spectrum, or AWS-3, in the 2155-2175 MHz band. The FCC also is considering whether the unpaired AWS-3 spectrum could be paired in either a symmetrical or asymmetrical basis with other spectrum to create more paired spectrum. Both AWS-2 and AWS-3
have been allocated for advanced fixed and mobile services, including AWS. As noted above, the FCC also is seeking further comment on service rules for the 700 MHz D Block. The FCC and interested parties have proposed that these blocks of spectrum
be subject to various conditions, configurations and terms and conditions.

License term

The broadband PCS licenses held by us have an initial term of ten years, our AWS licenses have an initial license term of fifteen years,
and our 700 MHz license has an initial term of ten years from June 12, 2009. If we fail to meet an initial construction benchmark in June of 2013 for our 700 MHz license, the license term will be shortened to June of 2017, and we may be subject
to fines and forfeitures and/or a reduction of our licensed service area. In addition, if we fail to meet the build out requirements by the end of the license term for our 700 MHz license, we will lose our authority to serve any unserved area within
our 700 MHz license area and could be subject to fines and forfeitures, including a revocation of our 700 MHz license. Each FCC broadband spectrum license is material to our ability to operate and conduct our business in the area covered by that
license. We also have other licenses, such as microwave licenses, which we use to backhaul traffic from our cell sites to our switch locations.

Subject to applicable conditions, all of our licenses may be renewed at the end of their terms. Our initial broadband PCS licenses for San Francisco, Sacramento, Miami and Atlanta were granted in 1997,
were renewed in 2007 and are subject to renewal in January 2017; our AWS licenses were granted in November 2007 and are subject to renewal in November 2021; and our 700 MHz license was granted in June 2008 and is subject to renewal in June 2019. We
intend to file renewal applications for our licenses when the renewal filing windows open. The next wireless broadband PCS license that needs to be renewed expires in 2011.

The FCC will award a renewal expectancy to broadband commercial mobile radio service, or CMRS, licensees if the licensee meets specific performance standards. To receive a renewal expectancy, we must show
that we have provided substantial service during our past license term, and have substantially complied with applicable FCC rules







and policies and the Communications Act. If we receive a renewal expectancy, it is very likely that the FCC will renew our existing licenses. If we do not receive a renewal expectancy, the FCC,
in certain instances, may accept competing applications for the license renewal period, subject to a comparative hearing, and may award the license for the next term to another entity. The FCC also may deny license renewal applications for cause
after appropriate notice and hearing.

The FCC recently released an NPRM proposing to establish more consistent requirements
for renewal of licenses, uniform policies governing discontinuances of service, and to clarify certain construction obligations across all of the wireless service bands. We are unable to predict with any certainty the likely timing or outcome of
this wireless renewal standards proceeding. The proposed changes to the applicable renewal and discontinuance of service requirements may be applied to existing licenses that will be renewed in the future. If more stringent requirements are applied
retroactively to our existing licenses, the FCC may determine that prior actions or inactions of ours, or of our predecessors in interest, jeopardize the renewal of our licenses. The FCC has not indicated when it may take action on this NPRM.

Construction Obligations

The FCC has established various construction obligations for wireless licenses with different requirements often applying to spectrum licensed at different points in time. For example, broadband PCS
licensees holding licenses originally granted as 30 MHz licenses must construct facilities to provide service covering one-third of the population of the licensed area within five years, and two-thirds of the population of the licensed area within
ten years, or otherwise provide substantial service to the licensed area within the appropriate five- and ten-year benchmarks of their initial license grant date. Broadband PCS licensees holding 10 MHz and 15 MHz licenses generally must construct
facilities to provide service to 25% of the licensed area within five years of their initial license grant date, or otherwise make a showing of substantial service. The FCC defines substantial service as service which is sound, favorable and
substantially above a mediocre service level only minimally warranting renewal. Either we, or our predecessor-in-interest for acquired licenses, satisfied the applicable five-year coverage requirement for each of our broadband PCS licenses and the
ten-year requirement for those PCS licenses that already have been renewed. We also will be required to construct facilities to provide substantial service by the end of the initial 15-year license term for our AWS licenses, or by November 2021.

The 700 MHz licenses are subject to more stringent performance requirements. To avoid any possible loss of rights, we would
need to provide wireless coverage to 35% of the geographic area of our licensed EA in four years, or by June 2013, and 70% of the licensed geographic area by the end of the license term. While the FCC occasionally has granted brief extensions to,
and limited waivers of, license construction requirements, we cannot expect any such relief to be granted in light of the Commission’s increased efforts to recapture unused spectrum due to the broadband wireless spectrum shortage. As a
consequence, any licensee failing to meet these coverage requirements risks forfeiting their license and, in some cases, being subject to fines or monetary forfeitures.

The Commission also may adopt more stringent build-out requirements, impose further sanctions on licensees which do not meet construction thresholds or create incentives for licensees to accelerate their
build-out as a result of the FCC’s concern over a shortage of needed broadband wireless spectrum. The FCC also could act on its NPRM and impose more stringent renewal and discontinuance of service requirements, and apply those changes
retroactively to existing licenses that will be renewed in the future.

Revocation of Licenses

The FCC may deny applications for FCC licenses, deny renewal of FCC licenses, and revoke FCC licenses in extreme cases where a licensee
is found to lack the requisite qualifications to be a licensee. For example, the FCC may revoke a license or deny an application of an entity found in a judicial or administrative proceeding to have knowingly or repeatedly engaged in conduct
involving felonies, possession or sale of illegal drugs, fraud, antitrust violations or unfair competition, employment discrimination, misrepresentations to the FCC or other government agencies, serious violations of the Communications Act or FCC
regulations, or a failure to meet construction obligations. If any FCC license of ours is denied or revoked for cause, this action may have an impact on our ability to secure additional spectrum in the future, via auctions or through third party
private transactions.







Transfer and Assignment of FCC licenses

The Communications Act requires prior FCC approval for assignments or transfers of control of any license or construction permit, with
limited exceptions. In granting FCC approval for assignments or transfers, the FCC may impose conditions. To date, we have managed to secure FCC consent to a variety of assignments and transfers without undue delay or the imposition of conditions
outside of the ordinary course. If we are acquired, or acquire another entity, in the future, the FCC may disapprove the transfer of control or assignment, impose conditions, or otherwise require divestitures of some or all of our spectrum,
licenses, or other assets.

Disaggregation, Partitioning and Spectrum Leasing

The FCC allows spectrum and service areas to be subdivided, partitioned, or disaggregated, geographically or by bandwidth, with each
resulting license covering a smaller service area and/or including less spectrum. Any such partition or disaggregation is subject to FCC approval, which generally is received, but cannot be guaranteed. The FCC also has adopted policies to facilitate
development of a secondary market for unused or underused wireless spectrum by permitting the leasing of spectrum to third parties. These policies provide us, new entrants, and our competitors with alternative means to obtain additional spectrum and
allow us to dispose of excess spectrum, subject to FCC approval and applicable FCC conditions.

Spectrum and Market Concentration Limits

The FCC has certain policies intended to prevent undue concentration of the terrestrial wireless broadband mobile
services market. For example, the FCC applies heightened scrutiny to transactions in which wireless spectrum is being assigned or transferred whenever both parties to the transaction hold CMRS spectrum in the same or in an overlapping area.
Specifically, the FCC will screen a transaction for competitive concerns if, upon consummation, the acquirer, and any affiliated group whose spectrum is attributed to the acquirer, holds more than a certain amount of spectrum in a single market, or
if there was a material change in the post-transaction market share concentrations as measured by the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index. The amount of spectrum attributed to a licensee for spectrum screening purposes depends on the availability of certain
spectrum.

This screen also applies to spectrum acquired via auction. These benchmarks are subject to pending reconsideration
proceedings at the FCC. The FCC also is considering whether to initiate a proceeding to eliminate the case-by-case application of a spectrum screen in favor of a bright-line spectrum cap.

We are well below the spectrum aggregation screen in all of the geographic areas in which we hold licenses which means that the
FCC’s spectrum concentration policies should not prevent us from acquiring additional spectrum either by auction or in private transactions, and we may be able to be acquired by certain other carriers. However, the FCC’s retention of a
case-by-case approach to spectrum acquisition and the continuing revision upward of the spectrum screen may allow our competitors to make additional acquisitions of spectrum and further improve their relative spectrum positions and competitive
strength. Some of our competitors may have spectrum holdings close to, at, or over the spectrum screen amount and any acquisition of us or spectrum from us by such competitors may not be approved or divesture may be required which could deter such
competitors from acquiring us or engaging in spectrum swaps or transactions with us.

Foreign Ownership Restrictions

The Communications Act authorizes the FCC to restrict the ownership levels held by foreign nationals or their representatives, a foreign
government or its representative, or any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country. Generally, the law prohibits indirect foreign ownership of over 25% of our common stock. Our stock is freely tradable on the NYSE and foreign
ownership of our common stock could exceed this 25% threshold without our knowledge. If ownership of our common stock by non-United States citizens or entities exceeds 25%, the FCC may revoke licenses, or require us to restructure our ownership.
However, the FCC may waive the foreign ownership limits for CMRS licensees, such as us, and generally permits additional indirect foreign ownership in excess of the statutory 25% benchmark particularly if that interest is held by an entity or
entities that are citizens of, representatives of or organized under the laws of countries that are members of the World Trade Organization, or WTO. For investors from countries that are not members of the WTO, the FCC will determine if the home
country extends reciprocal treatment, called “effective competitive opportunities,” to United States entities. If these opportunities do not exist, the FCC may not permit such foreign investment beyond the 25% benchmark. We have
established internal procedures to ascertain the nature and extent of our foreign ownership, and we believe that the







indirect ownership of our equity by foreign entities is below the benchmarks established by the Communications Act. If we were to have foreign ownership in excess of the limits, we have the right
to acquire that portion of the foreign investment which places us over the foreign ownership restriction as set forth in our articles of incorporation.

General Regulatory Obligations

The Communications Act and the FCC’s
rules impose a number of requirements on wireless broadband mobile services licensees. A failure to meet or maintain compliance with the Communications Act and the FCC’s rules could subject us to fines, forfeitures, penalties, license
revocations, or other sanctions, including the imposition of mandatory reporting requirements, compliance programs or corporate monitoring, or limitations on our ability to participate in future FCC auctions or to acquire spectrum.

CMRS classification. Certain of our wireless broadband mobile services are classified at the federal level as CMRS. The FCC
regulates providers of CMRS services as common carriers, which subjects us while we provide such services to many requirements under the Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations. The FCC, however, has exempted CMRS services from some typical
common carrier regulations, such as tariff and interstate certification filings, which allows us and our competitors to respond more quickly to competition in the marketplace. The FCC also is encouraged by federal law to reduce unreasonable
disparities in the regulatory treatment of similar wireless broadband mobile services, such as cellular, broadband PCS, AWS, 700 MHz, and Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio, or ESMR, services, and federal law preempts state rate and entry regulation
of CMRS providers, but allows states to regulate the other terms and conditions of service.

See – Net Neutrality.

The FCC permits wireless broadband mobile services licensees to offer fixed
services on a co-primary basis along with mobile services. This facilitates the provision of wireless local loop service by CMRS licensees using wireless links to provide local telephone service. The extent of lawful state regulation of such
wireless local loop service is undetermined. While we do not presently offer a fixed service, our network can accommodate such an offering. We continue to evaluate our service offerings, and may offer a fixed service at some point in the future,
which may subject us to additional state regulation.

Roaming. The FCC long has required CMRS providers to permit
customers of other carriers to roam “manually” on their networks, for example, by supplying a credit card number, as long as the roaming customer’s handset is technically capable with the roamed-on network. The FCC also has ruled that
automatic voice roaming is a common carrier obligation for CMRS carriers and CMRS carriers must provide certain automatic voice roaming services to other CMRS carriers upon reasonable request and on a just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory basis
pursuant to Sections 201 and 202 of the Communications Act. Specifically, this automatic voice roaming obligation extends to services such as ours that are real-time, two-way switched voice or data services that are interconnected with the public
switched network and utilize an in-network switching facility that enables the provider to reuse frequencies







and accomplish seamless hand-offs of subscriber calls. Automatic voice roaming rights are important to us because we provide service in a limited number of metropolitan areas in the United States
and must rely on other carriers in order to offer roaming services outside our existing metropolitan areas. All the service plans we now offer to new subscribers (and to all existing customers who opt-in) include certain roaming coverage where we
have not constructed our network.

The FCC recently clarified that the automatic voice roaming obligations of broadband CMRS
providers extend to both in-market and out-of-market automatic voice roaming provided that the request is reasonable. In assessing whether a request is reasonable, the FCC will consider the totality of the circumstances and may use a number of
factors, including the technical compatibility of the roamer, the extent of the requesting carrier’s build-out where it holds spectrum, and whether alternative roaming partners are available, to determine whether a particular roaming request is
reasonable. Our potential roaming partners may utilize these factors to deny requests of our customers for automatic voice roaming services.

To date, the FCC has not extended the automatic roaming obligation to services that are classified as information services (such as high speed wireless Internet access services) or to services that are
not CMRS, but the FCC is actively considering whether the roaming obligation should be extended to such non-interconnected services or features. If the FCC does not adopt an automatic roaming requirement for non-interconnected services or features,
such as information services, high speed broadband services, and broadband Internet access services, we could have difficulty attracting and retaining certain groups of customers, especially to our 4G LTE services.

In its recent approval of the Verizon Wireless purchase of Alltel Wireless, the FCC imposed conditions that allow carriers like us who
have roaming agreements with both Verizon Wireless and Alltel Wireless to use either agreement to govern all traffic exchanged with the post-merger Verizon Wireless until January 2013. We have elected to have the Alltel Wireless roaming agreement
govern all of our roaming traffic with the combined Verizon Wireless-Alltel. We and others have asked the Commission to clarify these requirements, to extend the current commitment to January 2016 and to require post-merger Verizon Wireless to offer
automatic roaming for data services and features on a non-discriminatory basis. The Commission has not acted on this extension request and, to date, Verizon Wireless has not agreed to negotiate modified terms or an extended date for the current
agreement.

National Broadband Plan.  The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or Recovery Act,
required the FCC to coordinate with the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, to establish a National Broadband Plan and benchmarks designed to ensure that all people of the United States have access to broadband capability.
The resulting National Broadband Plan, which was released on March 16, 2010, makes numerous recommendations to the FCC, Congress and other regulatory agencies in an effort to promote broadband deployment. For instance, the National Broadband
Plan recommends that the FCC make available 500 MHz of additional spectrum for mobile broadband wireless services within the next ten years, of which 300 MHz is recommended to be made available for mobile use within five years. The National
Broadband Plan also makes recommendations regarding Commission action in the areas of intercarrier compensation, universal service, increasing competition, and a number of other regulatory issues. The FCC has initiated various regulatory proceedings
in an effort to implement certain recommendations in the National Broadband Plan, but the timing of any Commission action is uncertain.

Wireless open access.  A provider of VoIP services has asked the FCC to issue a declaratory ruling that would give wireless broadband mobile customers the right to utilize any device of
their choice to access a wireless broadband mobile network as long as the device does not cause interference or network degradation. The petition also seeks to enable customers to run applications of their choice on wireless broadband mobile
networks. This so-called “Wireless Carterfone Rule” is opposed by many wireless broadband mobile interests, including us and the wireless industry association, CTIA. The proponent also requested that the FCC initiate proceedings to
determine whether the current practices of wireless broadband mobile carriers comport with the Communications Act. The adoption of such a rule for existing networks could permit third parties to run applications on our network that consume
disproportionate amounts of airtime and/or bandwidth. Our flat rate, unlimited service is not well-suited to such applications and a mandate of this nature could substantially impede our business. The FCC sought comment on this Declaratory Ruling
and has the issues under consideration.

Network Management and Net Neutrality.  In November 2007, a digital
content company asked the FCC to prohibit broadband network operators from blocking, degrading or unreasonably discriminating against lawful Internet applications, context or technologies. In August 2008, the FCC ruled that Comcast Corporation
violated the FCC’s policy regarding reasonable broadband network management by discriminating against certain types of







network traffic. In April 2010, the Federal Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia reversed on jurisdictional grounds the FCC’s decision that Comcast violated the FCC’s policy
regarding reasonable broadband network management. Subsequently, the FCC initiated a proceeding to consider the adoption of net neutrality regulations on a different jurisdictional basis.

Interconnection. FCC rules provide that all telecommunications carriers are obligated upon reasonable request to interconnect
directly or indirectly with the facilities and networks of other telecommunications carriers. All LECs also must, upon request, enter into mutual or reciprocal compensation arrangements with CMRS carriers for the exchange of intra-MTA traffic. Under
the current intercarrier compensation regime, each carrier compensates the other for terminated intra-MTA traffic originating on the compensating carrier’s network. Further, at a CMRS carrier’s request, incumbent local exchange carriers
must exchange intra-MTA traffic with CMRS carriers at rates based on the FCC’s costing rules or rates set by state public utility commissions applying the FCC’s rules. CMRS carriers also have an obligation to engage in voluntary
negotiation and may be subject to arbitration with incumbent local exchange carriers similar to those imposed on the incumbent local exchange carriers pursuant to Section 252 of the Communications Act. Once an incumbent local exchange carrier
requests negotiation of an interconnection arrangement, both carriers are obligated to begin paying the FCC’s default rates for all intra-MTA traffic exchanged after the request for negotiation.

CMRS carriers generally are obligated to pay reasonable compensation to a LEC in connection with intra-MTA traffic originated by the CMRS
carrier and terminated by the LEC. While these rules provide that LECs may not charge CMRS carriers for facilities used by CMRS carriers to terminate LECs’ traffic, LECs may charge CMRS carriers for facilities used to transport and terminate
CMRS traffic and for facilities used for transit purposes to carry CMRS carrier traffic to a third carrier. Since 2005, no LEC has been permitted to impose rates by state tariff on a going-forward basis for the termination of a CMRS carrier’s
intra-MTA traffic. We generally have been successful in negotiating arrangements with carriers with whom we exchange intra-MTA traffic. In addition, the FCC rules relating to intercarrier compensation are under review by the FCC in various
rulemaking and adjudicatory proceedings, and it is not known whether or not there will be material changes in the applicable rules, when they might take effect and whether they will be beneficial or detrimental to us.







Access. In order to offer long distance services to our customers, we resell the long
distance services provided by third parties. Those third parties are obligated to pay compensation to the telecommunications carriers who terminate our subscribers’ long distance calls. Historically, CMRS carriers generally have not been
entitled to receive direct access payments for the long distance calls they terminate, but must pay access charges to other telecommunications carriers for calls they terminate. In October 2007, the FCC initiated a proceeding to determine whether
the FCC’s current rules ensure that the rates for switched access services charged by LECs are just and reasonable. In this and related proceedings, the FCC is investigating certain traffic stimulation activities of LECs which are alleged to
generate excessive fees for switched access traffic and which could affect compensation for intra-MTA traffic delivered by CMRS carriers to LECs. The FCC also is considering whether sharing of access revenues is appropriate. We and others have asked
the FCC to cap the amount of compensation paid to LECs for traffic that is grossly imbalanced. If the FCC adopts such proposed limitations, it could reduce the amount of compensation we are obligated to pay LECs, and may affect the amount of access
sharing revenue we receive.

Universal Service Fund (USF)

Eligible
telecommunications carriers

Services to persons with disabilities.
Telecommunications carriers are required to make their services reasonably accessible to persons with disabilities. These FCC rules generally require service providers to offer equipment and services accessible to and usable by persons with
disabilities, if readily achievable, and to comply with FCC-mandated complaint/grievance procedures. These rules are largely untested and are subject to interpretation through the FCC’s complaint process. These rules focus mainly on
requirements that must be met by the manufacturers of wireless equipment, but a certain percentage of our handsets must be hearing aid compatible and we have annual reporting requirements. In addition, we are required to offer these hearing
aid-compatible wireless phones for each air interface we provide. As a result, this requirement may limit our ability to offer services using new air interfaces other than CDMA 1xRTT, such as dual mode CDMA/4G LTE handsets, may limit the number of
handsets we can offer, or may increase the costs of handsets for those new air interfaces.







In October 2010, the President signed into law the Twenty-First Century Communications and
Video Accessibility Act of 2010, or the Accessibility Act. The Accessibility Act is intended to ensure that individuals with disabilities have access to emerging Internet-protocol-based communication and video programming technologies in the 21st
Century, by updating requirements of television, telephone, and Internet service providers. These new obligations govern the provision of advanced communications services, including interconnected and non-interconnected VoIP services, to persons
with disabilities, recordkeeping related to adherence to these policies, and the provision of Internet browsers suitable for blind or visually-impaired individuals. The Accessibility Act requires the FCC to implement its provisions, and the FCC has
issued an initial public notice seeking comments on certain aspects of the Accessibility Act.

E-911 service

Spectrum clearing. Spectrum allocated for AWS has been utilized by a variety of categories of commercial and governmental users. The spectrum allocated for AWS-1 was utilized by certain
governmental users, many of whom are required over time to relocate from the AWS-1 spectrum. However, in some cases, not all governmental users have yet relocated or are obligated to relocate and, in other cases, incumbent users are not
obligated to relocate for some period of time, with varying time frames for relocation. To foster the orderly clearing of the spectrum, the FCC adopted a transition and cost sharing plan pursuant to which incumbent non-governmental users are
reimbursed for relocating to other spectrum and with the costs of relocation being shared by AWS-1 licensees benefiting from the relocation. Under the FCC relocation plan, the AWS-1 licensee and the incumbent non-governmental user negotiate
voluntarily for three years and then, if no agreement has been reached, the incumbent licensee is subject to mandatory relocation procedures in which the AWS-1 licensee can relocate the incumbent non-governmental licensee at the AWS-1
licensee’s expense.

Spectrum allocated for the 700 MHz band previously was occupied by analog television broadcast
licensees and certain wireless microphone users. By federal law, all existing analog television broadcast licenses vacated the 700 MHz spectrum on or before June 12, 2009 without any reimbursement from 700 MHz licensees. In January 2010, the
FCC ruled that all wireless microphone users were obligated to cease operations by June 12, 2010, in the portion of the 700 MHz band currently allocated for wireless services. Licensees granted 700 MHz licenses were not obligated to pay for the
relocation of wireless microphones from the 700 MHz band.

Siting issues. The location and characteristics of wireless
antennas, DAS systems and nodes, base stations and towers are subject to FCC and Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, regulations, federal environmental regulations, and other federal, state, and local regulations, including local zoning,
building, and electrical requirements. The FCC has adopted rules that are intended to expedite siting decisions by state and local authorities, but the rules are subject to continuing legal challenges. With respect to AWS-1 sites, we must notify the
FAA when we add AWS-1 frequencies to existing sites that already have been determined not to be a hazard to air navigation by the FAA. Antenna structures used by us and other wireless providers also are subject to FCC rules implementing







the National Environmental Policy Act and the National Historic Preservation Act. Under these rules, construction cannot begin on any structure that may significantly affect the human
environment, or that may affect historic properties, until the wireless provider has filed an environmental assessment with and obtained approval from the FCC or a local agency. Processing of environmental assessments can delay construction of
antenna facilities, particularly if the FCC or local agency determines that additional information is required or if community opposition arises. In addition, several environmental groups have requested various changes to the FCC’s
environmental processing rules, challenged specific environmental assessments as failing statutory requirements and sought to have the FCC conduct a comprehensive assessment of the environmental effects of antenna tower construction. The FCC also
has been ordered by the Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit to further consider the impact that communications facilities, including wireless towers and antennas, may have on migratory birds, and the FCC has initiated a proceeding to do so. In the
meantime, there are a variety of federal and state court actions in which citizen and environmental groups have sought to deny individual tower approvals based upon potential adverse impacts to migratory birds.

Bill Shock.In October 2010, the FCC proposed and sought comment on rules that would require mobile service providers
to issue real time usage and billing alerts to consumers to assist them in avoiding unexpectedly high bills. These alerts would include notifications when a consumer approaches their allocated limit for voice, text or data usage, and when a consumer
reaches their monthly limit and begins incurring overage charges. The FCC did ask whether prepaid mobile services should be exempt from any usage alert requirements. Any such usage requirements could increase our operational expenses. The likely
timing and outcome of this proceeding are uncertain.

Communications assistance for law enforcement act (CALEA).
Federal law requires CMRS carriers to assist law enforcement agencies with lawful wiretaps, and imposes wiretap-related record-keeping and personnel-related obligations. Historically, our customer base may have been, and may continue to be, subject
to a greater percentage of law enforcement requests than those of other carriers and, as a result, our compliance expenses may be proportionately greater.

Number administration. Because demand is increasing for a finite pool of telephone numbers, the FCC has adopted number pooling rules that govern how telephone numbers are allocated. Number pooling
is mandatory inside the wireline rate centers that are located in counties included in the top 100 MSAs. We have implemented number pooling procedures and support pooled number roaming in all of our metropolitan areas which are in the top 100 MSAs.
The FCC also has authorized states to supplement federal numbering requirements in certain respects and some of the states where we provide service have been authorized by the FCC to engage in limited numbering administration. Our ability to access
telephone numbers on a timely basis is important for our ability to continue to grow our business.

Regulatory fees. We
are obligated to pay certain annual regulatory fees and assessments to support FCC wireless industry regulation, as well as fees supporting federal universal service programs, number portability, regional database costs, centralized telephone
numbering administration, telecommunications relay service for the hearing-impaired and application filing fees. These fees are subject to change periodically by the FCC and the manner in which carriers may recoup these fees from customers is
subject to various restrictions.

Number portability. The FCC has ordered all telecommunications carriers, including
CMRS carriers, to support telephone number portability which enables subscribers to keep their telephone numbers when they change telecommunications carriers, whether wireless to wireless or, in some instances, wireline to wireless, and vice versa.
Under these local number portability rules, a CMRS carrier located in one of the top 100 MSAs must have the technology in place to allow its customers to keep their telephone numbers when they switch to a new carrier. Outside of the top 100 MSAs,
CMRS carriers receiving a request to allow end users to keep their telephone numbers must be capable of doing so within six months of the request. All CMRS carriers are required to support nationwide roaming for customers retaining their numbers.

Equal access. At present, CMRS carriers are exempt from the obligation to provide equal access to interstate long
distance carriers. However, the FCC has the authority to impose rules requiring unblocked access through carrier identification codes or 800/888 numbers to long distance carriers so CMRS customers are not denied access to their chosen long distance
carrier, if the FCC determines the public interest so requires. Our customers have access to alternative long distance carriers using toll-free numbers.







Customer proprietary network information (CPNI). FCC rules impose restrictions on a
telecommunications carrier’s use of customer proprietary network information, or CPNI, without prior customer approval, including restrictions on the use of information related to a customer’s location. These rules are broad in scope and
require us not only to protect customer information ourselves, but also to take steps to make sure that our agents and contractors protect this information. CMRS carriers must take reasonable measures to discover and protect against pretexting and,
in enforcement proceedings, the FCC will infer from evidence of unauthorized disclosures of CPNI that reasonable protections were not taken. The FCC has imposed substantial fines on certain wireless carriers for their failure to comply with the
FCC’s CPNI rules and this continues to be an area of active regulatory oversight. The FCC previously conducted a broad scale investigation into whether CMRS carriers are properly protecting the CPNI of their customers against unauthorized
disclosure to third parties and may conduct further investigations in the future. The FCC also is seeking comment on additional CPNI regulations.

Congress and state legislators also have passed and may pass legislation governing the use and protection of CPNI and other personal information. For example, Congress enacted the Telephone Records and
Privacy Protection Act of 2006, which imposes criminal penalties upon persons who purchase without a customer’s consent, or use fraud to gain unauthorized access to, telephone records. In addition, certain states have enacted, and other states
in the future may enact, legislature relating to customer personal information. The recent and pending legislation (if enacted) may require us to change how we protect our customer’s CPNI and other personal information.

Backup power requirements. In October 2007, the FCC adopted rules which, if they had taken effect, would have required us to
maintain emergency backup power for a minimum of twenty-four hours for certain of our equipment that is normally powered from local commercial power located inside mobile switching offices, and eight hours for certain equipment that is normally
powered from local commercial power at other locations, including cell sites and DAS nodes. Various aspects of the rules were challenged in court and before the OMB. As a result, the rules have never taken effect, but the FCC has indicated that it
plans to seek comment on revised backup power rules applicable to wireless providers. If we are required to meet back up power requirements, or secure additional state or local permits or authorization, this could delay the construction of any new
cell sites or distributed antenna systems, or DAS systems, and launch of services in new metropolitan areas and increase our costs.

Tower lighting and painting.  The FCC has established rules requiring certain towers and other structures to be painted and lighted to minimize the hazard to air navigation. In addition,
we are obligated to notify the FAA if the required lighting at a tower is no longer being maintained. A failure to abide by these requirements could result in the imposition of fines and forfeitures or other liability if an accident occurs. We
generally collocate on existing towers and structures owned and operated by others and do not have the right to paint or control the lighting at the site but, as an FCC-licensed carrier at the site, still could be held accountable if the lighting
and painting requirements are not met.

Radio frequency limits. The FCC sets limits on radio frequency, or RF,
emissions from cell sites and has rules that establish procedures intended to protect persons from RF hazards. We have policies in place designed to comply with the applicable limits and restrictions at cell sites where we have operations, but,
given the number of sites involved and the nature of the requirements, we cannot guarantee that we are in compliance at each cell site at all times.

Emergency warning. The FCC has adopted technical standards, protocols, procedures, and other requirements under the Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act, or WARN Act, to govern emergency
alerting standards for CMRS providers which voluntarily elect to participate. Rules, regulations and industry protocols are in the process of being developed to implement this program. We plan to participate in the voluntary emergency alert program.
This election may cause us to incur costs and expenses, and customers desiring this service may be required to purchase new handsets. Under the adopted rules, a participating carrier must notify customers of the availability of emergency alerts but
may not charge separately for the alerting capability and the CMRS carrier’s liability related to, or any harm resulting from, the transmission of, or failure to transmit, an emergency alert is limited. If we decide to withdraw from
participation at a later date, our customers may decide to terminate their service with us. The FCC also is considering the feasibility of requiring wireless providers to distribute emergency information and, if it does so, the requirements to which
we are subject under the rules and the WARN Act may change, which could cause us to incur additional costs and expenses.

White spaces. The FCC has adopted rules to allow unlicensed radio transmitters to operate in the unused broadcast digital
television spectrum, or White Spaces. The FCC’s rules provide for both fixed and personal/portable devices to operate in the White Spaces on an unlicensed basis, subject to various protections to existing users of the spectrum. Policies and
industry protocols are in the process of being developed to implement this program. Other companies may offer services in the White Spaces that compete with services offered by us. Because any such competing services may be offered on an unlicensed
basis, the providers may be able to offer them at a lower cost.







Regulatory classifications. In January 2008, the FCC solicited comments on whether
text messages and short codes are common carrier services to which CMRS carriers must provide non-discriminatory access. The outcome and such timing of any FCC action, or the effect that such a ruling would have on us, is presently unknown.

Outage reporting. The FCC requires all telecommunications carriers to report outages meeting certain specified
criteria to the FCC. These reporting requirements affect the way we track and gather data regarding system outages and repair outages. Outage reporting is subject to active regulatory oversight, and we are potentially subject to fines and
forfeitures if we fail to make timely reports.

Other Federal Regulation

Copyright protection. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, protects against the circumvention of technological measures
employed to protect copyrighted works, or access control. Under the DMCA, the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress, or the Copyright Office, has the authority to exempt certain activities which otherwise might be prohibited by that the DMCA
for a period of three years, subject to possible extension for successive three year periods. In 2006, the Copyright Office granted an exemption pertaining to the unlocking of wireless phones which facilitated moving handsets from one carrier
service to another. The exemption was extended in 2010, in a slightly modified form. The current exemption allows circumvention of certain software locks and other firmware on wireless telephone handsets when such circumvention is solely to enable
authorized connection to a wireless telecommunications network. We have implemented a service called MetroFlash that enables new customers under certain circumstances to unlock and reprogram their existing CDMA handsets so that they will operate on
our networks. The MetroFlash program has been designed to meet the current exemption, but the scope of the new exemption remains untested. Other carriers also have implemented reflashing programs that may enable MetroPCS customers to use their
phones on another carrier’s network.

Other. Our operations also are subject to various other federal regulations,
including those regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state and local regulatory agencies and
legislative bodies. For example, the construction and operation of telecommunications facilities throughout the U.S. subjects us to a myriad of federal and state environmental laws that create reporting and permitting requirements. These rules and
regulations often are complex and subject to change and we could be held responsible for failing to comply.

State, Local and Other
Regulation

The Communications Act preempts state or local regulation of market entry or rates charged by any CMRS
provider. As a result, we are free to establish rates and offer new products and services with minimum state regulation. However, states and local agencies may regulate “other terms and conditions” of wireless service, and certain states
where we operate have adopted rules and regulations to which we are subject, primarily focusing upon consumer protection issues and resolution of customer complaints. In addition, several state authorities have initiated actions or investigations of
various wireless carrier practices. These proceedings could require us to change our marketing practices, ultimately increasing state regulatory authority over the wireless industry. To the extent that applicable rules differ from state to state,
our costs of compliance may go up and our ability to have uniform policies and practices throughout our business may be impaired. State and local governments also may manage public rights of way and can require fair and reasonable compensation from
telecommunications carriers, including CMRS providers, for the use of such rights of any, so long as the government publicly discloses such compensation.

Various decisions have been rendered by, and other proceedings are pending before, state public utility commissions and courts pertaining to the extent to which the FCC’s preemptive rights over CMRS
rates and entry prevent states from regulating aspects of wireless service, such as billing policies, our ability to bill for third party’s charges incurred by our subscribers, and other consumer issues. These proceedings could subject us to
additional state regulation which could cause us to incur additional costs.

The FCC recently ruled that the rates to be
charged by competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, to CMRS carriers should be resolved by the pertinent state regulatory commissions. We have appealed this ruling. In the meantime, certain CLECs have begun filing applications with state
regulatory commissions seeking to set rates for







their termination services. This subjects us to a multiplicity of state rate cases in which the state regulatory commission may set the rates to be charged by CLECs to CMRS carriers for the
termination of traffic by CMRS carriers to CLECs. We consider some of the requested rates to be unreasonably high.

Certain states and municipalities in which we provide service or plan to provide service have passed laws prohibiting texting or the use
of wireless phones while driving, requiring the use of wireless headsets, or other laws affecting the use or sale of our services. Other states and municipalities may adopt similar restrictions in the future, and one national organization is
advocating a total ban on the use of wireless phones while driving.

Certain states in which we provide service are in the
process of reviewing proposed legislation that would require persons selling prepaid wireless services, such as ours, to verify a customer’s identity using government identification. We currently do not require our subscribers to provide a
government issued identification to initiate service with us.

Future Regulation

From time to time, federal, state or local government regulators enact new or revise existing legislation or regulations that could
affect us, either beneficially or adversely. Ongoing changes in the political and financial climate may foster increased legislation or regulation, which might adversely affect us.

