Item 1.Business



General



We are the fifth largest facilities-based wireless broadband mobile communications provider in the United States based on the number of customers served. We offer wireless broadband mobile services under the MetroPCS® brand in selected major metropolitan areas in the United States. We provide a variety of wireless broadband mobile communications services to our customers on a no long-term contract, paid-in-advance basis. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 8.9 million customers.



MetroPCS Wireless, Inc., or Wireless, was incorporated in 1995 in the state of Delaware and maintains its corporate headquarters in Richardson, Texas. All of our services are provided through our wholly-owned subsidiaries.  MetroPCS Wireless, Inc. is a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of MetroPCS Communications, Inc. which was incorporated in 2004 in the state of Delaware. In April 2007, MetroPCS Communications consummated an initial public offering of its common stock and became listed for trading on The New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PCS.”



Our web site address iswww.metropcs.com. Information contained on, or accessible from, our web site is not incorporated by reference into this annual report and should not be considered part of this annual report or any filing we make with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. We file with, or furnish to, the SEC all our periodic filings and reports, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, as well as other information. All of our filings with the SEC are available free of charge through the Investor Relations page of our web site as soon as practicable after filing or providing such information to the SEC. Copies of any of our filings with the SEC also may be obtained, without charge, by sending a written request to Investor Relations, MetroPCS Communications, Inc., 2250 Lakeside Blvd., Richardson, Texas 75082. Copies of any of our filings also can be obtained without charge from the SEC atwww.sec.gov.



Business Overview



We currently provide our wireless broadband mobile services primarily in and around selected major metropolitan areas in the United States, including the Atlanta, Boston, Dallas/Fort Worth, Detroit, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Orlando/Jacksonville, Philadelphia, Sacramento, San Francisco, and Tampa/Sarasota metropolitan areas. As of December 31, 2012, we held licenses for wireless spectrum suitable for wireless broadband mobile services covering a total population of approximately 144 million people in and around many of the largest metropolitan areas in the United States.  In addition, we have roaming agreements with other wireless broadband mobile carriers that allow us to offer our customers service in many areas when they are outside our service area. These roaming agreements, together with the area we serve with our own networks, allow our customers to receive service in an area covering over 280 million in total population under the Metro USA® brand. We provide our services using code division multiple access, or CDMA, networks using 1xRTT and evolution data optimized technology, or EVDO, and networks using long-term evolution, or 4G LTE, technology. As of December 31, 2012, we served approximately 98% of the population covered by our CDMA/EVDO networks with 4G LTE.  See the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 and F-6, respectively.

T-Mobile Transaction

On October 3, 2012, MetroPCS, Deutsche Telekom AG, anAktiengesellschaftorganized and existing under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany, or Deutsche Telekom, T-Mobile GlobalZwischenholdingGmbH, aGesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftungorganized and existing under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom, or T-Mobile Global, T-Mobile Global Holding GmbH, aGesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftungorganized and existing under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Global, or T-Mobile Holding, and T-Mobile USA, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of T-Mobile Holding, or T-Mobile, entered into the Business Combination Agreement. The combination of MetroPCS with T-Mobile we believe will create a leading value wireless carrier in the United States, which we believe will deliver an enhanced customer experience through a broader selection of affordable products and services, more network capacity and broader network coverage and a clear-cut technology path to one common long-term evolution network, which we refer to as an LTE network.  We believe that the combined company will have the expanded scale, spectrum and financial resources to compete aggressively with the other larger United States wireless carriers.   The Business Combination Agreement has been approved by our board of directors.











Pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement the following transactions, among others, are proposed to occur, or, collectively, the Proposed Transaction or the T-Mobile Transaction:



•We will effect a recapitalization that includes (a) a reverse stock split, or the reverse stock split, of our common stock, which has a par value $0.0001 per share prior to the completion of the Proposed Transaction and will have a par value of $0.00001 per share following the completion of the Proposed Transaction, pursuant to which each share of our common stock outstanding as of the effective time of the reverse stock split, will represent thereafter one-half share of our common stock, and (b) a payment in cash of $1.5 billion (or approximately $4.06 per share pre reverse stock split), without interest, in the aggregate to our stockholders of record immediately following the effective time of the reverse stock split, or the Recapitalization Payment;

•immediately following the Recapitalization Payment, we will issue and deliver to T-Mobile Holding, or its designee, 74% of the fully diluted shares of our common stock outstanding immediately following the Recapitalization Payment, (with the percentage ownership of our common stock being calculated pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement (a) under the treasury method based on the average closing price of a share of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the five trading days immediately preceding the date the Proposed Transaction is closed completed after taking into account the Reverse Stock Split and the Recapitalization Payment but before taking into account the subsequent cash-out of stock options, if any, in connection with the Proposed Transaction, and (b) on a grossed up basis to take into account the number of shares of our common stock so issued to T-Mobile Holding or its designee) and T-Mobile Holding will deliver to us all issued and outstanding capital stock of T-Mobile; and

•unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, on the business day immediately following the closing of the Reverse Stock Split, the Recapitalization Payment and the Stock Issuance, MetroPCS, Inc., a Delaware corporation, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of us and the direct parent of MetroPCS, or HoldCo, will merge with and into Wireless, with Wireless continuing as the surviving entity, and (b) immediately afterward, Wireless will merge with and into T-Mobile, with T-Mobile continuing as the surviving entity.

In addition, in connection with the closing of the Proposed Transaction, we will amend and restate our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, change our name to “T-Mobile US, Inc.” or another name selected by Deutsche Telekom prior to the closing of the Proposed Transaction, and request the assignment of the “TMUS” ticker symbol.

The Business Combination Agreement grants both us and Deutsche Telekom the right to terminate the Business Combination Agreement by mutual agreement or under certain other circumstances, including, among others, if (i) a governmental entity takes final, non-appealable action prohibiting the Proposed Transaction, (ii) the closing of the Proposed Transaction has not occurred on or before October 3, 2013, subject to a right to extend such date until January 3, 2014 if certain regulatory or governmental approvals have not been obtained, or the Outside Date, (iii) the Required Approvals are not obtained, (iv) the other party breaches its representations, warranties or covenants and the breach would result in the failure of a closing condition to be satisfied or (v) the other party suffers a material adverse effect.  In addition, Deutsche Telekom has the









The Business Combination Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants by the parties. We have agreed to covenants and agreements that include, among others, agreements (i) to conduct our business in the ordinary course in all material respects during the period between the execution of the Business Combination Agreement and the closing of the Proposed Transaction, (ii) not to engage in certain transactions during this period, (iii) to call and hold a meeting of our stockholders to consider and vote upon the Required Approvals and (iv) not to solicit, or provide information or enter into discussions in connection with, alternative proposals, subject to certain exceptions to permit the our Board of Directors to comply with its fiduciary duties. In addition subject to certain exceptions, our Board of Directors is required to recommend that our stockholders approve Required Approvals.



Concurrently, and in connection, with entering into the Business Combination Agreement, Deutsche Telekom and Madison Dearborn Capital Partners IV, L.P., or Madison Dearborn, entered into a voting and support agreement, pursuant to which, subject to the conditions set forth therein, Madison Dearborn agreed to, among other things, vote all shares of our common stock beneficially owned by it, as well as any additional securities which it may acquire or own, (i) in favor of the Required Approvals and (ii) against certain third party proposals to acquire us and against any other actions that could reasonably be expected to materially impede, interfere with, delay, postpone, discourage or adversely affect the Proposed Transaction or any other transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement. In addition, Madison Dearborn has agreed to substantially similar non-solicitation restrictions as those imposed upon us pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement. As of December 31, 2012, Madison Dearborn beneficially owned approximately 8.31% of  our outstanding common stock.



T-Mobile will sell and issue to Deutsche Telekom, on the closing date of the Reverse Stock Split, the Recapitalization Payment and the Stock Issuance, or the Closing Date, senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of up to $18.5 billion, or the Deutsche Telekom Notes, on terms and conditions set forth in the Business Combination Agreement.  On December 14, 2012, Wireless completed a consent solicitation which, among other things, amended the indentures governing its senior unsecured notes so that the consummation of the Proposed Transaction would not constitute a change in control (as defined under such indentures) under such indentures.  Subject to certain conditions, and considering the completed consent solicitation Wireless has the right to sell and issue to third party investors on or prior to the Closing Date up to $3.5 billion of senior unsecured notes, or the New Notes.  If any New Notes are issued, such issuance will reduce dollar for dollar the principal amount of Deutsche Telecom Notes issued on the Closing Date.



The Deutsche Telekom Notes will be issued by T-Mobile to Deutsche Telekom or a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom pursuant to an indenture, or the Deutsche Telekom Notes Indenture, containing the terms set forth described in the description of notes attached as Exhibit G to the Business Combination Agreement, or, as such Exhibit G may be amended from time to time, the Deutsche Telekom Description of Notes.  Pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, the covenants, events of default and other non-economic terms and conditions of the Deutsche Telekom Notes and any New Notes are required (after the assumption of such notes by T-Mobile, in the case of New Notes) to conform to the Deutsche Telekom Description of Notes.  The Deutsche Telekom Notes will be unsecured, but guaranteed by us and by all of T-Mobile's wholly-owned domestic restricted subsidiaries (other than special purpose entities and immaterial subsidiaries), all of T-Mobile's restricted subsidiaries that guarantee certain of T-Mobile's indebtedness, and any future subsidiary of ours that directly or indirectly owns any of T-Mobile's equity interests.











Competitive Strengths



We believe our business has the following competitive strengths that distinguish us from our principal wireless competitors:



•Our service plans.  We currently offer our wireless broadband mobile services on a no long-term contract, paid-in-advance, flat-rate, and predominately unlimited usage basis. We currently provide our wireless broadband mobile services to new customers and most of our existing customers on rate plans that include all applicable taxes and regulatory fees. We believe our  service plans have positioned, and will continue to position, us well for the growing trend of wireline displacement.

•Our densely populated markets.  The aggregate population density in and around the major metropolitan areas we currently serve with our own networks is substantially higher than the national average. We believe the high relative population density of the areas our networks serve results in increased efficiencies in network deployment, operations and product distribution.

•Our cost leadership position.  Our costs to provide wireless broadband mobile services allow us to offer our services on a flat-rate and predominately unlimited basis at affordable prices while maintaining cash profits per customer as a percentage of revenue per customer that we believe is among the highest in the wireless broadband mobile services industry. We currently are the fifth largest facilities-based wireless broadband mobile services provider in the United States based on number of customers served and we have enjoyed economies of scale as we increased the number of customers we serve.

•Our advanced networks.  Our networks use CDMA/EVDO and 4G LTE technologies. We believe CDMA/EVDO and 4G LTE technology provides us with substantially more voice and data capacity per MHz of spectrum than other commonly deployed wireless broadband mobile technologies.



Business Strategy



We believe the following components of our business strategy provide a foundation for our business:



•Target underserved customer segments in our markets. We have historically predominantly targeted a mass market that we believe has been largely underserved historically by traditional wireless broadband mobile carriers.

•Offer simple, predictable, affordable and flexible service plans. We plan to continue to focus on increasing the value proposition for our customers by offering simple, predictable, affordable and flexible service plans. We offer a variety of unlimited wireless broadband mobile service plans including CDMA service plans that include all applicable taxes and regulatory fees for a flat rate and 4G LTE wireless broadband mobile voice, text and web access services at fixed monthly rates, including all applicable taxes and regulatory fees, starting as low as $40 per month.

•Remain one of the lowest cost wireless service providers in the United States. We plan to continue to focus on controlling our costs to allow us to remain one of the lowest cost providers of wireless broadband mobile services in the United States.

•Expand our markets. We plan to continue to focus on expanding in and around the major metropolitan areas we currently serve, which may require us to acquire, or gain access to, additional spectrum suitable for wireless broadband mobile service or to enter into or expand our roaming arrangements with other wireless carriers so our customers can receive wireless broadband mobile service when they travel outside our network service area.

•Continue to invest in our networks. We plan to continue to make significant capital improvements to our networks in order to offer our customers competitive and technologically-advanced services, including enhanced data services, location-based services and digital technology as they become increasingly available.

•Offer nationwide voice, text and web services. Since January 2010, all unlimited wireless broadband mobile service plans we offer to new customers include nationwide voice, text and web access services for a flat rate inclusive of applicable taxes and regulatory fees. In order to provide these plans, we have entered into, and may enter into or expand in the future, roaming agreements with other wireless broadband mobile service providers that allow our customers to receive wireless broadband mobile services when they are outside the areas we currently serve with our networks.











Products and Services



We provide wireless broadband mobile services under the MetroPCS® brand. We offer these services under a family of service plans, which include all applicable taxes and regulatory fees and offer nationwide voice, text and web access services on a predominately unlimited, no long-term contract, paid-in-advance, flat-rate basis starting at as little as $40 per month. For an additional $5 to $30 per month, our customers may select alternative service plans that offer additional features on an unlimited basis. We also offer discounts to customers who purchase services for additional handsets on the same account. We also offer 4G LTE service plans that allow customers to enjoy unlimited voice, text and web access services at fixed monthly rates starting as low as $40 per month. For additional usage fees, we also provide certain other value-added services.



We provide the following products and services:



•Voice services. Our voice services allow customers to place voice calls to, and receive calls from, any telephone in the world, including local, domestic long distance, and international calls. Our voice services also allow customers to receive and make calls while they are located in areas served by our networks and in those geographic areas served by the networks of certain other wireless broadband mobile carriers with whom we have roaming arrangements.

•Data services. Our data services include text messaging services (domestic and international); multimedia messaging services; mobile Internet access; mobile instant messaging; location-based services; social networking services; push e-mail; multimedia streaming and downloads; and services provided, depending on the network and locale, through the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless, or BREW, Blackberry, Windows, and the Android platforms, such as ringtones, ring back tones, games, content, and applications.

•Custom calling features. We offer custom calling features, including caller ID, call waiting, three-way calling and voicemail.

•Advanced handsets. We sell a variety of feature phones, and increasingly, smartphones, predominately manufactured by nationally recognized manufacturers for use on our network, including models that have cameras, include HTML browsers, play music, play streaming audio, display streaming video and downloaded video, and have other features facilitating digital data. We sell a variety of handsets using vendor or handset specific operating systems, such as BREW, Blackberry, Windows, and the Android operating system.



Service Areas



Our strategy is to offer our wireless broadband mobile services in major metropolitan markets and surrounding areas. We commenced providing commercial wireless broadband mobile service in the first quarter of 2002. We launched service in our current major metropolitan areas as follows:

•Miami, Atlanta and Sacramento in the first quarter of 2002;

•San Francisco in September 2002;

•Tampa/Sarasota in October 2005;

•Dallas/Fort Worth in March 2006;

•Detroit in April 2006;

•Orlando and portions of northern Florida in November 2006;

•Los Angeles in September 2007;

•Las Vegas in March 2008;

•Philadelphia in July 2008; and

•New York and Boston in February 2009.



We provide our wireless broadband mobile services using paired personal communications services, or PCS, spectrum and advanced wireless services, or AWS, spectrum. In addition, we hold a license for 12 MHz of paired 700 MHz Lower Band A spectrum in the Boston-Worcester, MA/NH/RI/VT basic economic area, or BEA, which, unless we receive a waiver from the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, of the 4 year construction requirements, we plan to construct in the first half of 2013. In each of our major metropolitan areas where we provide service, as of December 31, 2012, we hold between 10 MHz and 60 MHz of paired spectrum and on average we have approximately 22 MHz of paired spectrum in the major metropolitan areas we serve. In the aggregate, as of December 31, 2012, we offer wireless broadband mobile services using  our own network covering a population of approximately 103 million in the continental United States.











The map below illustrates the geographic coverage of our licensed spectrum as of December 31, 2012:



Distribution and Marketing



We offer our products and services to our customers under the MetroPCS® brand predominately through retail distribution. Our retail distribution includes independent retail outlets and Company-operated retail stores. We also offer our services over the Internet using our own branded MetroPCS® website. Our independent retail outlets include a mixture of local, regional and national mass market dealers and retailers and specialty stores. Many of our dealers own and operate more than one retail sales location and some operate in more than one of our major metropolitan areas. A substantial number of our retailers, dealers, specialty stores, and corporate store locations, and certain other locations, accept payment for our services and many also perform other services for us. A significant portion of our gross customer additions have been added through our independent retail outlets. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 90% of our gross customer additions were through independent retail outlets.



Our marketing strategy has been to create and provide products, services, content and applications that drive customer growth while optimizing our marketing return on investment and minimizing the cost to acquire customers. Our marketing campaigns emphasize that MetroPCS offers simple, affordable, predictable and flexible service plans. MetroPCS builds consumer awareness and promotes the MetroPCS® brand by strategic local advertising to develop our brand and support our distribution channels.  We advertise primarily through local radio, cable, television, outdoor and local print media. We also advertise through sponsorship arrangements with local, regional, and national sports teams, stadiums, and leagues. In addition, we believe we have benefited from a significant number of word-of-mouth customer referrals. Some of our independent retail locations also engage in their own local advertising which we support.



Customer Care, Billing and Support Systems



We outsource some or all of our customer care, billing, payment processing and logistics to nationally recognized third-party providers.



Our outsourced call centers are staffed with professional, and in some cases bilingual customer service personnel, who are available to assist our customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. Some of these outsourced call centers are located outside the United States, including in Mexico, Antigua, Panama, and the Philippines, which facilitates the efficient provision of customer support to our large customer base, including Spanish-speaking customers. We also provide automated voice response service to assist our customers with routine information requests. On certain of our handsets we also provide an application that allows the user to engage in certain routine customer care functions such as activation, billing inquiries and









payment.



Network Operations





Our switches connect to the public switched telephone network through fiber rings leased from third-parties, which transmit originating and terminating traffic between our equipment and local exchange and long distance carriers. We also have negotiated interconnection agreements with relevant local exchange carriers, or LECs, in our service areas.



We currently use third-party providers for domestic and international long distance services, international SMS interconnection with the public switched network and other carriers, roaming services, and the majority of our backhaul services.



Network Technology





Competition



The retail market for wireless broadband mobile services is highly competitive. We compete directly in each of our metropolitan areas with other facilities- and non-facilities-based wireless broadband mobile and fixed service providers, wireline, Internet, cable, voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, satellite and other communications service providers. We believe that competition for customers among wireless broadband mobile providers is based mostly on price, service area, services and features, handset selection, call quality, customer service and brand recognition.



The current facilities-based wireless broadband mobile industry includes four large national carriers - AT&T, Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel and T-Mobile - and their prepaid affiliates or brands and mobile virtual network operations, or MVNO.











In addition to facilities-based wireless broadband mobile carriers, the wireless broadband mobile industry also includes providers that are solely non-facilities-based MVNOs and some, such as Cricket Communications, which is a combination of facilities-based and non-facilities-based carriers, that contract with wireless network operators to provide a separately branded wireless broadband mobile service. In some cases these MVNOs have business arrangements with one of the other major nationwide wireless broadband mobile service providers, which may give them access to a more extensive network than ours and we believe at lower prices than we pay for roaming for access to service out of our service areas. These MVNOs offer competitive service plans similar to the service plans we provide in addition to offering more traditional prepaid plans that charge by the minute.



The wireless broadband industry also includes other new entrant facilities-based providers such as Clearwire and Dish Network. Clearwire has announced that it is building an LTE network, in addition to its WiMax network, using spectrum predominately in the 2.5 GHz range to construct a national network to provide wireless data and telecommunications services. Sprint has recently announced a bid to acquire the remaining ownership interests in Clearwire that it currently does not hold, which would significantly increase Sprint's spectrum holdings. Dish Network, or DISH, in 2012 closed a transaction to acquire 40 MHz of mobile satellite services spectrum. In December 2012, the FCC issued an order allowing DISH to offer terrestrial-only service over this spectrum, which would allow DISH to be able to fully compete with terrestrial wireless broadband mobile services, including our wireless broadband mobile services, and requiring DISH to construct terrestrial wireless broadband networks covering 40% of the population of the United States in five years and 70% in seven years.  This construction requirement could cause DISH to construct networks and offer competing services sooner than it otherwise might have done so on its own.



The wireline voice and broadband industry also is dominated by large well-financed incumbent carriers, such as AT&T and Verizon. Large cable companies, competitive local exchange carriers and VoIP service providers also provide competition for wireline voice and broadband services. The cable industry also is dominated by large carriers such as Time Warner Cable, Comcast and Cox Communications. These cable companies, along with cable company Bright House Networks, formed a joint venture called SpectrumCo LLC, or SpectrumCo, which recently entered into agreements under which Verizon Wireless and the owners of SpectrumCo would jointly market and/or resell each other's services and jointly develop certain wireless technology.



In the future, we may face increased competition from other mobile satellite service, or MSS, providers, and from resellers of these services. In addition to the flexibility provided to DISH on its MSS spectrum, the FCC has also granted some MSS providers the flexibility to deploy an ancillary terrestrial component, or ATC, to their satellite services. This added flexibility, which has been granted to some and may be granted to other MSS operators, may enhance their ability to offer more competitive mobile services. As a result, while their future plans are uncertain, these MSS operators may compete with services we sell or plan to sell or may sell or lease their spectrum to others, including new entrants, who may compete with us. In addition, several satellite companies, computer companies, and Internet search and portal companies have indicated an interest in establishing next generation wireless networks, and certain VoIP providers have indicated that in the future they may acquire FCC licenses or use unlicensed spectrum to offer wireless services to compete directly with us. For example, Google has announced plans to offer broadband wireless data services using fiber in Kansas City, Kansas and Missouri. Google has publicly announced that the goal is to provide data at a speed of one gigabit per second, which is considerably faster than our









wireless broadband mobile services. The FCC also has adopted an order that allows companies to provide wireless services on an unlicensed basis in certain unused portions of the television spectrum. Further, we also may face competition from new entrants and others using exclusively licensed or unlicensed spectrum. Additionally, we may compete in the future with companies that offer new technologies and market other services we do not offer or may not be available with our network technology, from our vendors or within our spectrum. Some of our competitors bundle, or may bundle, these other services together with their wireless communications service, which customers may find more attractive. For example, the owners of SpectrumCo, Cox and Verizon have entered agreements with Verizon that would allow each to sell the services of the other. Some energy companies and utility companies also are expanding their services to offer telecommunications and broadband services.



Congress passed legislation in 2012 which would require the FCC to auction and license up to 65 MHz of spectrum by early 2015 and to reallocate and conduct another auction within nine years for an additional 42 MHz of spectrum including spectrum at 470 MHz to 512 MHz which currently is used by public safety. Further, Congress has provided the FCC with authority to conduct incentive auctions including incentive auctions for spectrum currently held by digital television, or DTV, stations and the legislation requires the FCC to conduct the incentive auctions for DTV spectrum by 2022.  In fall 2012, the FCC initiated proceedings to prepare for and seek comment on such DTV incentive auction.  The FCC also has the authority to allocate spectrum on an unlicensed basis, including up to 195 MHz of unlicensed spectrum in the 5 GHz band. The FCC recently released a notice of proposed rulemaking, or NPRM, proposing to authorize 150 MHz of spectrum in the 3.5-3.65 GHz spectrum band for use in small cells and unlicensed operations. This spectrum could allow new entrants to acquire, construct and operate networks in competition with us and also could allow existing competitors to increase their spectrum holdings which might allow them to offer services that we cannot offer or have lower costs than we incur to provide similar services.  Finally, the FCC now has the authority to conduct incentive auctions for spectrum in addition to the DTV spectrum.





There continues to be substantial merger and acquisition activity in the wireless industry. We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, spectrum to enter new metropolitan areas or increase our spectrum holdings in metropolitan areas where we currently offer service. From time to time, we undertake and consider acquisitions of, or other business combinations with, companies in addition to acquisitions of spectrum. From time to time, we also have discussions between us and other companies regarding potential acquisitions, divestitures, other business combinations, or transactions between the companies.  For example, in October 2012, we announced that we had entered into a Business Combination Agreement with T-Mobile USA and Deutsche Telekom to combine our business with T-Mobile USA, which we expect to close in the first half of 2013.



Many of our competitors' resources are substantially greater, and their market shares are larger, than ours. For example, a number of our competitors have significantly greater spectrum, capital, financial, marketing, human capital, distribution and other resources than we do. Additionally, many of our wireless competitors have networks with larger coverage areas, significantly larger spectrum holdings, lower roaming prices, data roaming agreements, offer nationwide calling plans that do not give rise to additional roaming charges for their customers, and offer international voice and data roaming options for their customers. Further, the marginal incremental cost of some of our competitors may be substantially lower than our cost to provide service and may allow such competitors to price their services at rates that we cannot profitably offer. Further, some of our competitors may be able to offer services in combination with other services that we cannot in a “quad play” of voice, data, video, and mobile services.











In some instances, large national wireless broadband mobile services carriers have been reluctant to enter into voice and data roaming agreements at attractive rates with smaller and mid-tier national carriers like us or at all, which limits our ability to serve certain market segments, and recent FCC actions to promote voice and data roaming have not resolved these difficulties. This competitive pressure also may increase as our basic service plans now include nationwide service and data.



All of these factors may detract from our ability to attract customers from certain market demographics and may require us to add additional features or services to our existing service plans, or make other changes to our service plans, including pricing and usage, or offer promotions or other price concessions to customers.



Inflation



We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our operations.



Seasonality



Our customer activity is influenced by seasonal effects related to traditional retail selling periods and other factors that arise from our target customer base. Based on historical results, we generally expect our net customer additions to be strongest in the first and fourth quarters. Softening of sales and increased customer turnover, or churn, in the second and third calendar quarters of the year usually combine to result in fewer net customer additions or in net customer losses. However, sales activity and churn can be strongly affected by the launch of new metropolitan areas, introduction of new price plans, competition, delays in tax refunds and other government benefits, general economic conditions and by promotional activity, which could reduce, accentuate, increase or outweigh certain seasonal effects. For a more detailed discussion of seasonality in our business, please read “MetroPCS Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Seasonality.”



Employees



As of December 31, 2012, we have approximately 3,700 employees. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or represented by an employee union.



Regulation



The wireless communications industry is regulated extensively by the federal government and, to varying degrees, by state and local governments. Congress, state legislatures, municipalities, and various federal, state and local regulatory bodies have enacted, and may in the future enact, legislation, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations, and administrative decisions, and courts have issued judicial decisions, orders and decrees, affecting the communications industry. The political, legislative, regulatory and judicial climates affecting the communications industry have been, and are expected in the future to remain, in a state of constant flux.



Federal Regulation













Broadband spectrum allocations



We utilize paired radio spectrum licensed by the FCC to provide our wireless broadband mobile services to our customers. The FCC has allocated paired broadband spectrum in a variety of different bands, spectrum bandwidths, and geographic license areas, and we and many of our competitors utilize a combination of spectrum in the various bands to provide wireless services. The principal terrestrially allocated spectrum bands below 3 GHz used to provide, or that could be used to provide, terrestrial broadband wireless mobile services in the United States competitive with the services we offer are described below:



Cellular spectrum. The FCC has assigned two cellular licenses with 25 MHz of spectrum each in the 800 MHz band on a metropolitan statistical area, or MSA, and rural service area, or RSA, basis. There are 306 MSAs and 428 RSAs in the United States. MSAs and RSAs are defined by the Office of Management and Budget, or OMB, and the FCC, respectively.



PCS spectrum. The FCC has assigned licenses to use 130 MHz of radio spectrum in the 1.9 GHz band for PCS. The PCS spectrum has been licensed in a variety of bandwidths (30 MHz, 15 MHz and 10 MHz) and market areas (nationwide, major trading areas or MTAs and basic trading areas or BTAs). Under the broadband PCS licensing plan, the United States and its possessions and territories are divided into 493 BTAs, all of which are included within 51 MTAs. Both MTAs and BTAs are defined by Rand McNally & Company, with certain modifications adopted by the FCC.



SMR spectrum. The FCC has licensed 19 MHz of specialized mobile radio, or SMR spectrum, plus an additional 7.5 megahertz of spectrum that is available for SMR as well as other services. FCC policy permits flexible use of this spectrum, including the provision of enhanced mobile wireless services. This includes post-800 MHz band reconfiguration spectrum.



AWS-1 spectrum. The FCC has assigned 90 MHz of spectrum for AWS. The FCC divided the 90 MHz of spectrum into two 10 MHz and one 20 MHz paired blocks assigned on a regional economic area grouping, or REAG, basis; one 10 MHz and one 20 MHz paired blocks each assigned on an economic area, or EA, basis; and a 20 MHz paired block assigned on a Cellular Marketing Area, or CMA, basis. The CMAs generally correspond to MSAs and RSAs. Under the AWS band plan, the United States is divided into 176 EAs, 12 REAGs, and 734 CMAs. The EAs are geographic areas defined by the Regional Economic Analysis Division of the Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce, as supplemented by the FCC. REAGs are collections of EAs.



AWS-2 spectrum.  The FCC has allocated 10 MHz of spectrum for AWS (otherwise known as the H Block).  The FCC in December 2012 initiated a rulemaking to establish service rules for the AWS-2 spectrum, including proposals to license the AWS-2 spectrum on an EA basis and to require the licensee to provide service to at least 40% of the population in a licensed area within four years of grant and 70% by the end of the 10 year term.  The FCC has stated its intent to assign the AWS-2 spectrum through competitive bidding in 2013.



700 MHz spectrum. The FCC has assigned 62 MHz of spectrum for commercial use in the 700 MHz band. The FCC divided this spectrum into two 12 MHz paired blocks, one 6 MHz unpaired block licensed on a CMA or EA basis; one 6 MHz unpaired block licensed on an Economic Area Grouping, or EAG, basis; one 22 MHz paired block licensed on a REAG basis, 4 MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz guard band. Holders of the 22 MHz licenses, most of which are held by one of our larger nationwide competitors, must provide a network platform that is generally open to third-party wireless devices and applications, or an Open Network Platform, by allowing consumers to use the handset of their choice and to download and use the applications of their choice, subject to certain network management conditions that are intended to allow the licensee to protect the network from harm.



BRS spectrum. In 2004, the FCC ordered that 194 MHz of spectrum in the 2496-2690 MHz band, or the 2.5 GHz band, be reconfigured over a period of time into upper and lower-band segments for low-power operations, with a mid-band segment for high-power operations. This spectrum is allocated and licensed in the United States and its possessions and territories in 493 BTAs. The FCC concluded in 2008 that 55.5 MHz of the broadband radio service, or BRS, spectrum holdings in the 2.5 GHz band will be included in the FCC's product market for mobile telephony/broadband services, and taken into consideration when the FCC is assessing the competitive impact of broadband wireless merger and acquisition transactions.



WCS spectrum. In 2010, the FCC adopted rules relating to 30 MHz of spectrum in the 2305-2320 MHz and 2345-2360 MHz bands, or the WCS spectrum, which accord licensees greater flexibility to offer, among other services, mobile broadband services. The WCS spectrum initially was auctioned in 1997 into four license blocks. Two 5 MHz paired channels were auctioned on a major economic area, or MEA, basis and two unpaired 5 MHz channels were auctioned on a REAG basis. MEAs are a collection of EAs. In October 2012, the FCC adopted a further order to provide additional flexibility for WCS licenses to provide mobile broadband services. Under the recently adopted rules, WCS licensees are subject to revised









construction requirements. A significant portion of this spectrum is held by, or under contract to be purchased by, AT&T.



AWS-4 spectrum.The FCC has authorized mobile satellite licenses to use 40 MHz of the 2 GHz mobile satellite spectrum on exclusive terrestrial basis. This spectrum is currently held by a single licensee, DISH.



Future allocations. The FCC has certain broadband wireless spectrum allocation proceedings in process. For example, the FCC is considering service rules for an additional 10 MHz of paired AWS spectrum, or the J-Block, in the 2020-2025 MHz and 2175-2180 MHz bands, as well as 20 MHz of unpaired AWS spectrum, or AWS-3, in the 2155-2175 MHz band. The FCC also is considering whether the unpaired AWS-3 spectrum could be paired in either a symmetrical or asymmetrical basis with other spectrum to create more paired spectrum. Both the J-Block and AWS-3 have been allocated for advanced fixed and mobile services, including AWS. The FCC and interested parties have proposed that these blocks of spectrum be subject to various conditions, configurations and terms and conditions. Congress recently passed legislation which would require the FCC to auction and license up to 65 MHz of spectrum, including AWS-3 and up to 15 MHz of AWS-2 and the J-Block, by early 2015. The FCC in December 2012 proposed to allocate 150 MHz of spectrum in the 3.5 GHz-3.65 GHz band to be used for small cells and on an unlicensed basis. Further, Congress has provided the FCC with authority to conduct incentive auctions for both spectrum currently held by DTV stations and others, and the legislation requires the FCC to conduct the incentive auctions for DTV spectrum by 2022.



Backhaul. We also use paired and unpaired microwave spectrum to transport our traffic between our cell sites and our switches and enhanced packet core facilities. This spectrum is licensed on both a point-to-point basis and on a BTA basis.





License term















Subject to applicable conditions, all of our licenses may be renewed at the end of their terms. Our initial broadband PCS licenses for San Francisco, Sacramento, Miami and Atlanta were granted in 1997, were renewed in 2007 and are subject to renewal in January 2017; our other broadband PCS licenses are subject to renewal from 2015 to 2021; our AWS licenses were granted in November 2007 and are subject to renewal in November 2021; and our 700 MHz license was granted in June 2008 and is subject to renewal in June 2019. We intend to file renewal applications for our licenses when the renewal filing windows open. The next wireless broadband PCS license that needs to be renewed expires in 2015.



The FCC will award a renewal expectancy with respect to licenses held by broadband commercial mobile radio service, or CMRS, licensees if the licensee meets specific performance standards. To receive a renewal expectancy, we must show that we have provided substantial service using such license during our past license term, and have substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. If we receive a renewal expectancy with respect to our existing licenses, it is very likely that the FCC will renew our existing licenses. If we do not receive a renewal expectancy with respect to our existing licenses, the FCC, in certain instances, may accept competing applications for the license renewal period, subject to a comparative hearing, and may award the license for the next term to another entity. The FCC also may deny license renewal applications for cause after appropriate notice and hearing.  We believe we will be awarded a renewal expectancy with respect to each of our broadband PCS and AWS licenses.



In 2011, the FCC released an NPRM proposing to establish more consistent requirements for renewal of licenses, uniform policies governing discontinuances of service, and to clarify certain construction obligations across all of the wireless service bands. The proposed changes to the applicable renewal and discontinuance of service requirements may be applied to existing licenses that will be renewed in the future. If more stringent requirements are applied retroactively to our existing licenses, the FCC may determine that prior actions, or inactions, of ours, or of our predecessors in interest, jeopardize the renewal of our licenses. We are unable to predict with any certainty the likely timing or outcome of this wireless renewal standards proceeding.



Construction obligations



The FCC has established various construction obligations for wireless licenses with different requirements often applying to spectrum licensed at different points in time. For example, broadband PCS licensees holding licenses originally granted as 30 MHz licenses must construct facilities to provide service covering one-third of the population of the licensed area within five years, and two-thirds of the population of the licensed area within ten years, or otherwise provide substantial service to the licensed area within the appropriate five- and ten-year benchmarks of their initial license grant date. Broadband PCS licensees holding 10 MHz and 15 MHz licenses generally must construct facilities to provide service to 25% of the licensed area within five years of their initial license grant date, or otherwise make a showing of substantial service. Either we, or the prior licensees for acquired licenses, satisfied the applicable five-year coverage requirement for each of our broadband PCS licenses and the ten-year requirement for those PCS licenses that already have been renewed. AWS licenses are required to construct facilities to provide substantial service by the end of the initial 15-year license term. The FCC defines substantial service as service which is sound, favorable and substantially above a mediocre service level only minimally warranting renewal.



The 700 MHz licenses are subject to more stringent performance requirements. The FCC in February 2013 granted all Lower Block A 700MHz licensees a waiver from the requirement to provide wireless coverage to 35% of the geographic area of our licensed EA by June 2013, until December 2013.  Absent the FCC granting us any further relief, to avoid any possible loss of rights in connection with our 700 MHz licenses, we would need to provide wireless coverage to 35% of the geographic area of our licensed EA by December 2013, and 70% of the licensed geographic area by the end of the license term. MetroPCS continues to have a waiver of this interim construction requirement before the FCC. Our 700 MHz license has an adjacent digital television station, with which under FCC rules we must not interfere. This requirement will make construction of this license difficult and, to date, we have been unable to reach an accommodation with the television operator and our ability to do so in the future is uncertain at best. While the FCC occasionally has granted brief extensions to, and limited waivers of, license construction requirements, and we have requested an extension, we cannot determine at this time whether any such further relief will be granted.



The FCC also may adopt more stringent build-out requirements, impose sanctions on licensees which do not meet construction thresholds, or create incentives for licensees to accelerate their build-out as a result of the FCC's concern over a shortage of needed broadband wireless spectrum. The FCC also could act on its NPRM and impose more stringent renewal and discontinuance of service requirements, and apply those changes retroactively to existing licenses that will be renewed in the future.











Revocation of licenses



The FCC may deny applications for FCC licenses, deny renewal of FCC licenses, and revoke FCC licenses, in extreme cases where a licensee is found to have failed to meet the applicable licensing standards, failed to meet FCC or abide by FCC rules, regulations, orders or statutes, or lack the requisite qualifications to be a licensee. For example, the FCC may revoke a license or deny an application of an entity found in a judicial or administrative proceeding to have, or to be controlled by persons or parties who have, knowingly or repeatedly engaged in conduct which is a felony under federal or state law, possession or sale of illegal drugs, fraud, antitrust violations or unfair competition, employment discrimination, misrepresentations to the FCC or other government agencies, serious violations of the Communications Act or FCC regulations, or a failure to meet construction obligations. If any FCC license of ours is denied or revoked for cause, this action may have an impact on the retention of existing or the renewal of existing licenses, or in our ability to secure additional spectrum in the future, via auctions or through assignments in connection with private transactions with third parties.



Transfer and assignment of FCC licenses



The Communications Act requires prior FCC approval for assignments or transfers of control of any license or construction permit, with limited exceptions. In granting FCC approval for assignments or transfers, the FCC may impose conditions, limitations, restrictions, or requirements which it finds to be in the public interest. To date, we have managed to secure FCC consent to a variety of assignments and transfers without undue delay or the imposition of conditions, limitations, restrictions, or requirements outside of the ordinary course. If we are acquired, or acquire another entity, or experience a change in control, the FCC may disapprove the transfer of control or assignment, impose conditions, limitations, restrictions, or requirements or otherwise require divestitures of some or all of our spectrum, licenses, or other assets. We have filed transfer of control applications with respect to the T-Mobile Transaction with respect to our licenses, but we can give no assurance when or if the FCC will consent to such transfer of control or if it will impose conditions on such consent.



Disaggregation, partitioning and spectrum leasing



The FCC allows spectrum and geographic license areas to be subdivided, partitioned, or disaggregated, geographically or by bandwidth, with each resulting license covering a smaller license area and/or including less spectrum. Any such partition or disaggregation is subject to FCC approval, which historically has been granted, but cannot be guaranteed. The FCC also has adopted policies to facilitate development of a secondary market for unused or underused wireless spectrum by permitting the leasing of spectrum to third parties. These policies provide us, new entrants, and our competitors with alternative means to obtain additional spectrum and allow us to dispose of excess spectrum, subject to FCC approval and applicable FCC conditions.



Spectrum and market concentration limits



The FCC has certain policies intended to prevent undue concentration of the terrestrial wireless broadband mobile services market. For example, the FCC applies heightened scrutiny to transactions in which wireless spectrum is being assigned or transferred whenever both parties to the transaction hold spectrum suitable for wireless broadband mobile services in the same or in an overlapping area. At present, the FCC will screen a transaction for competitive concerns if, upon consummation, the acquirer, and any affiliated group whose spectrum is attributed to the acquirer, holds more than a certain amount of spectrum in a single market, or if there would be a material change in the post-transaction market share concentrations as measured by the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index. The amount of spectrum attributed to a licensee for spectrum screening purposes in a particular geographic area depends on the availability of certain spectrum in that geographic area. The FCC previously has revised its spectrum screen in the context of its review of certain transactions, and it may do so again in the future. This screen also applies to spectrum acquired via auction. These benchmarks are subject to pending reconsideration proceedings at the FCC.



The FCC released an NPRM in October 2012 seeking comment on whether to use a different method to determine undue concentration with respect to spectrum holdings, including whether to eliminate the case-by-case application of a spectrum screen in favor of a bright-line spectrum cap.  We are unable to predict with any certainty the likely timing or outcome of this proceeding.



We are well below the current spectrum aggregation screen in all of the geographic areas in which we hold licenses, which means that the FCC's spectrum concentration policies should not prevent us from acquiring additional spectrum either by auction or in private transactions, and we may be able to be acquired by certain other carriers. In addition, in connection with the T-Mobile Transaction, our spectrum holdings when combined with T-Mobile are less than the current spectrum screen in each area where we hold licenses. However, the FCC's current retention of a case-by-case approach to spectrum acquisition and









the continuing revision upward of the spectrum screen may allow our competitors to make additional acquisitions of spectrum and further improve their relative spectrum positions and competitive strength. Some of our competitors may have spectrum holdings close to, at, or over the spectrum screen amount in the areas licensed to us and any acquisition of us or spectrum from us by such competitors may not be approved or divesture may be required which could deter such competitors from acquiring us or engaging in spectrum swaps or transactions with us, or could limit the price they may be willing to pay to acquire us.



Foreign ownership restrictions





The currently pending Proposed Transaction with Deutsche Telekom will require us to obtain a declaratory ruling regarding the FCC foreign ownership requirements before we can consummate the Proposed Transaction.  We have filed an application seeking such a declaratory ruling, but we cannot give any assurance that the declaratory ruling will be granted, when it will be granted, or that the Proposed Transaction will close.



General regulatory obligations



The Communications Act and the FCC's rules impose a number of requirements on wireless broadband mobile services licensees. A failure to meet or maintain compliance with the Communications Act and the FCC's rules could subject us to fines, forfeitures, penalties, license revocations, license conditions, or other sanctions, including the imposition of mandatory reporting requirements, compliance or training programs or corporate monitoring, or limitations on our ability to participate in future FCC auctions or to acquire spectrum.



CMRS classification. Certain of our wireless broadband mobile services are classified at the federal level as CMRS. The FCC regulates providers of CMRS services as common carriers, which subjects us to many requirements under the Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations when we provide such services. The FCC, however, has exempted CMRS services from some typical common carrier regulations, such as tariff and interstate certification filings, which allows us and our competitors to respond more quickly to competition in the marketplace. The FCC also is encouraged by federal law to reduce unreasonable disparities in the regulatory treatment of similar wireless broadband mobile services, such as cellular, broadband PCS, AWS, 700 MHz, and Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio, or ESMR, services.  Federal law also preempts state rate and entry regulation of CMRS providers, but allows states to regulate the other terms and conditions of service.



The FCC has found, for the time being, that wireless broadband Internet access service offered at speeds in excess of 200 kbps in at least one direction, which would include our 4G LTE services and certain of our CDMA services, is an information service under the Communications Act, and thus is not subject to traditional common carrier regulation. In addition, the FCC has found that the transmission component of wireless broadband Internet access service meets the definition of telecommunications under the Communications Act and that the offering of a telecommunications transmission component as part of a functionally integrated Internet access service offering is not a regulated telecommunications service, but rather as an information service, under the Communications Act. Further, the FCC has found that wireless broadband mobile Internet access service is not a “commercial mobile service” under Section 332 of the Communications Act. Consequently, carriers offering wireless broadband mobile Internet access services are not considered common carriers and have no common carrier obligations with respect to this service. Accordingly, as a result of such classification decisions, we and our competitors generally have greater flexibility in establishing the terms and conditions, including pricing, of this service than we do for services classified as common carrier services. However, these classification decisions could change over time, either as a









result of FCC or Congressional actions, in an effort to assure that competing services are subject to comparable regulatory requirements. For example, the FCC has adopted rules, commonly referred to as the “Net Neutrality” or “Open Internet” rules, subjecting wireless broadband mobile Internet access providers, such as us, to certain transparency requirements, and certain restrictions on the blocking of access to lawful websites and some third party applications, subject to our ability to engage in reasonable network management practices.  These rules could limit our ability to provide certain services, require us not to block customers' access to services competitive with our voice and video telephone services, and could limit our ability to establish the terms and conditions, including pricing, of Internet access offered by us. See “-Network Management and Net Neutrality.”



The FCC permits wireless broadband mobile services licensees to offer fixed services on a co-primary basis along with mobile services. This facilitates the provision of wireless local loop service by CMRS licensees using wireless links to provide local telephone service. The extent of lawful state regulation of such wireless local loop service is undetermined. While we do not presently offer a fixed service, our network can accommodate such an offering. We continue to evaluate our service offerings, and may offer a fixed service at some point in the future, which may subject us to additional state regulation.



Roaming. The FCC requires CMRS providers to permit customers of other carriers to roam “manually” on their networks, for example, by supplying a credit card number, as long as the roaming customer's handset is technically capable with the roamed-on network. The FCC also has ruled that providing automatic voice roaming is a common carrier obligation for CMRS carriers and, as a result, CMRS carriers are legally obligated to provide certain automatic voice roaming services to other CMRS carriers upon reasonable request and on a just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory basis pursuant to Sections 201 and 202 of the Communications Act.



In assessing whether a request is reasonable, the FCC will consider the totality of the circumstances and may use a number of factors, including the technical compatibility of the roamer, the extent of the requesting carrier's build-out where it holds spectrum, and whether alternative roaming partners are available, to determine whether a particular roaming request is reasonable. Our potential roaming partners may utilize these factors to deny requests by us for automatic voice roaming services for our customers.  Specifically, this automatic voice roaming obligation extends to services such as ours that are real-time, two-way switched voice or data services, such as short message services, that are interconnected with the public switched network and utilize an in-network switching facility that enables the provider to reuse frequencies and accomplish seamless hand-offs of subscriber calls. Automatic voice roaming rights are important to us because we provide service in a limited number of metropolitan areas in the United States and must rely on other carriers in order to allow our customers to receive services outside our existing metropolitan areas. All the service plans we now offer to new subscribers (and to all existing customers who opt-in) include service coverage outside where we have constructed our network or where we do not have licenses to provide service.



In 2011, the FCC found that the automatic roaming obligation should be extended to services that are classified as information services (such as high speed wireless broadband mobile Internet access services) or to services that are not CMRS. The FCC found that such automatic data roaming, while not a common carrier service, nonetheless shall be offered by the providers of such services on a commercially reasonable basis, when technologically compatible and technologically feasible. In doing so, the FCC may use a number of factors to determine the commercial reasonableness of a request for such services, including the technical compatibility of the roamer, the extent of the requesting carrier's build-out where it holds spectrum, and whether alternative roaming partners are available, to determine whether a particular roaming request is reasonable. If we are unable to obtain automatic data roaming at reasonable rates, we could have difficulty attracting and retaining certain groups of customers, especially customers using Smartphones, including Android handsets, or using our 4G LTE services.



In its approval of the Verizon Wireless purchase of Alltel Wireless, the FCC imposed conditions on Verizon Wireless that allow carriers like us who had roaming agreements with both Verizon Wireless and Alltel Wireless to choose which agreement would govern all traffic exchanged with the post-merger Verizon Wireless until January 2013. We have elected to have the Alltel Wireless roaming agreement govern all of our roaming traffic with the combined Verizon Wireless-Alltel. We and others have asked the FCC to clarify these requirements, to extend the current commitment to January 2016 and to require post-merger Verizon Wireless to offer automatic roaming for data services and features on a non-discriminatory basis. The FCC has not acted on this extension request and, to date, Verizon Wireless has not agreed to negotiate modified terms or an extended date for the current agreement or to include data services at attractive rates.



National broadband plan. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or Recovery Act, required the FCC to coordinate with NTIA, to establish a National Broadband Plan and benchmarks designed to ensure that all people of the United States have access to broadband capability. The resulting National Broadband Plan, which was released on March 16, 2010, makes numerous recommendations to the FCC, Congress and other regulatory agencies in an effort to promote broadband deployment. For instance, as noted above, the National Broadband Plan recommends that the FCC make available 500 MHz of









additional spectrum for mobile broadband wireless services within the next ten years, of which 300 MHz is recommended to be made available for mobile use within five years. The National Broadband Plan also makes recommendations regarding FCC action in the areas of intercarrier compensation, universal service, increasing competition, and a number of other regulatory issues. The FCC has initiated various regulatory proceedings in an effort to implement certain recommendations in the National Broadband Plan and the FCC has acted on some of these recommendations, but the timing of any FCC action on the pending regulatory proceedings and the remaining recommendations is uncertain. See “-Interconnection” and “-Universal Service Fund.”



Network management and net neutrality



Interconnection.



The substantial revision of the intercarrier compensation scheme by the FCC in 2011 is beneficial to us in several respects, but there is some uncertainty whether the rules will be upheld.  The rules have been appealed by numerous parties, and we have intervened in the appeal on the side of the FCC.  The timing and outcome of the appeal proceeding are uncertain at this time.



Access. In order to offer domestic and international long distance services to our customers, we resell domestic and international long distance services provided by third parties. Those third parties are obligated to pay compensation to the telecommunications carriers who terminate our subscribers' long distance calls. Historically, CMRS carriers generally have not been entitled to receive direct access payments for the long distance calls they terminate absent voluntary agreement.  In contrast, wireline companies are generally paid to terminate long distance traffic, which can give them the incentive to artificially stimulate traffic. The FCC has concluded that certain traffic stimulation activities of LECs, which are alleged to generate excessive access fees for switched access traffic and which could affect compensation for interstate traffic delivered









by CMRS carriers to LECs, are not reasonable. In October 2011, the FCC adopted measures to decrease traffic stimulation. If such measures are successful, they may reduce the rate we are obligated to pay for long distance services.  In addition, the FCC has adopted interexchange access rate reductions which reduce the amount interexchange carriers are required to pay local exchange carriers to complete domestic long distance calls. These rules also have been appealed in the same proceeding as the intercarrier compensation order and the timing and the outcome of such proceeding are uncertain at this time.



Universal service fund (USF)



Eligible telecommunications carriers



Services to persons with disabilities. Telecommunications carriers are required to make their services reasonably accessible to persons with disabilities. These FCC rules generally require service providers to offer equipment and services accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, if readily achievable, and to comply with FCC-mandated complaint/grievance procedures. These rules are largely untested and are subject to interpretation through the FCC's complaint process. These rules focus mainly on requirements that must be met by the manufacturers of wireless equipment, but a certain percentage of our handsets must be hearing aid compatible and we have reporting requirements. In addition, we are required to offer these hearing aid-compatible wireless phones for each air interface we provide. As a result, this requirement may limit our ability to offer services using new air interfaces, may limit the number of handsets we can offer, or may increase the costs of handsets for those new air interfaces.











In October 2010, the President signed into law the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010, or the Accessibility Act. The Accessibility Act is intended to ensure that individuals with disabilities have access to emerging Internet-protocol-based communication and video programming technologies in the 21st Century, by updating requirements of television, telephone, and Internet service providers. These new obligations govern the provision of advanced communications services, including interconnected and non-interconnected VoIP services, to persons with disabilities, record-keeping related to adherence to these policies, and the provision of Internet browsers suitable for blind or visually-impaired individuals. The Accessibility Act requires the FCC to implement its provisions, and the FCC has issued a series of public notices and order seeking comment on, and implementing aspects of the Accessibility Act.  We also have reporting requirements related to such requirements.



E-911 service



Spectrum clearing. Spectrum allocated for AWS has been utilized by a variety of categories of commercial and governmental users. For example, the AWS-1 spectrum we hold was utilized by certain governmental users, many of whom are required over time to relocate from the AWS-1 spectrum. However, in some cases, not all incumbent users have relocated or are obligated to relocate and, in other cases, may not be obligated to relocate for some period of time, with varying time frames for relocation. To foster the orderly clearing of the spectrum, the FCC adopted a transition and cost sharing plan pursuant to which incumbent non-governmental users are reimbursed for relocating to other spectrum and with the costs of relocation being shared by AWS-1 licensees benefiting from the relocation. Under the FCC relocation plan, the AWS-1 licensee and the incumbent non-governmental user negotiate voluntarily for three years and then, if no agreement has been reached, the incumbent licensee is subject to mandatory relocation procedures in which the AWS-1 licensee can relocate the incumbent non-governmental licensee at the AWS-1 licensee's expense. Since our AWS licenses were granted in 2006, the time period for voluntary negotiations has lapsed and the prior licenses are obligated to move.



Siting issues. The location and characteristics of wireless antennas, DAS systems and nodes, base stations and towers are subject to FCC and Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, regulations, federal environmental regulations, and other federal, state, and local regulations, including local zoning, building, and electrical requirements. The FCC has adopted rules that are intended to expedite siting decisions by state and local authorities, but the rules are the subject of an appeal currently pending before the United States Supreme Court.  We cannot predict with any certainty the timing or outcome of such appeal.  With respect to AWS-1 sites, we must notify the FAA when we add AWS-1 frequencies to existing sites that already have been determined not to be a hazard to air navigation by the FAA. Antenna structures used by us and other wireless providers also are subject to FCC rules implementing the National Environmental Policy Act and the National Historic Preservation Act. Under these rules, construction cannot begin on any structure that may significantly affect the human environment, or that may affect historic properties, until the wireless provider has filed an environmental assessment with and obtained approval from the FCC or a local agency. Processing of environmental assessments can delay construction of tower and antenna facilities, particularly









if the FCC or local agency determines that additional information is required or if community opposition arises. In addition, several environmental groups have requested various changes to the FCC's environmental processing rules, challenged specific environmental assessments as failing statutory requirements and sought to have the FCC conduct a comprehensive assessment of the environmental effects of antenna tower construction. The FCC also has been ordered by the Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit to further consider the impact that communications facilities, including wireless towers and antennas, may have on migratory birds, and the FCC recently issued an order adopting procedures to mitigate such concerns. In the meantime, there are a variety of federal and state court actions in which citizen and environmental groups have sought to deny individual tower approvals based upon potential adverse impacts to migratory birds. Compliance with these rules and regulations has not had a significant impact on us from a financial or competitive position; however, we cannot be certain of what changes may occur that could have an impact on us in the future or whether certain groups may be successful in their endeavors.



Communications assistance for law enforcement act (CALEA). Federal law requires CMRS carriers to assist law enforcement agencies with lawful wiretaps, and imposes wiretap-related record-keeping and personnel-related obligations on us.  CALEA establishes a safe harbor for compliance if a carrier complies with industry standards for the services provided.  Regulatory standards have been developed for switched voice and packet data services, but have not been adopted with respect to new services, such as rich communication services or VoLTE.  Historically, our customer base may have been, and may continue to be, subject to a greater percentage of law enforcement requests than those of other carriers and, as a result, our compliance expenses may be proportionately greater.  As our services evolve, we will have to ensure that our services continue to meet CALEA requirements and any new standards that are adopted.  As these standards develop we may have to expand capital expenditures and other costs to remain in compliance with CALEA.



Number administration. Because demand is increasing for a finite pool of telephone numbers, the FCC has adopted number pooling rules that govern how telephone numbers are allocated. Number pooling is mandatory inside the wireline rate centers that are located in counties included in the top 100 MSAs. We have implemented number pooling procedures and support pooled number roaming in all of our metropolitan areas which are in the top 100 MSAs. The FCC also has authorized states to supplement federal numbering requirements in certain respects and some of the states where we provide service have been authorized by the FCC to engage in limited numbering administration. Our ability to access telephone numbers on a timely basis is important for our ability to continue to grow our business.



Regulatory fees. We are obligated to pay certain annual regulatory fees and assessments to support FCC wireless industry regulation, as well as fees supporting federal universal service programs, number portability, regional database costs, centralized telephone numbering administration, telecommunications relay service for the hearing-impaired and application filing fees. These fees are subject to change periodically by the FCC and the manner in which carriers may recoup these fees from customers is subject to various restrictions. In January 2010, we launched tax and regulatory fees inclusive, flat-rate service plans where we include these fees in the rates of our service plans.  As a result, we may be disproportionately adversely impacted by periodic increases in regulatory fees and other assessments.



Number portability. The FCC has ordered all telecommunications carriers, including CMRS carriers, to support telephone number portability which enables subscribers to keep their telephone numbers when they change telecommunications carriers, whether wireless to wireless or, in some instances, wireline to wireless, and vice versa. Under these local number portability rules, a CMRS carrier located in one of the top 100 MSAs must have the technology in place to allow its customers to keep their telephone numbers when they switch to a new carrier. Outside of the top 100 MSAs, CMRS carriers receiving a request to allow end users to keep their telephone numbers must be capable of doing so within six months of the request. All CMRS carriers are required to support nationwide roaming for customers retaining their numbers.



Equal access. At present, CMRS carriers are exempt from the obligation to provide equal access to interstate long distance carriers. However, the FCC has the authority to impose rules requiring unblocked access through carrier identification codes or 800/888 numbers to long distance carriers so CMRS customers are not denied access to their chosen long distance carrier, if the FCC determines the public interest so requires. Our customers have access to alternative long distance carriers using toll-free numbers.



Customer proprietary network information (CPNI). FCC rules impose restrictions on a telecommunications carrier's use of customer proprietary network information, or CPNI, without prior customer approval, including restrictions on the use of information related to a customer's location. These rules are broad in scope and require us not only to protect customer information ourselves, but also to take steps to make sure that our agents and contractors protect this information. CMRS carriers must take reasonable measures to discover and protect against pretexting and, in enforcement proceedings, the FCC will infer from evidence of unauthorized disclosures of CPNI that reasonable protections were not taken. The FCC has imposed substantial fines on certain wireless carriers for their failure to comply with the FCC's CPNI rules and this continues to be an area of active regulatory oversight. The FCC previously conducted a broad scale investigation into whether CMRS carriers are









properly protecting the CPNI of their customers against unauthorized disclosure to third parties and may conduct further investigations in the future.



Congress and state legislators also have passed, and may pass, legislation governing the use and protection of CPNI and other personal information. For example, Congress enacted the Telephone Records and Privacy Protection Act of 2006, which imposes criminal penalties upon persons who purchase without a customer's consent, or use fraud to gain unauthorized access to, telephone records. In addition, certain states have enacted, and other states and Congress in the future may enact, legislature relating to customer personal information. The recent and pending legislation (if enacted) may require us to change how we protect our customer's CPNI and other personal information.



Tower lighting and painting. The FCC has established rules requiring certain towers and other structures to be painted and lighted to minimize the hazard to air navigation. In addition, we are obligated to notify the FAA if the required lighting at a tower is no longer being maintained. A failure to abide by these requirements could result in the imposition of fines and forfeitures or other liability if an accident occurs. We generally collocate on existing towers and structures owned and operated by others and do not have the right to paint or control the lighting at the site but, as an FCC-licensed carrier at the site, still could be held accountable if the lighting and painting requirements are not met.



Radio frequency limits. The FCC sets limits on radio frequency, or RF, emissions from cell sites and has rules that establish procedures intended to protect persons from RF hazards. We have policies in place designed to comply with the applicable limits and restrictions at cell sites where we have operations, but, given the number of sites involved and the nature of the requirements, we cannot guarantee that we are in compliance at each cell site at all times.



Emergency warning. The FCC has adopted technical standards, protocols, procedures, and other requirements under the Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act, or WARN Act, to govern emergency alerting standards for CMRS providers which voluntarily elect to participate. We have elected to participate in the voluntary emergency alert program and have initiated our mobile alert system, although we could alter our election at a future date. Under the adopted rules, a participating carrier must notify customers of the availability of emergency alerts but may not charge separately for the alerting capability and the CMRS carrier's liability related to, or any harm resulting from, the transmission of, or failure to transmit, an emergency alert is limited.



White spaces. The FCC has adopted rules to allow unlicensed radio transmitters to operate in the unused broadcast digital television spectrum, or White Spaces. The FCC's rules provide for both fixed and personal/portable devices to operate in the White Spaces on an unlicensed basis, subject to various protections to existing users of the spectrum. Policies and industry protocols are in the process of being developed to implement this program. Other companies may offer services in the White Spaces that compete with services offered by us.  It is also unclear how these rules may be changed when the FCC engages in the incentive auctions for broadcast digital television and the recoding of digital television stations following the incentive auction.



Regulatory classifications. In January 2008, the FCC solicited comments on whether text messages and short codes are common carrier services to which CMRS carriers must provide non-discriminatory access. The outcome and such timing of any FCC action, or the effect that such a ruling would have on us, is presently unknown. In 2011, the FCC sought comment on a petition by the Universal Service Fund Administration requesting that the FCC provide guidance as to whether short message services revenues are to be included in a carrier's interstate revenues for the purpose of calculating USF contributions.  Such issue has been included in the FCC proceeding regarding USF contributions.  See “-Universal Service Fund.” Since a significant portion of our customers are on our regulatory and tax unlimited service plans, the outcome of this proceeding could affect our costs.  The outcome of this or the USF proceeding is uncertain at this time.



Outage reporting. The FCC requires all telecommunications carriers to report outages meeting certain specified criteria to the FCC. These reporting requirements are quite stringent and affect the way we track and gather data regarding system outages and repair outages. Outage reporting is subject to active regulatory oversight, and we are potentially subject to fines and forfeitures if we fail to make timely reports. The FCC recently extended these outage reporting rules to voice over internet protocol, or VoIP, service providers, which may include the VoLTE services we provide.



Service during emergencies.  At various times the FCC has initiated inquiries regarding communications service disruptions that have occurred as a result of natural disasters, for example Hurricane Katrina, and other emergencies, such as the 9/11 terrorist attacks.  The FCC is considering whether rules, regulations or policies need to be put in place to improve the reliability and resiliency of the communications network, including possible back up power requirements at some or all sites.  Any such requirements could have an adverse financial impact on us, and the impact could be disproportionately unfavorable because of the number of small DAS cells that we operate.











Customer complaints. The FCC has established a process by which customers of wireless service providers can informally and formally complain about a provider's service. These rules require the wireless service provider to respond to such complaints within a specified period of time. We receive complaints from our customers to the FCC that we respond to or resolve. A failure to respond to any complaints can lead to fines, forfeitures or other penalties.



Interference protection. From time to time, the FCC engages in actions which could increase the amount of interference our networks may experience from third parties.  For example, the FCC allowed increased wireless microphones to operate for a limited time in spectrum that could interfere with a 700 MHz system.  Certain manufacturers of signal boosters have sought confirmation from the FCC that consumers could buy signal boosters which operate on frequencies used by our networks which could interfere with our networks.  The FCC is in the process of evaluating whether signal boosters are allowed to operate on our frequencies and the requirements to ensure that they do not interfere with our system.  The outcome of this proceeding is uncertain at this time.



Other federal regulation



Cyber security.  Congress and the President have recently raised concerns and proposed new legislation focused on protecting United States industry from cyber attacks.  The proposed legislation would provide for voluntary sharing of cyber security information between private industry and the government in addition to adopting certain cyber security requirements.  In addition, the President recently issued an executive order which establishes additional measures for the voluntary sharing of cyber security information, requires certain critical industry participants to adopt certain cyber security measures, and potentially may limit participation in government contracts to companies which have adopted certain cyber security measures.  While we have adopted what we believe are industry standard cyber security measures, such sharing of information and potential new requirements could require that we adopt additional cyber security measures.



Foreign Sourcing.  Congress and regulatory bodies have raised issues and concerns and proposed new legislation limiting the ability of American companies to use certain foreign vendors to supply equipment, materials and other services used in the operation of our business.  Recently members of Congress and certain regulatory agencies have expressed concern with regard to the US trade imbalance with China, the alleged violations of intellectual property rights by Chinese companies and potential security risks purchasing equipment and software from Chinese companies. We currently purchase certain handsets from Chinese companies.  If new legislation or regulation is passed restricting the purchase of goods and services from certain countries, it could limit the companies from which we purchase equipment.



Other. Our operations also are subject to various other federal laws and regulations, including antitrust, privacy, unfair competition, consumer, environmental, labor, wage, health and safety, personal information laws and regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. For example, the construction and operation of telecommunications facilities throughout the U.S. subjects us to a myriad of federal and state environmental laws that create reporting and permitting requirements. These rules and regulations often are complex and subject to change and we could be held responsible for failing to comply.



State, local and other regulation





Various decisions have been rendered by, and other proceedings are pending before, state public utility commissions and courts pertaining to the extent to which the FCC's preemptive rights over CMRS rates and entry prevent states from regulating aspects of wireless service, such as billing policies, our ability to bill for third party's charges incurred by our subscribers,









transfers of licenses, acquisition or sale of wireless businesses, and other consumer issues. These proceedings could subject us to additional state regulation which could cause us to incur additional costs.





Certain states and municipalities in which we provide service or plan to provide service have passed laws prohibiting texting or the use of wireless phones while driving, requiring the use of wireless headsets, or other laws affecting the use or sale of our services. Other states and municipalities may adopt similar restrictions in the future, and one national organization is advocating a total ban on the use of wireless phones while driving.



Certain states in which we provide service are in the process of reviewing proposed legislation that would require persons selling prepaid wireless services, such as ours, to verify a customer's identity using government identification. We currently do not require our subscribers to provide a government issued identification to initiate service with us.



Future regulation



From time to time, federal, state or local government regulators enact new or revise existing legislation or regulations that could affect us, either beneficially or adversely. Ongoing changes in the political and financial climate may foster increased legislation or regulation, which might adversely affect us.



