Item 1. Business



Business Overview



We are the Un-carrier™.  Un-satisfied with the status quo.  Un-afraid to innovate.  T-Mobile is the fastest growing wireless company in the U.S., based on customer growth in 2014, currently providing wireless communications services, including voice, messaging and data, to over55 millioncustomers in the postpaid, prepaid, and wholesale markets.  The Un-carrier proposition is an approach that seeks to listen to the customer, address their pain points, bring innovation to the industry, and improve the wireless experience for all.  In practice, this means offering customers a great service on a nationwide 4G Long-Term Evolution (“LTE”) network, devices when and how they want them, and plans that are simple, affordable and without unnecessary restrictions.  Going forward, we will continue to listen and respond to our customers, refine and improve the Un-carrier proposition, and deliver the best value experience in the industry.











History



T-Mobile USA, Inc. (“T-Mobile USA”) was formed in 1994 as VoiceStream Wireless PCS (“VoiceStream”), a subsidiary of Western Wireless Corporation (“Western Wireless”).  VoiceStream was spun off from Western Wireless in 1999, acquired by Deutsche Telekom AG (“Deutsche Telekom”) in 2001 and renamed T-Mobile USA, Inc. in 2002.



T-Mobile US, Inc. was formed in 2013 through the business combination between T-Mobile USA and MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (“MetroPCS”).  Under the terms of the business combination with MetroPCS, Deutsche Telekom received shares of common stock representing a majority ownership interest in the combined company in exchange for its transfer of all of T-Mobile USA’s common stock.  The business combination aimed to provide us with expanded scale, spectrum, and financial resources to compete aggressively with other, larger U.S. wireless communication providers.  The business combination was accounted for as a reverse acquisition with T-Mobile USA as the accounting acquirer.  Accordingly, T-Mobile USA’s historical financial statements became the historical financial statements of the combined company.  SeeNote 2 – Business Combination with MetroPCSof theNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statementsincluded inPart II, Item 8of thisForm 10-Kfor further information regarding the business combination.



Business Strategy



We generate revenue by offering affordable wireless communication services to our postpaid, prepaid and wholesale customers, as well as a wide selection of wireless devices and accessories.  We provide service, devices and accessories across our flagship brands, T-Mobile and MetroPCS, through our owned and operated retail stores, third party distributors and our websites (www.T-Mobile.com and www.MetroPCS.com).  The information on our websites is not part of thisForm 10-K.  Our most significant expenses are related to acquiring and retaining high-quality customers, compensating employees, and operating and expanding our network.



We continue to aggressively pursue our strategy, which includes the following elements:



Un-carrier Value Proposition



We introduced our Un-carrier proposition with the objective of eliminating customer pain points from the unnecessary complexity of the wireless communication industry.  We believe Un-carrier phases 1.0 through 8.0 have been successful as evidenced by our strong customer growth since the launch of the Un-carrier proposition in 2013.  We provided service to over55 millioncustomers as ofDecember 31, 2014, compared to47 millionas ofDecember 31, 2013.



Phases 1.0 through 8.0 of our Un-carrier proposition are described below:







•Unlimited Data, No Annual Service Contract– In March 2013, we introduced Simple Choice™ plans, which eliminated annual service contracts and provided customers with affordable rate plans.  Customers on Simple Choice plans can purchase the most popular smartphones and if qualified, pay for them with a low out-of-pocket payment and 24 affordable interest-free monthly installments.









•JUMP!– In July 2013, we announced Just Upgrade My Phone (“JUMP!™”) as phase 2.0, which allows participating customers to upgrade their eligible device when they want and not when they are told.  In addition, participants benefit from handset insurance and extended warranty protection, protecting them from lost, stolen and damaged devices.



•International Roaming and Tablets Un-leashed– In October 2013, we unveiled phase 3.0, which provides our Simple Choice customers reduced United States to international calling rates, and messaging and data roaming while traveling abroad in over 100 countries at no extra cost with Simple Global™.  In November 2013, we launched part 2 of phase 3.0, allowing every T-Mobile tablet user to use up to 200 MB of free LTE data every month for as long as they own their tablet and use it on our network, even if they are not yet a T-Mobile mobile internet customer.



•Contract Freedom– In January 2014, we announced phase 4.0, which eliminated one of the last remaining obstacles for customers wanting to switch from other carriers to T-Mobile by offering to reimburse customers’ early termination fees (“ETF”) when they switch from other carriers and trade in their eligible device.



•Test Drive– In June 2014, we released phase 5.0, which allows consumers to test our network using an Apple®iPhone®5s with unlimited nationwide service for seven days at no charge.



•Music Freedom– In June 2014, we introduced phase 6.0, which allows Simple Choice customers to stream music from popular music services without it counting against their high-speed data allotment.  Additionally, we launched Rhapsody®unRadio in partnership with Rhapsody for a limited time, which allows eligible Simple Choice customers with our newest unlimited 4G data service to stream music at no additional cost.  We are also offering Rhapsody unRadio at a discounted price for our eligible customers.



•Wi-Fi Un-leashed– In September 2014, we launched phase 7.0, which delivers coverage to customers in more places.  With Wi-Fi Un-leashed, we provide Wi-Fi calling and texting for Simple Choice customers on capable smartphones.  In addition, we unveiled the T-Mobile Personal CellSpot™, a new device which provides customers with greater coverage in their home.  Finally, through a new partnership with Gogo®, customers with compatible devices can send and receive unlimited text, picture messages and receive visual voicemails on any Gogo-equipped U.S.-based flight for free.



•Data Stash– In December 2014, we introduced phase 8.0, giving customers the ability to roll their unused high-speed data automatically each month into a personal Data Stash™ so they can use it when they need it for up to a year.  Starting in January 2015, Data Stash became available at no extra charge to every T-Mobile customer with a postpaid Simple Choice plan who has purchased additional LTE data, 3GB or more for smartphones and 1 GB or more for tablets.  In addition, beginning in January 2015, we will provide a one-time Free Data Stash to start with of 10 GB of LTE data to all qualifying customers, which will expire at the end of 2015.



Network Modernization and Expansion



We have substantially completed the process of upgrading our network to LTE, which provides our customers with the fastest nationwide LTE services.  Our LTE network covered265 millionpeople as ofDecember 31, 2014, compared to more than 200 million people as ofDecember 31, 2013.  This surpassed our year-end goal of covering 250 million people with the fastest nationwide LTE network.  We are targeting300 millionpeople with LTE by the end of 2015.  In addition, we are currently in the process of building out our network to utilize our recently acquired 700 MHz A-Block spectrum licenses, which will boost network reach, improve in-building coverage and extend coverage to more areas.











Below is a map showing our coverage, including LTE, in the U.S.:





In addition, we were the first U.S. carrier to introduce Voice over LTE (“VoLTE”) on a nationwide basis.  Further, the migration of customers from the MetroPCS brand legacy Code Division Multiple Access (“CDMA”) network onto T-Mobile’s LTE and Evolved High Speed Packet Access Plus (“HSPA+”) network continues to be ahead of schedule, providing faster network performance for MetroPCS customers with compatible handsets.



In 2014, we completed transactions for the acquisition of 700 MHz A-Block, Advanced Wireless Service (“AWS”) and Personal Communications Service (“PCS”) spectrum licenses, primarily from Verizon Communications, Inc. (“Verizon”), for cash and the exchange of certain AWS and PCS spectrum licenses.  In addition, in 2014, we entered into transactions, which are expected to close in 2015, with various other companies to acquire additional 700 MHz A-Block, AWS and PCS spectrum licenses, which covers more than40 millionpeople, for cash and the exchange of certain AWS and PCS spectrum licenses.  The transactions are subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions.  Upon closing of these pending transactions, we will own 700 MHz A-Block spectrum covering190 millionpeople.  InJanuary 2015, the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) announced T-Mobile was the winning bidder of AWS spectrum licenses covering approximately97 millionpeople for an aggregate bid price of$1.8 billion.  T-Mobile expects to receive the AWS spectrum licenses, subject to regulatory approval, in thesecond quarter of 2015.



Customer Experience



The success of our Un-carrier proposition and continued modernization of the network has further repositioned T-Mobile as a provider of dependable high-speed LTE service with a full range of desirable devices and provides our customers with an unrivaled customer experience.  We have continued to focus on retaining customers through churn reduction initiatives to improve customer experience.  Branded postpaid phone churn improved to1.58%in2014, compared to1.69%in2013and2.33%in2012.  These results reinforce our position as an organization with a strong focus and commitment to providing an outstanding customer experience whether customers call in, come in to our stores, or access our website.



Aligned Cost Structure



We continue to pursue a low-cost business operating model to drive cost savings, which can then be reinvested in the business.  These cost-reduction programs are on-going as we continue to simplify our business and drive operational efficiencies and cost savings in areas, such as network optimization, customer roaming, customer service and improved customer collection rates.









We expect the business combination with MetroPCS to deliver at least$1.5 billionin annual run-rate synergies in operating and capital expenditures by2016.  A portion of these savings have been, and will continue to be, reinvested into growth of our business.



Customers



T-Mobile provides wireless communication services to three primary categories of customers: branded postpaid, branded prepaid and wholesale.  Branded postpaid customers generally include customers that are qualified to pay after incurring wireless communication service.  Branded prepaid customers generally include customers who pay in advance.  Our branded prepaid customers include customers of the T-Mobile, MetroPCS and certain partner brands.  Wholesale customers, which include Machine-to-Machine (“M2M”) and Mobile Virtual Network Operators (“MVNO”), operate on the T-Mobile network, but are managed by wholesale partners.



We generate the majority of our service revenues by providing wireless communication services to branded postpaid customers.  In2014,64%of our service revenues were generated by providing wireless communication services to branded postpaid customers, compared to31%from branded prepaid customers and5%from wholesale customers, roaming and other services.  Therefore, our ability to acquire and retain branded postpaid customers is important to our business in the generation of service revenues, equipment sales and other revenues.  Our branded postpaid net customer additions were4.9 millionin2014, compared to2.0 millionin2013.  Growth in our branded postpaid customer additions resulted primarily from strong customer response to our network modernization, Un-carrier proposition and promotions for services and devices.



Services and Products



T-Mobile provides wireless communication services through a variety of service plan options.  We also offer a wide selection of wireless devices, including smartphones, tablets and other mobile communication devices, which are manufactured by various suppliers.  Services, devices and accessories are offered directly to consumers through our owned and operated retail stores, as well as through our websites.  In addition, we sell devices and accessories to dealers and other third party distributors for resale through independent third-party retail outlets and a variety of third-party websites.



Service plan options include our Value and Simple Choice (“Simple Choice”) plans, which allow customers to subscribe for wireless services separately from the purchase of a handset.  We introduced our Simple Choice plans as part of phase 1.0 of our Un-carrier proposition in 2013, which eliminated annual service contracts and simplified the lineup of consumer rate plans to one affordable plan for unlimited voice and messaging services with the option to add data services.  Depending on their credit profile, customers are qualified either for postpaid or prepaid service.  As part of the ongoing movement towards simplifying the business, we continued to drive the penetration of Simple Choice plans within our base.  The proportion of branded postpaid customers on Simple Choice plans was89%as ofDecember 31, 2014, up from69%as ofDecember 31, 2013.



Customers on our Simple Choice, benefit from reduced monthly service charges and can choose whether to use their own compatible handset on our network or purchase a handset from us or one of our dealers.  Depending on their credit profile, qualifying customers who purchase a device from us have the option of financing all or a portion of the purchase price at the time of sale over an installment period using our Equipment Installment Plan (“EIP”).  In addition, qualifying customers who finance their initial handset device with an EIP can enroll in JUMP! to later upgrade their device.  Upon qualifying JUMP! program upgrades, the customers’ remaining EIP balance is settled provided they trade in their used handset at the time of upgrade in good working condition and purchase a new handset from us on a new EIP.  Our Simple Choice plans result in increased equipment revenue for each handset sold compared to traditional bundled price plans that typically offer a significant handset discount but involve higher monthly service charges.



Network



Our nationwide network covers all major metropolitan areas and approximately90%of people in the U.S., excluding roaming coverage.  Over the last two years, we have continued to build out our network to be Data Strong™, meaning we have the most dense network in the nation, with more cell sites per customer than any other nationwide wireless communication provider, and we have concentrated our cell sites where our customers need data most.



We provide mobile communication services utilizing low-band spectrum licenses, consisting of 700 MHz A-Block, and mid-band spectrum licenses, such as AWS and PCS.  We had an average of approximately82MHz of spectrum in the top 25 major metropolitan areas as ofDecember 31, 2014.  This is compared to an average of approximately 77 MHz of spectrum in the top 25 major metropolitan areas as of December 31, 2013.  Over the last year, we have entered into various agreements for the acquisition of 700 MHz A-Block, AWS and PCS spectrum licenses.  In addition, we will seek to opportunistically acquire









additional spectrum in private party transactions and government auctions to further enhance our portfolio of U.S. nationwide broadband spectrum.



We provide wireless communication services through a number of technologies, including LTE, HSPA+, Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems (“UMTS”), General Packet Radio Service (“GPRS”), Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution (“EDGE”), Global System for Mobile Communications (“GSM”) and CDMA.  We have substantially completed the process of upgrading our network to LTE using our mid-band spectrum licenses, which offers our customers faster data transfer speeds, greater connectivity and increased coverage.  Not only does our network offer the fastest nationwide LTE network and the most consistent LTE speeds based on download speed, it currently has more capacity per customer than any other nationwide communications provider.  In addition to expanding our LTE coverage, we are enhancing our network through an aggressive deployment of Wideband LTE of at least 15x15 MHz, which delivers faster LTE speeds.  We have deployed Wideband LTE in


metropolitan areas as of December 31, 2014 and expect Wideband LTE to be available in


metropolitan areas by the end of 2015.  We have also begun to launch low-band LTE using our recently acquired 700 MHz A-Block spectrum licenses.  We offered five devices capable of using low-band LTE in 2014 and are working with our device partners to ensure all new LTE devices that launch in 2015 will be low-band capable.  As part of the integration following the business combination, we are in the process of decommissioning the MetroPCS CDMA network and redundant cell sites, while also integrating select MetroPCS assets in certain metropolitan areas into the overall network.  We have moved more than 70% of the MetroPCS spectrum licenses onto the T-Mobile network to provide faster LTE performance in many key markets.  Upon completion of the migration of the MetroPCS customer base, we expect to have approximately 61,000 equivalent cell sites, including macro sites and certain distributed antenna system (“DAS”) network nodes from the MetroPCS network.



Distribution



We had approximately 62,000 total points of distribution, including approximately 10,000 T-Mobile and MetroPCS branded locations and 52,000 third-party and national retailer locations, as well as distribution through our websites, as ofDecember 31, 2014.  We had approximately 70,000 points of distribution as ofDecember 31, 2013and 61,000 as ofDecember 31, 2012.  Our distribution density in major metropolitan areas provides customers with the convenience of having retail and service locations close to where they live and work.



Competition



The wireless telecommunications industry is highly competitive.  We are the fourth largest provider of postpaid service plans and the largest provider of prepaid service plans in the U.S. as measured by customers.  Our competitors include other national carriers, such as AT&T Inc. (“AT&T”), Verizon and Sprint Corporation (“Sprint”), which offer predominantly contract-based service plans.  AT&T and Verizon are significantly larger than us and may enjoy greater resources and scale advantages as compared to us.  In addition, our competitors include numerous smaller regional carriers and MVNOs, such as TracFone Wireless, Inc., many of which offer no-contract, prepaid service plans.  Competitors also include providers who offer similar communication services, such as voice and messaging, using alternative technologies or services.  Competitive factors within the wireless telecommunications industry include pricing, market saturation, service and product offerings, customer experience, network investment and quality, development and deployment of technologies, availability of additional spectrum licenses, and regulatory changes.  Some competitors have shown a willingness to use aggressive pricing as a source of differentiation.  Taken together, the competitive factors we face will continue to put pressure on margins as companies compete to retain the current customer base and continue to add new customers.



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2014, we employed approximately 45,000 full-time and part-time employees, including network, retail, customer support and back office functions, of which approximately 30 employees were covered by a collective bargaining agreement, as ofDecember 31, 2014.



Regulation



The FCC regulates many key aspects of our business, including licensing, construction, the operation and use of our network, modifications of our network, control and ownership of our business, the sale of certain business assets, domestic roaming arrangements and interconnection agreements, pursuant to its authority under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (“Communications Act”).  The FCC has a number of complex requirements and proceedings that affect our operations and that could increase our costs or diminish our revenues.  For example, the FCC has rules regarding provision of 911 and E-911 services, porting telephone numbers, interconnection, roaming, internet openness, and the universal service and Lifeline programs.  Many of these and other issues are being considered in ongoing proceedings, and we cannot predict whether or how









such actions will affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  Our ability to provide services and generate revenues could be harmed by adverse regulatory action or changes to existing laws and regulations.  In addition, regulation of companies that offer competing services can impact our business indirectly.



Wireless communications providers must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as adopted by the FCC.  The FCC issues each license for a fixed period of time, typically 10 years in the case of cellular, PCS and point-to-point microwave licenses.  AWS licenses have an initial term of 15 years, with successive 10-year terms thereafter.  While the FCC has generally renewed licenses given to operating companies like us, the FCC has authority to both revoke a license for cause and to deny a license renewal if a renewal is not in the public interest.  Furthermore, we could be subject to fines, forfeitures and other penalties for failure to comply with FCC regulations, even if any such non-compliance was unintentional.  In extreme cases, penalties can include revocation of our licenses.  The loss of any licenses, or any related fines or forfeitures, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.



Additionally, Congress’ and the FCC’s allocation of additional spectrum for broadband commercial mobile radio service (“CMRS”), which includes cellular, PCS and specialized mobile radio, could significantly increase competition.  We cannot assess the impact that any developments that may occur in the U.S. economy or any future spectrum allocations by the FCC may have on license values.  FCC spectrum auctions and other market developments may adversely affect the market value of our licenses in the future.  A significant decline in the value of our licenses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the FCC periodically reviews its policies on how to evaluate a carrier’s spectrum holdings in the context of transactions and auctions.  A change in these policies could affect spectrum resources and competition among us and other carriers.



Congress and the FCC have imposed limitations on foreign ownership of CMRS licensees that exceed 20% direct ownership or 25% indirect ownership.  The FCC has ruled that higher levels of indirect foreign ownership, even up to 100%, are presumptively consistent with the public interest albeit subject to review.  Consistent with that established policy, the FCC has issued a declaratory ruling authorizing up to 100% ownership of our company by Deutsche Telekom.  This declaratory ruling, and our licenses, are conditioned on Deutsche Telekom’s and the Company’s compliance with a network security agreement with the Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Homeland Security.  Failure to comply with the terms of this agreement could result in fines, injunctions and other penalties, including potential revocation of our spectrum licenses.



While the Communications Act generally preempts state and local governments from regulating the entry of, or the rates charged by, wireless communication providers, certain state and local governments regulate other terms and conditions of wireless service, including billing, termination of service arrangements and the imposition of early termination fees, advertising, network outages, the use of handsets while driving, zoning and land use.  Further, the FCC and the Federal Aviation Administration regulate the siting, lighting and construction of transmitter towers and antennae.  Tower siting and construction are also subject to state and local zoning, as well as federal statutes regarding environmental and historic preservation.  The future costs to comply with all relevant regulations are to some extent unknown and regulations could result in higher operating expenses in the future.



Available Information



T-Mobile’sForm 10-Kand all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.t-mobile.com or at www.sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after these materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC.  Our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct, code of ethics for senior financial officers and charters for the audit, compensation, nominating and corporate governance and executive committees of our board of directors are also posted on the Investor Relations section of T-Mobile’s website at investor.t-mobile.com.  The information on our websites is not part of this or any other report T-Mobile files with, or furnishes to, the SEC.



Investors and others should note we announce material financial and operational information to our investors using our investor relations website, press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts.  T-Mobile intends to also use @TMobileIR (https://twitter.com/TMobileIR) and @JohnLegere (https://twitter.com/JohnLegere), which Mr. Legere also uses as a means for personal communications and observations, as a means of disclosing information about the Company, its services and other matters and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD.  The information we post through these social media channels may be deemed material.  Accordingly, investors should monitor these social media channels in addition to following the Company’s press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts.  The social









media channels T-Mobile intends to use as a means of disclosing the information described above may be updated from time to time as listed on the Company’s investor relations website.





