Item 1.Business



General



We are the fifth largest facilities-based wireless broadband mobile communications provider in the United States based on the number of customers served. We offer wireless broadband mobile services under the MetroPCS®brand in selected major metropolitan areas in the United States. We provide a variety of wireless broadband mobile communications services to our customers on a no long-term contract, paid-in-advance basis. As of December 31, 2011, we had over 9.3 million customers.



MetroPCS Communications, Inc., or MetroPCS Communications, was incorporated in 2004 in the state of Delaware and maintains its corporate headquarters in Richardson, Texas.  All of our services are provided through wholly-owned subsidiaries of MetroPCS Wireless, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of MetroPCS Communications.  In April 2007, MetroPCS Communications consummated an initial public offering of its common stock and became listed for trading on The New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PCS.”



Our web site address iswww.metropcs.com.  Information contained on, or accessible from, our web site is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report or any other filing we make with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.  We file with, or furnish to, the SEC all our periodic filings and reports, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, as well as other information.  All of our filings with the SEC are available free of charge through the Investor Relations page of our web site as soon as practicable after filing or providing such information to the SEC.  Copies of any of our filings with the SEC also may be obtained, without charge, by sending a written request to Investor Relations, MetroPCS Communications, Inc., 2250 Lakeside Blvd., Richardson, Texas 75082.  Copies of any of our filings also can be obtained without charge from the SEC atwww.sec.gov.



Business Overview



We currently provide our wireless broadband mobile services primarily in selected major metropolitan areas in the United States, including the Atlanta, Boston, Dallas/Fort Worth, Detroit, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Orlando/Jacksonville, Philadelphia, Sacramento, San Francisco, and Tampa/Sarasota metropolitan areas. As of December 31, 2011, we hold licenses for wireless spectrum suitable for wireless broadband mobile services covering a total population of 142 million people in and around many of the largest metropolitan areas in the United States.  In addition, we have roaming agreements with other wireless broadband mobile carriers that allow us to offer our customers service when they are outside our service area. These roaming agreements, together with the area we serve with our own networks, allow our customers to receive service in an area covering over 280 million in total population under the Metro USA®brand.  We provide our services using code division multiple access, or CDMA, networks using 1xRTT technology and evolved data only, or EVDO, and, long term evolution, or 4G LTE, technology. We introduced the first commercial 4G LTE service in the United States in our Las Vegas and Dallas/Fort Worth metropolitan areas in September 2010 and at that time launched the world's first dual mode 4G LTE/CDMA handset.  Subsequently through the remainder of 2010 and early 2011, we launched our 4G LTE service in the remainder of our major metropolitan areas.



Competitive Strengths



We believe our business model has the following competitive strengths that distinguish us from our principal wireless competitors:



•Our Service Plans.  We currently offer our wireless broadband mobile services on a no long-term contract, paid-in-advance, flat-rate, and predominately unlimited usage basis.  Starting in January 2010, we began offering our wireless broadband mobile services using rate plans that include all applicable taxes and regulatory fees. We believe we offer a compelling value proposition to our customers.  Our average per minute cost to our customers for our wireless broadband mobile service plans is significantly lower than the average per minute cost of other traditional wireless broadband mobile carriers based on the average use of such carriers' customers based on publicly available information. We believe our low average cost per minute has positioned, and will continue to position, us well for the growing trend of wireline displacement.











•Our Densely Populated Markets.The aggregate population density in and around the metropolitan areas we currently serve over our networks is substantially higher than the national average. We believe the high relative population density of the major metropolitan areas our networks serve results in increased efficiencies in network deployment, operations and product distribution.



•Our Cost Leadership Position.We believe we have one of the lowest costs to provide wireless broadband mobile services of any of the providers of wireless broadband mobile services in the United States, which allows us to offer our services on a flat-rate, and predominately unlimited basis at affordable prices while maintaining cash profits per customer as a percentage of revenue per customer that we believe is among the highest in the wireless broadband mobile services industry. We currently are the fifth largest facilities-based wireless broadband mobile services provider in the United States based on number of customers served, and we have, and we believe we will continue to enjoy, economies of scale as we continue to increase the number of customers we serve.



•Our Spectrum Portfolio.As of December 31, 2011, we hold licenses for wireless spectrum suitable for wireless broadband mobile services covering a population of 142 million people in and around many of the largest metropolitan areas in the United States.



•Our Advanced Networks.We utilize CDMA and 4G LTE technologies in our networks and our networks are designed to provide the capacity necessary to satisfy the usage requirements of our customers. We believe CDMA and 4G LTE technology provides us with substantially more voice and data capacity per MHz of spectrum than other commonly deployed wireless broadband mobile technologies.



Business Strategy



We believe the following components of our business strategy provide a foundation for our continued growth:



•Target underserved customer segments in our markets.We predominantly target a mass market that we believe has been largely underserved historically by traditional wireless broadband mobile carriers.



•Offer simple, predictable, affordable and flexible service plans.We plan to continue to focus on increasing the value provided to our customers by offering simple, predictable, affordable and flexible service plans.  In January 2010, we introduced a new family of unlimited wireless broadband mobile service plans that include all applicable taxes and regulatory fees for a flat-rate. In January 2011, we introduced new 4G LTE wireless broadband mobile service plans that allow customers to enjoy voice, text and web access services at fixed monthly rates, including all applicable taxes and regulatory fees, starting as low as $40 per month.



•Remain one of the lowest cost wireless service providers in the United States.We plan to continue to focus on controlling our costs to allow us to remain one of the lowest cost providers of wireless broadband mobile services in the United States.



•Expand our markets.We plan to continue to focus on expanding in and around the major metropolitan areas we currently serve, which may require us to acquire or gain access to additional spectrum suitable for wireless broadband mobile service or enter into or expand our roaming arrangements with other wireless carriers beyond those in which our customers currently can receive wireless broadband mobile service.



•Continue to invest in our networks.We plan to continue to make significant capital improvements to our networks in order to offer our customers competitive and technologically-advanced services, including enhanced data services, location based services and digital technology as they become increasingly available. We introduced the first commercial 4G LTE service in the United States in our Las Vegas and Dallas/Fort Worth metropolitan areas in September 2010 and subsequently have launched commercial 4G LTE service in all of our major metropolitan areas already served with our CDMA network.  We also have selectively deployed EVDO in our CDMA network in order to expand our capacity to serve the data needs of our customers.



•Offer nationwide voice, text and web services.Beginning in January 2010, all unlimited wireless broadband mobile service plans we offer to new customers include nationwide voice, text and web access services for a flat rate inclusive of applicable taxes and regulatory fees. In order to provide these plans, we have entered into, and plan to enter into or expand in the future, roaming agreements with other wireless broadband mobile service providers that allow our customers to receive wireless broadband mobile services when they are outside the areas we currently serve with our networks.











Products and Services



We provide wireless broadband mobile services under the MetroPCS®brand.  In January 2010, we introduced a new family of service plans, which include all applicable taxes and regulatory fees and offer nationwide voice, text and web access services on a predominately unlimited, no long-term contract, paid-in-advance, flat-rate basis beginning at $40 per month.  For an additional $5 to $20 per month, our customers may select alternative service plans that offer additional features on an unlimited basis.  We also offer discounts to customers who purchase services for additional handsets on the same account.  In January 2011, we introduced new 4G LTE service plans that allow customers to enjoy voice, text and web access services at fixed monthly rates starting as low as $40 per month.  For additional usage fees, we also provide certain other value-added services.



We provide the following products and services:



•Voice Services.Our voice services allow customers to place voice calls to, and receive calls from, any telephone in the world, including local, domestic long distance, and international calls.  Our voice services also allow customers to receive and make calls while they are located in areas served by our networks and in those geographic areas served by certain other wireless broadband mobile carriers with whom we have roaming arrangements.



•Data Services.Our data services include text messaging services (domestic and international); multimedia messaging services; mobile Internet access; mobile instant messaging; location based services; social networking services; push e-mail; multimedia streaming and downloads; and services provided, depending on the network and locale, through the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless, or BREW, Blackberry, Windows, and the Android platforms, such as ringtones, ring back tones, games, content, and applications.



•Custom Calling Features.We offer custom calling features, including caller ID, call waiting, three-way calling and voicemail.



•Advanced Handsets.We sell a variety of feature phones, and increasingly, smartphones, manufactured by nationally recognized manufacturers for use on our network, including models that have cameras, can browse the Internet, play music, play streaming audio, display streaming video and downloaded video, and have other features facilitating digital data.  We sell a variety of handsets using vendor or handset specific operating systems, such as BREW, Blackberry, Windows, and the Android operating system.



Service Areas



Our strategy has been to offer our wireless broadband mobile services in major metropolitan markets and surrounding areas. We commenced providing commercial wireless broadband mobile service in the first quarter of 2002.  We launched service in our current major metropolitan areas as follows:



•Miami, Atlanta and Sacramento in the first quarter of 2002

•San Francisco in September 2002

•Tampa/Sarasota in October 2005

•Dallas/Fort Worth in March 2006

•Detroit in April 2006

•Orlando and portions of northern Florida in November 2006

•Los Angeles in September 2007

•Las Vegas in March 2008

•Philadelphia in July 2008

•New York and Boston in February 2009



We provide our services using paired personal communications services, or PCS, spectrum and advanced wireless services, or AWS, spectrum.  In addition, we hold a license for 12 MHz of paired 700 MHz Lower Band A spectrum in the Boston-Worchester, MA/NH/RI/VT basic economic area, or BEA.  In each of our major metropolitan areas where we provide service, as of December 31, 2011, we hold between 10 MHz and 60 MHz of paired spectrum and on average we have approximately 22 MHz of paired spectrum in our major metropolitan areas.  In aggregate, as of December 31, 2011, we offer services using our own network covering a population of 100 million in the continental United States.



The map below illustrates the geographic coverage of our licensed spectrum as of December 31, 2011:











Distribution and Marketing



We offer our products and services to our customers under the MetroPCS® brand predominately through retail distribution.  Our retail distribution includes independent retail outlets and Company operated retail stores. We also sell our services over the Internet using our own branded MetroPCS®website.  Our independent retail outlets include a mixture of local, regional and national mass market dealers and retailers and specialty stores. Many of our dealers own and operate more than one retail sales location and may operate in more than one of our metropolitan areas.  A substantial number of our retailers, dealers and corporate store locations, and certain other locations also accept payment for our services and many also perform other services for us. A significant portion of our gross customer additions have been added through our independent retail outlets.  For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, approximately 90% of our gross customer additions were through independent retail outlets.



Our marketing strategy is to create and provide products, services and communications that drive growth while optimizing our marketing return on investment and minimizing the cost to acquire customers.  Our marketing campaigns emphasize that MetroPCS offers simple, affordable, predictable and flexible service plans.  MetroPCS builds consumer awareness and promotes the MetroPCS®brand by strategic local advertising to develop our brand and support our distribution channels. We advertise primarily through local radio, cable, television, outdoor and local print media. We also advertise through sponsorship arrangements with local, regional, and national sports teams, stadiums, and leagues.  In addition, we believe we have benefited from a significant number of word-of-mouth customer referrals.  Some of our independent retail locations also engage in their own advertising which we support.



Customer Care, Billing and Support Systems



We outsource some or all of our customer care, billing, payment processing and logistics to nationally recognized third-party providers.



Our outsourced call centers are staffed with professional and bilingual customer service personnel, who are available to assist our customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year.  Some of these outsourced call centers are located outside the United States, including in Mexico, Antigua, Panama, and the Philippines, which facilitates the efficient provision of customer support to our large and growing customer base, including Spanish speaking customers.  We also provide automated voice response service to assist our customers with routine information requests.  On certain of our handsets we also provide an application that allows the user to engage in certain routine customer care functions such as activation, billing inquiries and payment.











Network Operations



We operate 1xRTT CDMA networks in all of the metropolitan areas where we provide service and we have upgraded our networks in all of our major metropolitan areas to 4G LTE with the upgrades to the remaining 1xRTT CDMA areas presently scheduled to be completed in 2012. We also have selectively deployed EVDO at selected high use sites in our CDMA network to increase network data capacity to meet the data needs of our customers.  A network includes a mobile switching center (for CDMA), enhanced packet core (for 4G LTE), and IP core, which serve several purposes, including routing traffic, managing call handoffs, managing access to the public switched telephone network (for CDMA) or the Internet (CDMA and 4G LTE) and providing access to voicemail and other value-added services, base stations (for CDMA) or eNodeBs (for 4G LTE), cell sites or distributed antenna system, or DAS, nodes, and backhaul facilities, which carry traffic to and from our cell sites and our switching or enhanced packet core facilities, which consists of a combination of dedicated circuits, cable, fiber, and microwave facilities. Currently, almost all cell sites in the network are co-located, meaning our equipment is located on leased facilities that are owned by third parties who retain the right to lease the facilities to additional carriers. The switching centers and national operations center provide around-the-clock monitoring of our network.



Our switches connect to the public switched telephone network through fiber rings leased from third-parties, which transmit originating and terminating traffic between our equipment and local exchange and long distance carriers. We also have negotiated interconnection agreements with relevant local exchange carriers, or LECs, in our service areas.



We currently use third-party providers for domestic and international long distance services, international SMS, and the majority of our backhaul services.



Network Technology



Communications between the customer wireless device and our network is accomplished by a frequency management technology, or “air interface protocol.” We have deployed 1xRTT CDMA technology, which is one of the dominant air interface protocols, and 4G LTE in all of our major metropolitan areas.  We also have selectively deployed EVDO at selected cell sites on our CDMA network to increase data capacity.  Our decision to use CDMA is based on what we believe are several key advantages of CDMA over other air interface protocols, including higher network capacity, longer handset battery life, fewer dropped calls, simplified frequency planning, an efficient migration path as our CDMA technology can be easily upgraded to fourth generation air interface protocols, including 4G LTE, in a cost effective manner, and increased privacy and security.  We believe 4G LTE offers several key advantages over third generation and other fourth generation air interface protocols, including higher network capacity, potential



worldwide market for devices and equipment, and an efficient upgrade path to voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, and other advanced services.  CDMA and 4G LTE are incompatible with each other and with other air interface protocols.  Customers and former customers of other providers may not be able to use their wireless devices on our networks because either their wireless device uses a different air interface protocol, other providers may have deployed air interface protocols on different frequency bands, or the other providers with compatible air interface protocols may have restricted the customers from changing the programming of their wireless device to allow it to be used on networks other than the original provider's network.



Competition



The retail market for wireless broadband mobile services is highly competitive.  We compete directly in each of our metropolitan areas with other facilities and non-facilities based wireless broadband mobile and fixed service providers, wireline, Internet, cable, satellite and other communications service providers. We believe that competition for customers among wireless broadband mobile providers is based mostly on price, service area, services and features, handset selection, call quality and customer service.



The current facilities-based wireless broadband mobile industry is dominated by four national carriers -- AT&T, Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel and T-Mobile -- and their prepaid affiliates or brands.  These national carriers typically offer post-paid plans that subsidize wireless devices, but require long-term service contracts and credit checks or deposits.   Many of our competitors offer service plans with large bundles of minutes of use at low per minute prices or price plans with unlimited nights and weekends or unlimited mobile-to-mobile, or unlimited calls to selected numbers, and some of our competitors offer unlimited service plans similar to ours. Our competitors' plans could adversely affect our ability to maintain our pricing, market penetration, growth and customer retention.  Our competitors also have introduced, either directly or through their affiliates, increasingly competitive unlimited fixed-rate services plans in areas in which we offer service, some of which are on a no long-term contract basis.  These unlimited fixed-rate service plans may cause other competitors to introduce similar or increasingly competitive unlimited fixed-rate plans.  Following declines in the adoption of post-paid plans, some national carriers have become increasingly aggressive in offering and marketing prepaid and pay-in-advance services on a no long-term contract basis









and, in some cases, have relaxed their requirements for long term contracts or credit checks. In addition, other facilities-based regional wireless broadband mobile carriers, such as Cricket Communications, an affiliate of Leap Wireless International, or Leap, have unlimited fixed-rate service plans similar to ours and compete with us in certain of our metropolitan areas on a facilities based and non-facilities based basis.



In addition to facilities-based wireless broadband mobile carriers, the wireless broadband mobile industry also includes carriers such as Tracfone and PagePlus that are solely non-facility based mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, and some, such as Cricket Communications, which is a combination of facilities based and non-facilities based carrier, that contract with wireless network operators to provide a separately branded wireless service. In some cases these MVNOs have business arrangements with one of the other major nationwide carriers, which may give them access to a more extensive network than ours and we believe at lower prices than we pay for roaming for access to service out of our service areas. These MVNOs offer increasingly competitive service plans similar to the service plans we provide in addition to offering more traditional prepaid plans that charge by the minute.





The wireline voice and broadband industry is dominated by large incumbent carriers, such as AT&T and Verizon.  In addition, large cable companies, competitive local exchange carriers and VoIP service providers also provide competition for wireline voice and broadband services. The cable industry is dominated by large carriers such as Time Warner Cable, Comcast and Cox Communications. These cable companies, along with cable company Advance/Newhouse (now Bright House Networks), formed a joint venture called SpectrumCo LLC, or SpectrumCo, which bid on and acquired 20 MHz of advanced wireless services, or AWS, spectrum in a number of major metropolitan areas throughout the United States, including all of the major metropolitan areas in which we have built.  SpectrumCo LLC and Cox recently announced a transaction to sell 20 MHz of AWS spectrum to Verizon Wireless and to enter into agreements under which Verizon Wireless and the owners of SpectrumCo would resell each other's services.











also are expanding their services to offer telecommunications and broadband services.



Congress recently passed legislation which would require the FCC to auction and license up to 65 MHz of spectrum by early 2015 and to ultimately reallocate and commence an auction within nine years for an additional 42 MHz of spectrum at 470 MHz to 512 MHz which is currently used by public safety.  Further, Congress has provided the FCC with authority to conduct incentive auctions for both spectrum currently held by digital television, or DTV, stations and others, and the legislation requires the FCC to conduct the incentive auctions for DTV spectrum by 2022. The legislation also provides for authority for the FCC to allocate spectrum on an unlicensed basis, including up to 195 MHz of unlicensed spectrum in the 5 GHz band.  This spectrum could allow new entrants to acquire, construct and operate networks in competition with us and could also allow existing competitors to increase their spectrum holdings which might allow them to offer services that we cannot offer or have lower costs than we incur to provide similar services.

There continues to be substantial merger and acquisition activity in the wireless industry. We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, spectrum to enter new metropolitan areas or increase our spectrum holdings in metropolitan areas where we currently offer service. From time to time we undertake and consider acquisitions of, or other business combinations with, companies in addition to acquisitions of spectrum. From time to time we also have discussions between us and other companies regarding potential acquisitions, divestitures, other business combinations, or transactions between the companies.

Many of our competitors' resources are substantially greater, and their market shares are larger, than ours. For example, a number of our competitors have significantly greater spectrum, capital, financial, marketing, human capital, distribution and other resources than we do.  Additionally, many of our wireless competitors have networks with larger coverage areas, significantly larger spectrum holdings, lower roaming prices, data roaming agreements, offer nationwide calling plans that do not give rise to additional roaming charges for their customers, and offer international voice and data roaming options for their customers.   Further, the marginal incremental cost of some of our competitors may be substantially lower than our cost to provide service and may allow such competitors to price their services at rates that we cannot profitably provide.  Further, some of our competitors may be able to offer services in combination with other services that we cannot in a “quad play” of voice, data, television, and mobile services.



In some instances, large national wireless broadband mobile services carriers have been reluctant to enter into voice and data roaming agreements at attractive rates with smaller and mid-tier national carriers like us, which limits our ability to serve certain market segments, and recent FCC actions to promote automatic roaming do not resolve these difficulties. This competitive pressure also may increase as our basic service plans now include nationwide service and data.





All of these factors may detract from our ability to attract customers from certain market segments and may require us to add additional features or services to our existing service plans, or make other changes to our service plans, including pricing and usage, or offer promotions or other price concessions to customers.



Seasonality



Our customer activity is influenced by seasonal effects related to traditional retail selling periods and other factors that arise from our target customer base. Based on historical results, we generally expect the net customer additions to be strongest in the first and fourth quarters. Softening of sales and increased customer turnover, or churn, in the second and third calendar quarters of the year usually combine to result in fewer net customer additions.  However, sales activity and churn can be









strongly affected by the launch of new metropolitan areas, introduction of new price plans, and by promotional activity, which could reduce or outweigh certain seasonal effects.  For a more detailed discussion of seasonality in our business, please read “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Seasonality.”



Inflation



We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our operations.



Employees



As of December 31, 2011, we have approximately 3,700 employees. We believe our relationship with our employees is good.  None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or represented by an employee union.



Regulation



The wireless communications industry is regulated extensively by the federal government and, to varying degrees, by state and local governments.  Congress, state legislatures, municipalities, and various federal, state and local regulatory bodies have enacted, and may in the future enact, legislation, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations, and administrative decisions, and courts have issued judicial decisions, orders and decrees, affecting the communications industry.  The political, regulatory and judicial environment and regulatory climate affecting the communications industry has been, and is expected to remain in the future, in a state of constant flux.



Federal Regulation





Broadband Spectrum Allocations



We utilize paired radio spectrum licensed by the FCC to provide our wireless broadband mobile services to our customers. The FCC has allocated paired broadband spectrum in a variety of different bands, spectrum bandwidths, and geographic license areas, and we and many of our competitors utilize a combination of spectrum in the various bands to provide wireless services.  The principal terrestrially allocated spectrum bands used to provide, or that could be used to provide, terrestrial broadband wireless mobile services in the United States, all of which can be used to provide services competitive with the services we offer are described below:



Cellular spectrum. The FCC has assigned two cellular licenses with 25 MHz of spectrum each in the 800 MHz band on a metropolitan statistical area, or MSA, and rural service area, or RSA, basis. There are 306 MSAs and 428 RSAs in the United States. MSAs and RSAs are defined by the Office of Management and Budget, or OMB, and the FCC, respectively.



PCS spectrum.  The FCC has assigned licenses to use 130 MHz of radio spectrum in the 1.9 GHz band for PCS. The PCS spectrum has been licensed in a variety of bandwidths (30 MHz, 15 MHz and 10 MHz) and market areas (nationwide, major trading areas or MTAs and basic trading areas or BTAs). Under the broadband PCS licensing plan, the United States and its possessions and territories are divided into 493 BTAs, all of which are included within 51 MTAs. Both MTAs and BTAs are defined by Rand McNally & Company, with certain modifications adopted by the FCC.











SMR spectrum. The FCC has licensed 19 MHz of specialized mobile radio, or SMR spectrum, plus an additional 7.5 megahertz of spectrum that is available for SMR as well as other services. FCC policy permits flexible use of this spectrum, including the provision of enhanced mobile wireless services. This includes post-800 MHz band reconfiguration spectrum.



AWS-1 spectrum. The FCC has assigned 90 MHz of spectrum to be used for AWS. The FCC divided the 90 MHz of spectrum into two 10 MHz and one 20 MHz paired blocks assigned on a regional economic area grouping, or REAG, basis; one 10 MHz and one 20 MHz paired blocks each assigned on an economic area, or EA, basis; and a 20 MHz paired block assigned on a Cellular Marketing Area, or CMA, basis. The CMAs generally correspond to MSAs and RSAs. Under the AWS band plan, the United States is divided into 176 EAs, 12 REAGs, and 734 CMAs. The EAs are geographic areas defined by the Regional Economic Analysis Division of the Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce, as supplemented by the FCC. REAGs are collections of EAs.



700 MHz spectrum. The FCC has allocated 72 MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band. The FCC divided this spectrum into two 12 MHz paired blocks, one 6 MHz unpaired block licensed on a CMA or EA basis; one 6 MHz unpaired block licensed on a Economic Area Grouping, or EAG, basis; one 22 MHz paired block licensed on a REAG basis, 4 MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz guard band. Holders of the 22 MHz licenses, most of which are held by one of our competitors, must provide a network platform that is generally open to third-party wireless devices and applications, or an Open Network Platform, by allowing consumers to use the handset of their choice and to download and use the applications of their choice, subject to certain network management conditions that are intended to allow the licensee to protect the network from harm.  Congress recently passed legislation which reallocated the D Block to public safety.



BRS spectrum.  In 2004, the FCC ordered that 194 MHz of spectrum in the 2496-2690 MHz band, or the 2.5 GHz band, be reconfigured over a period of time into upper and lower-band segments for low-power operations, with a mid-band segment for high-power operations. This spectrum is allocated and licensed in the United States and its possessions and territories in 493 BTAs. The FCC concluded in 2008 that 55.5 MHz of the broadband radio service, or BRS, spectrum holdings in the 2.5 GHz band will be included in the FCC's product market for mobile telephony/broadband services, and taken into consideration when the FCC is assessing the competitive impact of broadband wireless merger and acquisition transactions.



WCS spectrum.  In 2010, the FCC adopted rules relating to 30 MHz of spectrum in the 2305-2320 MHz and 2345-2360 MHz bands, or the WCS spectrum, which accord licensees greater flexibility to offer, among other services, mobile broadband services.  The WCS spectrum initially was auctioned in 1997 into four license blocks.  Two 5 MHz paired channels were auctioned on a major economic area, or MEA, basis and two unpaired 5 MHz channels were auctioned on a REAG basis.  MEAs are a collection of EAs.  Under the recently adopted rules, WCS licensees are subject to revised construction requirements.



Future allocations. The FCC has certain broadband wireless spectrum allocation proceedings in process. For example, the FCC is considering service rules for an additional 20 MHz of paired AWS spectrum, or AWS-2, in the 1915-1920 MHz, 1995-2000 MHz, 2020-2025 MHz and 2175-2180 MHz bands, as well as 20 MHz of unpaired AWS spectrum, or AWS-3, in the 2155-2175 MHz band. The FCC also is considering whether the unpaired AWS-3 spectrum could be paired in either a symmetrical or asymmetrical basis with other spectrum to create more paired spectrum.  Both AWS-2 and AWS-3 have been allocated for advanced fixed and mobile services, including AWS.  The FCC and interested parties have proposed that these blocks of spectrum be subject to various conditions, configurations and terms and conditions.  Congress recently passed legislation which would require the FCC to auction and license up to 65 MHz of spectrum, including AWS-3 and up to 15 MHz of AWS-2, by early 2015.  Further, Congress has provided the FCC with authority to conduct incentive auctions for both spectrum currently held by DTV stations and others, and the legislation requires the FCC to conduct the incentive auctions for DTV spectrum by 2022.



Backhaul.  We also use paired and unpaired microwave spectrum to transport our traffic between our cell sites and our switches and enhanced packet core facilities.  This spectrum is licensed on both a point-to-point basis and on a BTA basis.



In 2010, the FCC released its National Broadband Plan, which indicates that the FCC will seek to allocate 300 to 500 MHz of additional spectrum below 2.5 GHz, over the next 5 to 10 years, for use in providing mobile wireless broadband services.  The FCC also is taking additional steps to repurpose spectrum for mobile wireless broadband use.  The FCC has initiated a series of proceedings designed to identify additional spectrum that can be refarmed, reassigned, or reallocated to meet a perceived need for an additional significant amount of spectrum for wireless broadband mobile services.  For example, one of these proceedings is a Notice of Inquiry, or NOI, in which the FCC proposes to conduct voluntary incentive auctions for spectrum currently used for digital broadcast television services.  Congress recently passed legislation providing the FCC with the authority to conduct incentive auctions, including auctions for digital broadcast television.  The FCC also has initiated a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, or NPRM, and NOI regarding the regulatory flexibility of 90 MHz of mobile satellite service,









or MSS, spectrum.  This satellite spectrum, along with the ancillary terrestrial component, or ATC, that has been granted to most MSS licensees, may also be used to provide mobile wireless broadband services.  Despite these government initiatives to identify and allocate additional spectrum for mobile wireless broadband services, there is, at present, a spectrum shortage and there do not appear to be any easy near term solutions.  There is no certainty as to whether such additional spectrum will be made available, the amount of spectrum which might ultimately be made available, any required exclusion zones where the spectrum may not be used, the timing of the auction of any such spectrum,  the process for clearing incumbent users, the likely configuration of, and conditions that might apply to, any such additional spectrum, or the usability of any of this spectrum for wireless services competitive with our services or by us.  In addition, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, or NTIA, has issued a report identifying 155 MHz of spectrum for fast track evaluation and sets a timetable for making a total of 500 MHz of spectrum available through government coordination and reallocation.  See

General Regulatory Obligations - National Broadband Plan

.  Congress recently enacted legislation which provides the FCC with authority to conduct incentive auctions for both spectrum currently held by DTV stations and others, and the legislation requires the FCC to conduct the incentive auctions for DTV spectrum by 2022.  Further, Congress may pass legislation or the federal government may undertake actions or proceedings in the future to reallocate spectrum from government use to private commercial use for mobile wireless broadband services or to change the rules relating to already licensed spectrum, which may allow new or existing licensees to provide services comparable to the services we provide.



License term



The broadband PCS licenses held by us have an initial term of ten years, our AWS licenses have an initial license term of fifteen years, and our 700 MHz Lower Block A license, or 700 MHz license, has an initial term of ten years from June 12, 2009.  If we fail to meet an initial construction benchmark in June of 2013 for our 700 MHz license, the license term will be shortened to June of 2017, and if we do not take meaningful steps toward construction by June 2013, we may be subject to fines and forfeitures and/or a reduction of our licensed service area. In addition, if we fail to meet the build out requirements by the end of the license term for our 700 MHz license, we will lose our authority to serve any unserved area within our 700 MHz license area and also could be subject to fines and forfeitures, including a revocation of our 700 MHz license.  Each FCC broadband spectrum license we have constructed is material to our ability to operate and conduct our business in the area covered by that license. We also have other licenses, such as microwave licenses, which we use to backhaul traffic from our cell sites to our switch locations.



Subject to applicable conditions, all of our licenses may be renewed at the end of their terms. Our initial broadband PCS licenses for San Francisco, Sacramento, Miami and Atlanta were granted in 1997, were renewed in 2007 and are subject to renewal in January 2017; our AWS licenses were granted in November 2007 and are subject to renewal in November 2021; and our 700 MHz license was granted in June 2008 and is subject to renewal in June 2019. We intend to file renewal applications for our licenses when the renewal filing windows open.  The next wireless broadband PCS license that needs to be renewed expires in 2015.



The FCC will award a renewal expectancy with respect to licenses held by broadband commercial mobile radio service, or CMRS, licensees if the licensee meets specific performance standards. To receive a renewal expectancy, we must show that we have provided substantial service using such license during our past license term, and have substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. If we receive a renewal expectancy with respect to our existing licenses, it is very likely that the FCC will renew our existing licenses. If we do not receive a renewal expectancy with respect to our existing licenses, the FCC, in certain instances, may accept competing applications for the license renewal period, subject to a comparative hearing, and may award the license for the next term to another entity. The FCC also may deny license renewal applications for cause after appropriate notice and hearing.



In 2011, the FCC released an NPRM proposing to establish more consistent requirements for renewal of licenses, uniform policies governing discontinuances of service, and to clarify certain construction obligations across all of the wireless service bands. We are unable to predict with any certainty the likely timing or outcome of this wireless renewal standards proceeding. The proposed changes to the applicable renewal and discontinuance of service requirements may be applied to existing licenses that will be renewed in the future. If more stringent requirements are applied retroactively to our existing licenses, the FCC may determine that prior actions, or inactions, of ours, or of our predecessors in interest, jeopardize the renewal of our licenses.  The FCC has not indicated when it may take action on this NPRM.



Construction Obligations



The FCC has established various construction obligations for wireless licenses with different requirements often applying to spectrum licensed at different points in time. For example, broadband PCS licensees holding licenses originally granted as 30 MHz licenses must construct facilities to provide service covering one-third of the population of the licensed area within five









years, and two-thirds of the population of the licensed area within ten years, or otherwise provide substantial service to the licensed area within the appropriate five- and ten-year benchmarks of their initial license grant date. Broadband PCS licensees holding 10 MHz and 15 MHz licenses generally must construct facilities to provide service to 25% of the licensed area within five years of their initial license grant date, or otherwise make a showing of substantial service. AWS licenses are required to construct facilities to provide substantial service by the end of the initial 15-year license term.  The FCC defines substantial service as service which is sound, favorable and substantially above a mediocre service level only minimally warranting renewal. Either we, or our predecessor-in-interest for acquired licenses, satisfied the applicable five-year coverage requirement for each of our broadband PCS licenses and the ten-year requirement for those PCS licenses that already have been renewed.



The 700 MHz licenses are subject to more stringent performance requirements. To avoid any possible loss of rights, we would need to provide wireless coverage to 35% of the geographic area of our licensed EA in four years, or by June 2013, and 70% of the licensed geographic area by the end of the license term.  Our 700 MHz license has an adjacent digital television station, with which we must not interfere.  This restriction will make construction of this license difficult and our ability to reach an accommodation with the television operator is uncertain at best.  While the FCC occasionally has granted brief extensions to, and limited waivers of, license construction requirements, we cannot expect any such relief to be granted in light of the FCC's increased efforts to recapture unused spectrum due to the broadband wireless spectrum shortage. As a consequence, any licensee failing to meet these coverage requirements risks forfeiting their license and, in some cases, being subject to fines or monetary forfeitures.



The FCC also may adopt more stringent build-out requirements, impose further sanctions on licensees which do not meet construction thresholds or create incentives for licensees to accelerate their build-out as a result of the FCC's concern over a shortage of needed broadband wireless spectrum. The FCC also could act on its NPRM and impose more stringent renewal and discontinuance of service requirements, and apply those changes retroactively to existing licenses that will be renewed in the future.



Revocation of Licenses



The FCC may deny applications for FCC licenses, deny renewal of FCC licenses, and revoke FCC licenses, in extreme cases where a licensee is found to lack the requisite qualifications to be a licensee. For example, the FCC may revoke a license or deny an application of an entity found in a judicial or administrative proceeding to have knowingly or repeatedly engaged in conduct involving felonies, possession or sale of illegal drugs, fraud, antitrust violations or unfair competition, employment discrimination, misrepresentations to the FCC or other government agencies, serious violations of the Communications Act or FCC regulations, or a failure to meet construction obligations.   If any FCC license of ours is denied or revoked for cause, this action may have an impact on our ability to secure additional spectrum in the future, via auctions or through assignments in connection with third party private transactions.



Transfer and Assignment of FCC licenses



The Communications Act requires prior FCC approval for assignments or transfers of control of any license or construction permit, with limited exceptions. In granting FCC approval for assignments or transfers, the FCC may impose conditions upon such assignments or transfers which it finds to be in the public interest. To date, we have managed to secure FCC consent to a variety of assignments and transfers without undue delay or the imposition of conditions outside of the ordinary course.  If we are acquired, or acquire another entity, or experience a change in control, in the future, the FCC may disapprove the transfer of control or assignment, impose conditions, or otherwise require divestitures of some or all of our spectrum, licenses, or other assets.



Disaggregation, Partitioning and Spectrum Leasing



The FCC allows spectrum and service areas to be subdivided, partitioned, or disaggregated, geographically or by bandwidth, with each resulting license covering a smaller service area and/or including less spectrum. Any such partition or disaggregation is subject to FCC approval, which historically have been granted, but cannot be guaranteed. The FCC also has adopted policies to facilitate development of a secondary market for unused or underused wireless spectrum by permitting the leasing of spectrum to third parties. These policies provide us, new entrants, and our competitors with alternative means to obtain additional spectrum and allow us to dispose of excess spectrum, subject to FCC approval and applicable FCC conditions.











Spectrum and Market Concentration Limits



The FCC has certain policies intended to prevent undue concentration of the terrestrial wireless broadband mobile services market. For example, the FCC applies heightened scrutiny to transactions in which wireless spectrum is being assigned or transferred whenever both parties to the transaction hold spectrum suitable for wireless broadband mobile services in the same or in an overlapping area. Specifically, the FCC will screen a transaction for competitive concerns if, upon consummation, the acquirer, and any affiliated group whose spectrum is attributed to the acquirer, holds more than a certain amount of spectrum in a single market, or if there was a material change in the post-transaction market share concentrations as measured by the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index.  The amount of spectrum attributed to a licensee for spectrum screening purposes depends on the availability of certain spectrum.  The FCC previously has revised its spectrum screen in the context of its review of certain transactions, and it may do so again in the future.



This screen also applies to spectrum acquired via auction. These benchmarks are subject to pending reconsideration proceedings at the FCC. The FCC also is considering whether to initiate a proceeding to eliminate the case-by-case application of a spectrum screen in favor of a bright-line spectrum cap.



We are well below the current spectrum aggregation screen in all of the geographic areas in which we hold licenses, which means that the FCC's spectrum concentration policies should not prevent us from acquiring additional spectrum either by auction or in private transactions, and we may be able to be acquired by certain other carriers. However, the FCC's retention of a case-by-case approach to spectrum acquisition and the continuing revision upward of the spectrum screen may allow our competitors to make additional acquisitions of spectrum and further improve their relative spectrum positions and competitive strength.  Some of our competitors may have spectrum holdings close to, at, or over the spectrum screen amount and any acquisition of us or spectrum from us by such competitors may not be approved or divesture may be required which could deter such competitors from acquiring us or engaging in spectrum swaps or transactions with us.



Foreign Ownership Restrictions





General Regulatory Obligations



The Communications Act and the FCC's rules impose a number of requirements on wireless broadband mobile services licensees.  A failure to meet or maintain compliance with the Communications Act and the FCC's rules could subject us to fines, forfeitures, penalties, license revocations, license conditions, or other sanctions, including the imposition of mandatory reporting requirements, compliance programs or corporate monitoring, or limitations on our ability to participate in future FCC auctions or to acquire spectrum.



CMRS classification. Certain of our wireless broadband mobile services are classified at the federal level as CMRS. The FCC regulates providers of CMRS services as common carriers, which subjects us to many requirements under the Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations when we provide such services. The FCC, however, has exempted CMRS services from some typical common carrier regulations, such as tariff and interstate certification filings, which allows us and our competitors to respond more quickly to competition in the marketplace. The FCC also is encouraged by federal law to









reduce unreasonable disparities in the regulatory treatment of similar wireless broadband mobile services, such as cellular, broadband PCS, AWS, 700 MHz, and Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio, or ESMR, services, and federal law preempts state rate and entry regulation of CMRS providers, but allows states to regulate the other terms and conditions of service.



See - Network Management and Net Neutrality.

”



The FCC permits wireless broadband mobile services licensees to offer fixed services on a co-primary basis along with mobile services. This facilitates the provision of wireless local loop service by CMRS licensees using wireless links to provide local telephone service. The extent of lawful state regulation of such wireless local loop service is undetermined. While we do not presently offer a fixed service, our network can accommodate such an offering. We continue to evaluate our service offerings, and may offer a fixed service at some point in the future, which may subject us to additional state regulation.



Roaming. The FCC long has required CMRS providers to permit customers of other carriers to roam “manually” on their networks, for example, by supplying a credit card number, as long as the roaming customer's handset is technically capable with the roamed-on network. The FCC also has ruled that automatic voice roaming is a common carrier obligation for CMRS carriers and CMRS carriers must provide certain automatic voice roaming services to other CMRS carriers upon reasonable request and on a just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory basis pursuant to Sections 201 and 202 of the Communications Act. Specifically, this automatic voice roaming obligation extends to services such as ours that are real-time, two-way switched voice or data services, such as short message services, that are interconnected with the public switched network and utilize an in-network switching facility that enables the provider to reuse frequencies and accomplish seamless hand-offs of subscriber calls.  Automatic voice roaming rights are important to us because we provide service in a limited number of metropolitan areas in the United States and must rely on other carriers in order to offer roaming services outside our existing metropolitan areas. All the service plans we now offer to new subscribers (and to all existing customers who opt-in) include certain roaming coverage where we have not yet constructed our network or where we do not have licenses to provide service.



The FCC clarified in April 2010 that the automatic voice roaming obligations of broadband CMRS providers extend to both in-market and out-of-market automatic voice roaming provided that the request is reasonable. In assessing whether a request is reasonable, the FCC will consider the totality of the circumstances and may use a number of factors, including the technical compatibility of the roamer, the extent of the requesting carrier's build-out where it holds spectrum, and whether alternative roaming partners are available, to determine whether a particular roaming request is reasonable.  Our potential roaming partners may utilize these factors to deny requests by us for automatic voice roaming services for our customers.



In 2011, the FCC found that the automatic roaming obligation should be extended to services that are classified as information services (such as high speed wireless Internet access services) or to services that are not CMRS.  The FCC found that such automatic data roaming, while not a common carrier service, nonetheless shall be offered by the providers of such services on a commercially reasonable basis, when technologically compatible and technologically feasible.  In doing so, the FCC may use a number of factors to determine the commercial reasonableness of a request for such services, including the technical compatibility of the roamer, the extent of the requesting carrier's build-out where it holds spectrum, and whether alternative roaming partners are available, to determine whether a particular roaming request is reasonable.  If we are unable to obtain automatic data roaming at reasonable rates, we could have difficulty attracting and retaining certain groups of customers, especially customers using Smartphones, including Android handsets, or our 4G LTE services.  Verizon Wireless currently is









appealing the automatic data roaming rules before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  We cannot predict with any certainty the outcome of such appeal.



In its approval of the Verizon Wireless purchase of Alltel Wireless, the FCC imposed conditions that allow carriers like us who have roaming agreements with both Verizon Wireless and Alltel Wireless to use either agreement to govern all traffic exchanged with the post-merger Verizon Wireless until January 2013. We have elected to have the Alltel Wireless roaming agreement govern all of our roaming traffic with the combined Verizon Wireless-Alltel.  We and others have asked the FCC to clarify these requirements, to extend the current commitment to January 2016 and to require post-merger Verizon Wireless to offer automatic roaming for data services and features on a non-discriminatory basis. The FCC has not acted on this extension request and, to date, Verizon Wireless has not agreed to negotiate modified terms or an extended date for the current agreement or to include data services.



National Broadband Plan.  The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or Recovery Act, required the FCC to coordinate with NTIA, to establish a National Broadband Plan and benchmarks designed to ensure that all people of the United States have access to broadband capability. The resulting National Broadband Plan, which was released on March 16, 2010, makes numerous recommendations to the FCC, Congress and other regulatory agencies in an effort to promote broadband deployment.  For instance, the National Broadband Plan recommends that the FCC make available 500 MHz of additional spectrum for mobile broadband wireless services within the next ten years, of which 300 MHz is recommended to be made available for mobile use within five years.  The National Broadband Plan also makes recommendations regarding FCC action in the areas of intercarrier compensation, universal service, increasing competition, and a number of other regulatory issues.  The FCC has initiated various regulatory proceedings in an effort to implement certain recommendations in the National Broadband Plan and the FCC has acted on some of these recommendations, but the timing of any FCC action on the remaining recommendations is uncertain.“See - Interconnection and Universal Service Fund.”



Network Management and Net Neutrality



Interconnection









and-keep default compensation system adopted by the FCC.



Access. In order to offer long distance services to our customers, we resell the long distance services provided by third parties. Those third parties are obligated to pay compensation to the telecommunications carriers who terminate our subscribers' long distance calls.  Historically, CMRS carriers generally have not been entitled to receive direct access payments for the long distance calls they terminate.  The FCC has concluded that certain traffic stimulation activities of LECs which are alleged to generate excessive fees for switched access traffic and which could affect compensation for interstate traffic delivered by CMRS carriers to LECs are not reasonable.  In October 2011, the FCC adopted measures to decrease traffic stimulation.  If such measures are successful, they may reduce the amount we are obligated to pay for long distance services.



Universal Service Fund (USF)



Eligible telecommunications carriers



Services to persons with disabilities. Telecommunications carriers are required to make their services reasonably accessible to persons with disabilities. These FCC rules generally require service providers to offer equipment and services accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, if readily achievable, and to comply with FCC-mandated complaint/grievance procedures. These rules are largely untested and are subject to interpretation through the FCC's complaint process. These rules focus mainly on requirements that must be met by the manufacturers of wireless equipment, but a certain percentage of our handsets must be hearing aid compatible and we have annual reporting requirements. In addition, we are required to offer these hearing aid-compatible wireless phones for each air interface we provide.  As a result, this requirement may limit our ability to offer services using new air interfaces other than CDMA 1xRTT, such as dual mode CDMA/4G LTE handsets, may limit the number of handsets we can offer, or may increase the costs of handsets for those new air interfaces.











In October 2010, the President signed into law the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010, or the Accessibility Act.  The Accessibility Act is intended to ensure that individuals with disabilities have access to emerging Internet-protocol-based communication and video programming technologies in the 21st Century, by updating requirements of television, telephone, and Internet service providers.  These new obligations govern the provision of advanced communications services, including interconnected and non-interconnected VoIP services, to persons with disabilities, record-keeping related to adherence to these policies, and the provision of Internet browsers suitable for blind or visually-impaired individuals.  The Accessibility Act requires the FCC to implement its provisions, and the FCC has issued a series of public notices and order seeking comment on, and implementing aspects of the Accessibility Act.



E-911 service



Spectrum clearing. Spectrum allocated for AWS has been utilized by a variety of categories of commercial and governmental users. The spectrum allocated for AWS-1 was utilized by certain governmental users, many of whom are required over time to relocate from the AWS-1 spectrum. However, in some cases, not all incumbent users have relocated or are obligated to relocate and, in other cases, may not be obligated to relocate for some period of time, with varying time frames for relocation. To foster the orderly clearing of the spectrum, the FCC adopted a transition and cost sharing plan pursuant to which incumbent non-governmental users are reimbursed for relocating to other spectrum and with the costs of relocation being shared by AWS-1 licensees benefiting from the relocation. Under the FCC relocation plan, the AWS-1 licensee and the incumbent non-governmental user negotiate voluntarily for three years and then, if no agreement has been reached, the incumbent licensee is subject to mandatory relocation procedures in which the AWS-1 licensee can relocate the incumbent non-governmental licensee at the AWS-1 licensee's expense.  Since our AWS licenses were granted in 2006, the time period for voluntary relocation has lapsed.



Siting issues









significant impact on us from a financial or competitive position; however, we cannot be certain of what changes may occur that could have an impact on us in the future or whether certain groups may be successful in their endeavors.



Communications assistance for law enforcement act (CALEA). Federal law requires CMRS carriers to assist law enforcement agencies with lawful wiretaps, and imposes wiretap-related record-keeping and personnel-related obligations on us. Historically, our customer base may have been, and may continue to be, subject to a greater percentage of law enforcement requests than those of other carriers and, as a result, our compliance expenses may be proportionately greater.



Number administration. Because demand is increasing for a finite pool of telephone numbers, the FCC has adopted number pooling rules that govern how telephone numbers are allocated. Number pooling is mandatory inside the wireline rate centers that are located in counties included in the top 100 MSAs. We have implemented number pooling procedures and support pooled number roaming in all of our metropolitan areas which are in the top 100 MSAs. The FCC also has authorized states to supplement federal numbering requirements in certain respects and some of the states where we provide service have been authorized by the FCC to engage in limited numbering administration. Our ability to access telephone numbers on a timely basis is important for our ability to continue to grow our business.



Regulatory fees. We are obligated to pay certain annual regulatory fees and assessments to support FCC wireless industry regulation, as well as fees supporting federal universal service programs, number portability, regional database costs, centralized telephone numbering administration, telecommunications relay service for the hearing-impaired and application filing fees. These fees are subject to change periodically by the FCC and the manner in which carriers may recoup these fees from customers is subject to various restrictions.  In January 2010, we launched tax and regulatory fees inclusive, flat-rate service plans where we do not pass through these fees to our customers on such plans.



Number portability. The FCC has ordered all telecommunications carriers, including CMRS carriers, to support telephone number portability which enables subscribers to keep their telephone numbers when they change telecommunications carriers, whether wireless to wireless or, in some instances, wireline to wireless, and vice versa. Under these local number portability rules, a CMRS carrier located in one of the top 100 MSAs must have the technology in place to allow its customers to keep their telephone numbers when they switch to a new carrier. Outside of the top 100 MSAs, CMRS carriers receiving a request to allow end users to keep their telephone numbers must be capable of doing so within six months of the request. All CMRS carriers are required to support nationwide roaming for customers retaining their numbers.



Equal access. At present, CMRS carriers are exempt from the obligation to provide equal access to interstate long distance carriers. However, the FCC has the authority to impose rules requiring unblocked access through carrier identification codes or 800/888 numbers to long distance carriers so CMRS customers are not denied access to their chosen long distance carrier, if the FCC determines the public interest so requires. Our customers have access to alternative long distance carriers using toll-free numbers.



Customer proprietary network information (CPNI). FCC rules impose restrictions on a telecommunications carrier's use of customer proprietary network information, or CPNI, without prior customer approval, including restrictions on the use of information related to a customer's location. These rules are broad in scope and require us not only to protect customer information ourselves, but also to take steps to make sure that our agents and contractors protect this information.  CMRS carriers must take reasonable measures to discover and protect against pretexting and, in enforcement proceedings, the FCC will infer from evidence of unauthorized disclosures of CPNI that reasonable protections were not taken. The FCC has imposed substantial fines on certain wireless carriers for their failure to comply with the FCC's CPNI rules and this continues to be an area of active regulatory oversight. The FCC previously conducted a broad scale investigation into whether CMRS carriers are properly protecting the CPNI of their customers against unauthorized disclosure to third parties and may conduct further investigations in the future.  The FCC also is seeking comment on additional CPNI regulations.



Congress and state legislators also have passed and may pass legislation governing the use and protection of CPNI and other personal information. For example, Congress enacted the Telephone Records and Privacy Protection Act of 2006, which imposes criminal penalties upon persons who purchase without a customer's consent, or use fraud to gain unauthorized access to, telephone records. In addition, certain states have enacted, and other states in the future may enact, legislature relating to customer personal information. The recent and pending legislation (if enacted) may require us to change how we protect our customer's CPNI and other personal information.



Tower lighting and painting.  The FCC has established rules requiring certain towers and other structures to be painted and lighted to minimize the hazard to air navigation.  In addition, we are obligated to notify the FAA if the required lighting at a tower is no longer being maintained.  A failure to abide by these requirements could result in the imposition of fines and forfeitures or other liability if an accident occurs.  We generally collocate on existing towers and structures owned and operated









by others and do not have the right to paint or control the lighting at the site but, as an FCC-licensed carrier at the site, still could be held accountable if the lighting and painting requirements are not met.



Radio frequency limits. The FCC sets limits on radio frequency, or RF, emissions from cell sites and has rules that establish procedures intended to protect persons from RF hazards. We have policies in place designed to comply with the applicable limits and restrictions at cell sites where we have operations, but, given the number of sites involved and the nature of the requirements, we cannot guarantee that we are in compliance at each cell site at all times.



Emergency warning. The FCC has adopted technical standards, protocols, procedures, and other requirements under the Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act, or WARN Act, to govern emergency alerting standards for CMRS providers which voluntarily elect to participate. Rules, regulations and industry protocols are in the process of being developed to implement this program. We have elected to participate in the voluntary emergency alert program, although we could alter our election at a future date. Under the adopted rules, a participating carrier must notify customers of the availability of emergency alerts but may not charge separately for the alerting capability and the CMRS carrier's liability related to, or any harm resulting from, the transmission of, or failure to transmit, an emergency alert is limited. The FCC also is considering the feasibility of requiring wireless providers to distribute emergency information and, if it does so, the requirements to which we are subject under the rules and the WARN Act may change.



White spaces. The FCC has adopted rules to allow unlicensed radio transmitters to operate in the unused broadcast digital television spectrum, or White Spaces. The FCC's rules provide for both fixed and personal/portable devices to operate in the White Spaces on an unlicensed basis, subject to various protections to existing users of the spectrum. Policies and industry protocols are in the process of being developed to implement this program. Other companies may offer services in the White Spaces that compete with services offered by us.



Regulatory classifications. In January 2008, the FCC solicited comments on whether text messages and short codes are common carrier services to which CMRS carriers must provide non-discriminatory access. The outcome and such timing of any FCC action, or the effect that such a ruling would have on us, is presently unknown.  In 2011, the FCC sought comment on a petition by the Universal Service Fund Administration requesting that the FCC provide guidance as to whether short message services revenues are to be included in a carrier's interstate revenues for the purpose of calculating USF contributions.



Outage reporting. The FCC requires all telecommunications carriers to report outages meeting certain specified criteria to the FCC. These reporting requirements affect the way we track and gather data regarding system outages and repair outages.  Outage reporting is subject to active regulatory oversight, and we are potentially subject to fines and forfeitures if we fail to make timely reports.  The FCC recently extended these outage reporting rules to voice over internet protocol, or VoIP, service providers.



Customer Complaints.The FCC has established a process by which customers of wireless service providers can informally and formally complain about a provider's service.  These rules require the wireless service provider to respond to such complaints within a specified period of time.  A failure to respond to any complaints can lead to fines, forfeitures or other penalties.



Other Federal Regulation



Copyright protection. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, protects against the circumvention of technological measures employed to protect copyrighted works, or access control. Under the DMCA, the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress, or the Copyright Office, has the authority to exempt certain activities which otherwise might be prohibited by that the DMCA for a period of three years, subject to possible extension for successive three year periods. In 2006, the Copyright Office granted an exemption pertaining to the unlocking of wireless phones which facilitated moving handsets from one carrier service to another.  The exemption was extended in 2010, in a slightly modified form.  The current exemption allows circumvention of certain software locks and other firmware on wireless telephone handsets when such circumvention is solely to enable authorized connection to a wireless telecommunications network.  The Copyright Office recently initiated a proceeding to determine what exemptions will be in effect for the next three year period.  We have implemented a service called MetroFlash that enables new customers under certain circumstances to unlock and reprogram their existing CDMA handsets so that they will operate on our networks.  The MetroFlash program has been designed to meet the current exemption, but the scope of the new exemption remains untested.



Other. Our operations also are subject to various other federal laws and regulations, including antitrust, privacy, unfair competition, consumer, environmental, labor, wage, health and safety, personal information laws and regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the









Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies.  For example, the construction and operation of telecommunications facilities throughout the U.S. subjects us to a myriad of federal and state environmental laws that create reporting and permitting requirements.  These rules and regulations often are complex and subject to change and we could be held responsible for failing to comply.



State, Local and Other Regulation



The Communications Act preempts state or local regulation of market entry or rates charged by any CMRS provider. As a result, we are free to establish rates and offer new products and services with minimum state regulation. However, states and local agencies may regulate “other terms and conditions” of wireless service, and certain states where we operate have adopted rules and regulations to which we are subject, primarily focusing upon consumer protection issues and resolution of customer complaints. In addition, several state authorities have initiated actions or investigations of various wireless carrier practices. These proceedings could cause us to review and change our marketing practices. To the extent that applicable rules differ from state to state, our costs of compliance may go up and our ability to have uniform policies and practices throughout our business may be impaired. State and local governments also may manage public rights of way and can require fair and reasonable compensation from telecommunications carriers, including CMRS providers, for the use of such rights of any, so long as the government publicly discloses such compensation.



Various decisions have been rendered by, and other proceedings are pending before, state public utility commissions and courts pertaining to the extent to which the FCC's preemptive rights over CMRS rates and entry prevent states from regulating aspects of wireless service, such as billing policies, our ability to bill for third party's charges incurred by our subscribers, transfers of licenses, acquisition or sale of wireless businesses, and other consumer issues. These proceedings could subject us to additional state regulation which could cause us to incur additional costs.





Certain states and municipalities in which we provide service or plan to provide service have passed laws prohibiting texting or the use of wireless phones while driving, requiring the use of wireless headsets, or other laws affecting the use or sale of our services.  Other states and municipalities may adopt similar restrictions in the future, and one national organization is advocating a total ban on the use of wireless phones while driving.



Certain states in which we provide service are in the process of reviewing proposed legislation that would require persons selling prepaid wireless services, such as ours, to verify a customer's identity using government identification. We currently do not require our subscribers to provide a government issued identification to initiate service with us.



Future Regulation



From time to time, federal, state or local government regulators enact new or revise existing legislation or regulations that could affect us, either beneficially or adversely. Ongoing changes in the political and financial climate may foster increased legislation or regulation, which might adversely affect us.











