Item 1.Business

General

We are the fifth largest facilities-based
wireless telecommunications provider in the United States measured by the number of subscribers served. We offer wireless broadband mobile services under the MetroPCS®brand in selected major metropolitan areas in the United States over our own licensed networks or networks of entities in which we hold a substantial non-controlling
ownership interest. We provide a variety of wireless communications services to our subscribers on a no long-term contract, paid-in-advance, flat-rate, unlimited usage basis. As of January 2010, we now offer service plans on a flat-rate basis
inclusive of applicable taxes and regulatory fees. As of December 31, 2009, we had over 6.6 million subscribers.

MetroPCS Communications, Inc., or MetroPCS, was incorporated in 2004 by MetroPCS, Inc. in the state of Delaware, and MetroPCS maintains its corporate headquarters in Richardson, Texas. In July 2004, as a result of a merger between a
wholly-owned subsidiary of MetroPCS and MetroPCS, Inc., with MetroPCS, Inc. being the surviving corporation, and MetroPCS, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries became wholly-owned subsidiaries of MetroPCS. In April 2007, MetroPCS consummated an initial
public offering of its common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and became listed for trading on The New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PCS.”

Our web site address iswww.metropcs.com. Information contained on, or accessible from, our web site is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be
considered part of this report or any other filing we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We file with, or furnish to, the SEC, all our periodic filings and reports, including an annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, as well as other information. Certain information in our periodic filings and reports may incorporate by reference other filings and reports we have filed with or
furnished to the SEC. All of our reports and filings with the SEC are available free of charge through the Investor Relations page of our web site as soon as practicable after providing such information to the SEC. Copies of any of our reports and
filings also may be requested, without charge, by sending a written request to Investor Relations, MetroPCS Communications, Inc., 2250 Lakeside Blvd., Richardson, Texas 75082.

Business Overview

We currently provide our wireless broadband mobile
services primarily in selected major metropolitan areas in the United States, including the Atlanta, Boston, Dallas/Ft. Worth, Detroit, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Orlando/Jacksonville, Philadelphia, Sacramento, San Francisco
and Tampa/Sarasota metropolitan areas. As of December 31, 2009, we hold, or have access to, wireless spectrum covering a total population of approximately 144 million people in over 11,000 cities and towns in the United States. In
addition, we have roaming agreements with other wireless carriers that allow us to offer our customers service in certain areas when they are outside our service area. We provide our services using code division multiple access, or CDMA, networks
using 1xRTT technology. We have publicly announced that we are in the process of upgrading our networks in certain metropolitan areas to LTE.

Competitive Strengths

We believe our business model has the following competitive strengths that distinguish
us from our principal wireless competitors:



•Our Fixed Price Unlimited Service Plans. We currently offer our services on a no long-term contract, paid-in-advance, flat-rate, unlimited
usage basis. Starting in January 2010, we began offering our services on a flat-rate basis that includes all applicable taxes and regulatory fees. We believe we offer a compelling value proposition to our customers through our service offerings that
provide unlimited usage from within our service area for a low fixed price. Our average per minute cost to our customers for our service plans is significantly lower than the average per minute cost of other traditional wireless broadband mobile
carriers. We believe our low average cost per minute has and will continue to position us very well for the growing trend of wireline displacement.







Index to Financial Statements

•Our Densely Populated Markets.The aggregate population density of the metropolitan areas we currently serve is substantially higher than
the national average. We believe the high relative population density of the metropolitan areas we serve results in increased efficiencies in network deployment, operations and product distribution.



•Our Cost Leadership Position.We believe we have the lowest costs of any of the providers of wireless broadband mobile services in the
United States, which allows us to offer our services on a flat-rate unlimited basis at affordable prices while maintaining cash profits per subscriber as a percentage of revenue per subscriber that we believe are among the highest in the wireless
broadband mobile services industry. We currently are the fifth largest facilities-based mobile wireless broadband mobile services provider in the United States measured by number of subscribers served, and we have, and we believe we will continue to
enjoy, economies of scale as we grow the number of our subscribers.



•Our Spectrum Portfolio.As of December 31, 2009, we hold or have access to wireless spectrum covering a population of approximately
144 million people in over 11,000 cities and towns in the United States.



•Our Advanced Network.We utilize a CDMA network that is designed to provide the capacity necessary to satisfy the usage requirements of our
customers and are in the process of upgrading our network in certain metropolitan areas to LTE. We believe CDMA technology provides, and LTE will provide us with substantially more voice and data capacity per MHz of spectrum than other commonly
deployed wireless broadband mobile technologies.

Business Strategy

We believe the following components of our business strategy provide a foundation for our continued growth:



•Target Underserved Customer Segments in our Markets.We target a mass market that we believe has historically been largely underserved by
traditional wireless broadband mobile carriers. Our recent customer surveys indicate that over 60% of our customers use our service as their primary phone service and that over 64% of our customers no longer have traditional landline phone service,
which we believe is evidence that our services are gaining acceptance as a substitute for landline service.



•Offer Predictable, Affordable and Flexible Service Plans.We plan to continue to focus on increasing the value provided to our subscribers
by offering predictable, affordable and flexible service plans. In January 2010, we introduced a new family of service plans that include all applicable taxes and regulatory fees for a flat rate. We plan to continue to focus on increasing the value
provided to our subscribers.



•Remain One of the Lowest Cost Wireless Service Providers in the United States.We plan to continue to focus on controlling our costs to
allow us to remain one of the lowest cost providers of wireless broadband mobile services in the United States.



•Expand into Attractive Markets.We plan to continue to focus on expanding into metropolitan areas that have high relative population
density and customer characteristics similar to our existing metropolitan areas, which may require us to acquire or gain access to additional spectrum. We also may in the future pursue means, other than purchasing spectrum, to expand into new
metropolitan areas. See “—Competition.”



•Continue to Invest in our Network. We continue to make significant capital improvements to our network to be able to offer our subscribers
competitive and technologically advanced services, including enhanced data services, location based services and digital technology as they become increasingly available. We have announced that we plan to initially launch LTE in certain of our
metropolitan areas in the second half of 2010, which will allow us to offer additional advanced broadband services.







Index to Financial Statements

•Offer Nationwide Voice, Text and Web Services. Beginning in January 2010, all of the service plans we offer to new subscribers offer nationwide
voice, text and web services for a flat rate inclusive of applicable taxes and regulatory fees on an unlimited usage basis. In order to do so, we have entered, and plan to enter in the future, into roaming agreements with other wireless broadband
mobile service providers to allow our subscribers to receive services when they are outside our service area.

Products
and Services

We provide mobile broadband services under the MetroPCS®brand under simple and affordable flat monthly rate service plans. In 2009, our service plans started at $30 per
month, excluding taxes and regulatory fees associated with the service. In January 2010, we introduced a new family of service plans, which includes all applicable taxes and regulatory fees, offering nationwide voice, text and web services for a
flat rate beginning at $40 per month. For an additional $5 to $20 per month, our customers may select alternative service plans that offer additional features on an unlimited basis. For additional usage fees, we also provide certain other
value-added services. All our service plans are “paid-in-advance” and do not require a long-term service contract. We provide the following products and services:



•Voice Services.Our voice services allow customers to place voice calls to, and receive calls from, any telephone in the world, including
local, domestic long distance and international calls. Our services also allow customers to receive and make calls while they are located in geographic areas served by certain other wireless broadband mobile carriers through roaming arrangements
with such carriers.



•Data Services.Our data services include services provided through the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless, or BREW, platform, such as
ringtones, ring back tones, games and content applications; text messaging services (domestic and international); multimedia messaging services; mobile Internet browsing; mobile instant messaging; location based services; social networking services;
and push e-mail.



•Custom Calling Features.We offer custom calling features, including caller ID, call waiting, three-way calling and voicemail.



•Advanced Handsets.We sell a variety of handsets manufactured by nationally recognized handset manufacturers for use on our network,
including models that have cameras, can browse the Internet, play music and have other features facilitating digital data.

Service Areas

Our strategy has been to offer our services in major metropolitan markets and surrounding areas.
We commenced providing commercial service in the first quarter of 2002. We launched service in our current major metropolitan areas as follows:



•Miami, Atlanta and Sacramento in the first quarter of 2002

•San Francisco in September 2002

•Tampa/Sarasota in October 2005

•Dallas/Ft. Worth in March 2006

•Detroit in April 2006

•Orlando and portions of northern Florida in November 2006

•Los Angeles in September 2007

•Las Vegas in March 2008

•Philadelphia in July 2008

•New York and Boston in February 2009

We provide service in Los Angeles, California and certain portions of Northern Florida, including Orlando, through a wholesale arrangement with Royal Street Communications, LLC, or Royal Street
Communications, a company in which we hold an 85% non-controlling interest. For a discussion of Royal Street Communications and its wholly owned subsidiaries, or collectively with Royal Street Communications, Royal Street, please see
“— Royal Street.”







Index to Financial Statements

The table below provides an overview of the metropolitan areas in which we hold licenses, or
have access, to spectrum, including the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, licensed geographic area, the amount of broadband wireless spectrum held, and whether we hold the FCC license ourselves or provide or will provide our services in
that metropolitan area through our agreements with Royal Street, which holds the license.





Metropolitan AreaLicensed AreaMHzMetropolitan AreaLicensed AreaMHz

Core Markets:Lakeland-Winter Haven, FL(2)(10)BTA23920

Georgia:Melbourne-Titusville, FL(2)(10)BTA28920

Atlanta, GABTA02420Gainesville, FL(1)BTA15910

Gainesville, GABTA16030Orlando, FL(1)BTA33610

Athens, GABTA02220Tallahassee, FL-GABEA03510

Albany, GABEA03710Florida 6 – DixieCMA36520

Augusta-Aiken, GA-SCBEA02710Florida 7 – HamiltonCMA36620

Macon, GABEA03810Florida 8 – JeffersonCMA36720

Georgia 1- WhitfieldCMA37120Florida 9 – CalhounCMA36820

Georgia 2 – DawsonCMA37220Dallas/Ft. Worth:

Georgia 3 – ChattoogaCMA37320Dallas/Ft. Worth, TX(9)CMA00910

Georgia 4 – JasperCMA37420EA 12710

Georgia 13 – EarlyCMA38320Sherman-Denison, TX(3)BTA41810

South Florida:Shreveport-Bossier City, LA-AR(9)EA 8820

Miami-Fort Lauderdale, FLBTA29330Waco, TXCMA19420

West Palm Beach, FLBTA46930Longview-Marshall, TXCMA20610

Fort Myers, FLBTA15130Tyler, TXCMA23710

BEA03210Lufkin-Nacogdoches, TXBTA26510

Fort Pierce-Vero Beach, FLBTA15230Abilene, TXEA12810

Naples, FLBTA31330Detroit:

Florida 1 – CollierCMA36020Detroit, MIBTA11210

Florida 2 – GladesCMA36120EA 5710

Florida 11 – MonroeCMA37020Grand Rapids-Muskegon-Holland, MIEA 6210

Northern California:Michigan 9 – Cass, MICMA48020

San Fran.-Oak.-S.J., CA(5)BTA40430Southern California:

Sacramento, CA(9)(5)BTA38930Los Angeles, CA(2)(5)(10)BTA26220

Stockton, CA(5)BTA43440Bakersfield, CA(5)BTA02820

Modesto, CA(5)BTA30325Las Vegas:

Salinas-Monterey, CA(5)BTA39740Las Vegas, NV-AZ-UT(5)EA 15320

Redding, CA(5)BTA37140Philadelphia:

Merced, CA(5)BTA29125Philadelphia, PA(6)EA1210

Chico-Oroville, CA(5)BTA07940Northeast Markets:

Eureka, CA(5)BTA13425New York:

Yuba City-Marysville, CA(5)BTA48540New York-No. New Jer.-Long Island,

California 5 – San Luis ObispoCMA34020NY-NJ-CT-PA-MA-VT(7)EA 1020

New Jersey 1 – HunterdonCMA55020

California 9 – MendocinoCMA34420New Jersey 3 – SussexCMA55220

Central and Northern Florida:Boston:

Tampa-St. Petersburg, FL(9)BTA44020Boston-Worcester, MA/NH/RI/VT(7)EA 322

Sarasota-Bradenton, FLBTA40810New London-Norwich, CTBTA31910

BEA03310Providence-Pawtucket, RI – Bedford-Fall

Daytona Beach, FLBTA10720River, MABTA36410

Ocala, FLBTA32610Worcester-Fitchburg-Leominster, MABTA48010

CMA24520

Jacksonville, FL(2)BTA21220Other Regional Spectrum(8):

Northeast(8)REA 110

West(8)(9)REA 610







Index to Financial Statements



(1)License held by a wholly-owned subsidiary of Royal Street Communications.

(2)10 MHz license held by a wholly-owned subsidiary of Royal Street Communications and 10 MHz license held by MetroPCS.

(3)Comprised of Grayson and Fannin counties only.

(4)Spectrum licensed as part of West REA 6.

(5)Includes 10 MHz of spectrum from West REA 6.

(6)Spectrum licensed as part of Northeast REA 1.

(7)Includes 10 MHz of spectrum from Northeast REA 1.

(8)Portions listed in connection with other metropolitan areas.

(9)In February 2010 we entered into a spectrum exchange agreement with another wireless carrier to exchange 10 MHz of spectrum in certain markets and entered into short
term leases of such spectrum pending FCC approval of the transaction.

(10)MetroPCS has entered into long-term leases of 10MHz of spectrum to Royal Street.

The map below illustrates the geographic coverage of our licensed spectrum as of December 31, 2009.









Index to Financial Statements

Royal Street

We do not own or control the Royal Street licenses. We own a non-controlling 85% limited liability company member interest in Royal Street Communications, and we may elect only two of the five members of
Royal Street Communications’ management committee, which has the full power to direct the management of Royal Street Communications. C9 has control over the operations of Royal Street because it has the right to elect three of the five members
of Royal Street Communications’ management committee. C9 also has the right to put, or require us to purchase, all or part of its ownership interest in Royal Street Communications, but due to regulatory restrictions, we have no corresponding
right to call, or require C9 to sell to us, C9’s ownership interest in Royal Street Communications. The put right has been structured so that its exercise will not adversely affect Royal Street Communications’ continued eligibility as a
very small business DE during periods where such eligibility is required. If C9 exercises its put right, we will be required to pay a fixed return on C9’s invested capital in Royal Street Communications, which fixed return diminishes annually
beginning in the sixth year following the grant of Royal Street’s FCC licenses. These put rights become exercisable without discount later this year and expire in June 2012. If C9 exercises its put rights, Royal Street Communications will
become a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetroPCS.

Royal Street Communications holds all of its licenses and spectrum leases
through its wholly-owned subsidiaries and has entered into certain cooperative agreements with us relating to the financing, design, construction and operation of its networks. The Royal Street agreements are based on a “wholesale model”
in which Royal Street sells up to 85% of its engineered service capacity to us on a wholesale basis, which we in turn market on a retail basis under the MetroPCS brand to our customers. The remaining 15% of the engineered service capacity of Royal
Street’s network is reserved by Royal Street and may be sold to other parties. In addition, the Royal Street agreements provide that MetroPCS, at Royal Street’s request and at all times subject to Royal Street’s direction and control,
will assist Royal Street in building out its networks and provide information to Royal Street relating to its budgets and business plans as well as arrange for administrative, clerical, accounting, credit, collection, operational, engineering,
maintenance, repair, and technical services.

Additionally, we have provided, and plan to continue to provide, financing to
Royal Street, at Royal Street’s request, under a loan agreement the proceeds of which are to be used for the acquisition of licenses, build out of its licensed and spectrum lease areas, operation of the Royal Street network infrastructure, and
to make payments under the loan until Royal Street has positive free cash flow. As of December 31, 2009, the maximum amount that Royal Street could borrow from us under the loan agreement was approximately $1.6 billion of which Royal Street had
net outstanding borrowings of approximately $1.1 billion from us, $168.3 million of which was incurred in 2009. On February 17, 2010, we executed an amendment to the loan agreement which increased the amount available to Royal Street under
the loan agreement by an additional $874.0 million. Royal Street has incurred an additional $14.0 million in net borrowings through February 28, 2010. Interest accrues under the loan agreement at a rate equal to 11% per annum. As of
December 31, 2009, Royal Street has commenced repayment on the loan related to the Orlando, Lakeland-Winter Haven, Melbourne-Titusville, Gainesville and Los Angeles metropolitan areas.







Index to Financial Statements

Distribution and Marketing

We offer our products and services to our customers under the MetroPCS®brand both indirectly through independent retail outlets and directly through Company-operated retail stores. We also sell our services over the
Internet using our own branded MetroPCS®website. Our indirect distribution outlets include a mixture of local,
regional and national mass market dealers and retailers and specialty stores. Many of our dealers own and operate more than one location and may operate in more than one of our metropolitan areas. A substantial number of our retailers, dealers and
corporate store locations also accept payment for our services and many also perform other services for us. A significant portion of our gross customer additions have been added through our indirect distribution outlets. For the twelve months ended
December 31, 2009, approximately 90% of our gross customer additions were through indirect channels.

Our marketing
strategy is to create and provide products, services and communications that drive growth while optimizing our marketing return on investment and minimizing the cost to acquire customers. Our marketing campaigns emphasize that MetroPCS offers
affordable, predictable and flexible unlimited service plans. MetroPCS builds consumer awareness and promotes the MetroPCS brand by strategic local advertising to develop our brand and support our indirect and direct distribution channels. We
advertise primarily through local radio, cable, television, outdoor and local print media. In addition, we believe we have benefited from a significant number of word-of-mouth customer referrals.

Customer Care, Billing and Support Systems

We outsource some or all of our customer care, billing, payment processing and logistics to nationally recognized third-party providers.

Our outsourced call centers are staffed with professional and bilingual customer service personnel, who are available to assist our
customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Some of these outsourced call centers are located outside the United States, in Mexico, Antigua, Panama, and the Philippines, which facilitates the efficient provision of customer support to our large and
growing subscriber base, including Spanish speaking customers. We also provide automated voice response service to assist our customers with routine information requests.

Network Operations

We and Royal Street operate 1xRTT CDMA networks in all
of the metropolitan areas where we have launched service and we have announced plans to upgrade our networks in certain metropolitan areas to LTE. A network includes a mobile switching center (for CDMA) or enhanced packet core (for LTE) which serves
several purposes, including routing traffic, managing call handoffs, managing access to the public switched telephone network and providing access to voicemail and other value-added services, base stations (for CDMA) or eNodeBs (for LTE), cell sites
or distributed antenna system, or DAS, nodes, and backhaul facilities, which carry traffic to and from our cell sites and our switching facilities. Currently, almost all cell sites in the network are co-located, meaning our and Royal Street’s
equipment is located on leased facilities that are owned by third parties who retain the right to lease the facilities to additional carriers. The switching centers and national operations center provide around-the-clock monitoring of our network.

Our switches connect to the public switched telephone network through fiber rings leased from third-parties, which transmit
originating and terminating traffic between our equipment and local exchange and long distance carriers. We also have negotiated interconnection agreements with relevant local exchange carriers, or LECs, in our service areas.

We use third-party providers for long distance and international services and the majority of our backhaul services.

Network Technology

Communications between the subscriber wireless device and our network is accomplished by a frequency management technology, or “air interface protocol.” The FCC has not mandated a universal air interface protocol for wireless
broadband systems. We and Royal Street have deployed 1xRTT CDMA technology, which is one of the dominant air interface protocols, and are in the process of upgrading our networks in certain metropolitan areas to LTE. Our and Royal Street’s
decision to use CDMA is based on what we believe are several key advantages of CDMA over other air interface protocols, including higher network capacity, longer handset battery life, fewer







Index to Financial Statements

dropped calls, simplified frequency planning, efficient migration path as our CDMA technology can be easily upgraded to fourth generation air interface protocols in a cost effective manner, and
increased privacy and security. Our and Royal Street’s decision to upgrade to LTE is based on what we believe are several key advantages of LTE over other fourth generation air interface protocols, including higher network capacity, potential
worldwide market for devices and equipment, and an efficient upgrade path to voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, and other advanced services. CDMA and LTE are incompatible with certain other air interface protocols. Customers and former customers
of other carriers may not be able to use their wireless devices on our or Royal Street’s networks because either their wireless device uses a different air interface protocol or the other carriers with compatible air interface protocols may
have restricted the customers from changing the programming of their wireless device to allow it to be used on networks other than the original carrier’s network. We also purchase EVRC-B, or 4G vocoder, handsets, which will allow for
greater capacity in our network.

Competition

The market for our wireless services is highly competitive. We compete directly in each of our metropolitan areas with other facilities and non-facilities based wireless broadband mobile service
providers, wireline, Internet, cable, satellite and other communications service providers by providing a wireless alternative to traditional wireline service. We believe that competition for subscribers among wireless broadband mobile providers is
based mostly on price, service area, services and features, call quality and customer service.

The current facilities-based
wireless broadband mobile industry is dominated by four national carriers — AT&T, Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel and T-Mobile — and their prepaid affiliates or brands. National carriers typically offer post-paid plans that subsidize
wireless devices, but require long-term service contracts and credit checks or deposits. The national carriers also have introduced, either directly or through their affiliates, increasingly competitive unlimited fixed-rate services plans in areas
in which we offer service. These unlimited fixed-rate service plans may cause other competitors to introduce similar or increasingly competitive unlimited fixed-rate plans. In addition, some facilities-based regional wireless broadband mobile
carriers, such as Cricket Communications, an affiliate of Leap Wireless International, or Leap, have unlimited fixed-rate service plans similar to ours and compete in certain of our metropolitan areas.

In addition to facilities-based wireless broadband mobile carriers, the wireless broadband mobile industry also includes carriers such as
Tracfone and PagePlus that are non-facility based mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, that contract with wireless network operators to provide a separately branded wireless service. In some cases these MVNOs have business arrangements with
one of the other major nationwide carriers, which may allow them to provide services over a more extensive geographical area network than our service. These MVNOs offer increasingly competitive unlimited flat rate service plans similar to the
service plans we provide in addition to offering more traditional prepaid plans that charge by the minute.

The wireless
broadband industry also includes facilities-based providers, such as Clearwire who is building a network utilizing WiMax, which is the name given to a family of digital technologies that are capable of supporting high-speed, long-range wireless
services suitable for mobility applications, using spectrum predominately in the 2.5 GHz range to construct a national network to provide wireless data and telecommunications services. Clearwire owners include Google, Intel, Sprint, Comcast, and
Time Warner Cable.

The wireline industry is dominated by large incumbent carriers, such as AT&T and Verizon, and also
includes competitive local exchange or VoIP service providers. The cable industry also is dominated by large carriers such as Time Warner Cable, Comcast and Cox Communications. These cable companies, along with cable company Advance/Newhouse, formed
a joint venture called SpectrumCo LLC, or SpectrumCo, which bid on and acquired 20 MHz of advanced wireless services, or AWS, spectrum in a number of major metropolitan areas throughout the United States, including all of the major metropolitan
areas in which we have built.

In the future, we may face competition from mobile satellite service, or MSS, providers, and
from resellers of these services. The FCC has granted some MSS providers, and may grant others, the flexibility to deploy an ancillary terrestrial component to their satellite services. This added flexibility may enhance MSS providers’ ability
to offer more competitive mobile services. In addition, several large satellite companies, computer companies, and Internet search and portal companies have indicated an interest in establishing next generation wireless networks, and certain VoIP
providers have indicated that in the future they may acquire FCC licenses or use unlicensed spectrum to offer wireless services to compete directly with us. The FCC also has adopted an order that allows companies to provide wireless services on an
unlicensed basis in certain unused portions of the television spectrum.







Index to Financial Statements

Further, we also may face competition from new entrants and others using WiMax on exclusively licensed or unlicensed spectrum. Additionally, we may compete in the future with companies that offer
new technologies and market other services we do not offer or may not be available with our network technology, from our vendors or within our spectrum. Some of our competitors do or may bundle these other services together with their wireless
communications service, which customers may find more attractive. Energy companies, utility companies and satellite companies also are expanding their services to offer telecommunications services.

There continues to be substantial merger and acquisition activity in the wireless industry. We have in the past acquired, and may in the
future acquire, spectrum to enter new metropolitan areas. We also may in the future consider acquisitions of, or other business combinations with, companies in addition to acquisitions of spectrum. For example, in 2007, we made a public proposal to
merge with Leap, which we subsequently withdrew. In the future, there could be discussions between us and other companies regarding potential acquisitions, divestitures, other business combinations, or transactions between the companies.

Many of our competitors’ resources are substantially greater, and their market shares are larger, than ours. For example, a number
of our competitors have significantly greater spectrum and financial resources and human capital than we do. Additionally, many of our wireless competitors offer larger coverage areas and nationwide calling plans that do not give rise to additional
roaming charges for their customers. Further, the marginal incremental cost of some of our competitors may be substantially lower than our cost to provide service and may allow the competition to price their services at rates that we cannot
profitably provide. Many of our competitors offer service plans with large bundles of minutes of use at lower per minute prices or price plans with unlimited nights and weekends and some of our competitors offer unlimited service plans similar to
ours. Our competitors’ plans could adversely affect our ability to maintain our pricing, market penetration, growth and customer retention.

In addition, large national wireless broadband mobile services carriers have been reluctant to enter into roaming agreements at attractive rates with smaller and regional carriers like us, which limits
our ability to serve certain market segments, and recent FCC actions to promote automatic roaming do not resolve these difficulties. This competitive pressure also may increase as our basic service plans now include nationwide service.

The policies of the United States government have made, and may continue to make, additional spectrum for wireless services available in
each of our markets, which may increase the number of our competitors and enhance our competitors’ ability to offer additional plans and services. Further, since many of our competitors are large companies, they have on occasion been able to
convince handset manufacturers to provide the newest handsets exclusively to them. Further, at least one manufacturer of wireless products, Google, is selling its handsets directly to the public without including service. Our competitors also can
afford to heavily subsidize the price of a subscriber’s handset because they have greater resources than us, a different business model than us, and may require their customers to enter into long term contracts. The FCC has indicated it may
examine, and Congress is considering legislation that may limit, early termination fees for the long term contracts used by national wireless broadband mobile services carriers, which could prompt them to reduce the subsidization of handsets and
limit their long term contracts.

All of these factors may detract from our ability to attract customers from certain market
segments and may require us to add additional features or services to our existing service plans, or make other changes to our service plans.

Seasonality

Our customer activity is influenced by seasonal effects related to traditional retail selling
periods and other factors that arise from our target customer base. Net customer additions are typically strongest in the first and fourth calendar quarters of the year. Softening of sales and increased customer turnover, or churn, in the second and
third calendar quarters of the year usually combine to result in fewer net customer additions during the second and third calendar quarters. However, sales activity and churn can be strongly affected by the launch of new metropolitan areas and areas
surrounding our existing metropolitan areas, as well as promotional activity, which could reduce or outweigh certain seasonal effects. For a more detailed discussion of seasonality in our business, please read “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Seasonality.”







Index to Financial Statements

Inflation

We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our operations.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we have approximately 3,600 employees. We believe our relationship with our employees is good.
None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or represented by an employee union.

Regulation

The wireless telecommunications industry is regulated extensively by the federal government and, to varying degrees, by state and local
governments. Congress, state legislatures, municipalities, and federal, state and local regulators have enacted legislation, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations, instituted administrative rulemakings, and courts have issued judicial decisions,
affecting the telecommunications industry. Due to the latest change in the party affiliation of the President of the United States and changes in the composition of Federal and state legislatures, the political environment, and financial conditions,
the regulation of the telecommunications industry has been, and is expected to remain in the future, in a state of constant flux.

Federal
Regulation

Our business is subject to extensive federal regulation under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or
the Communications Act, the implementing regulations adopted thereunder by the FCC, judicial and regulatory decisions interpreting and implementing the Communications Act, and other federal statutes, and judicial and regulatory decisions. These
statutes, regulations, decisions and associated policies govern, among other things, the allocation and licensing of radio spectrum; the ownership, lease, revocation, transfer of control and assignment of wireless licenses; the ownership of our
stock by non-United States citizens; the ongoing technical, operational and service requirements under which we must operate; the timing, nature and scope of network construction; the rates, terms and conditions of our service; our protection and
use of customer information; roaming policies; our obligations to meet various law enforcement and public safety requirements such as E-911; the interconnection of communications networks; the provision of subscriber equipment; the location of
network assets; and the use of rights of way.

Broadband Spectrum Allocations

We utilize paired radio spectrum licensed by the FCC to provide our wireless broadband mobile services. The FCC has allocated paired
broadband spectrum in a variety of different bands, and we and many of our competitors utilize a combination of spectrum in the various bands to provide wireless services. The principal spectrum bands used to provide terrestrial broadband wireless
mobile services in the United States are as follows, all of which can be used to provide services competitive with the services we offer:

Cellular spectrum. The FCC has assigned two cellular licenses with 25 MHz of spectrum each in the 800 MHz band on a metropolitan statistical area, or MSA, and rural service area, or RSA, basis.
There are 306 MSAs and 428 RSAs in the United States. MSAs and RSAs are defined by the Office of Management and Budget, or OMB, and the FCC, respectively.

PCS spectrum. The FCC has assigned licenses to use 130 MHz of radio spectrum in the 1.9 GHz band for broadband personal communications services, or PCS. The PCS spectrum has been licensed in a
variety of bandwidths (30 MHz, 15 MHz and 10 MHz) and market areas (nationwide, major trading areas, or MTAs, and basic trading areas, or BTAs). Under the broadband PCS licensing plan, the United States and its possessions and territories are
divided into 493 BTAs, all of which are included within 51 MTAs. Both MTAs and BTAs are defined by Rand McNally & Company, as supplemented by the FCC.

SMR spectrum. The FCC has licensed 19 MHz of specialized mobile radio, or SMR spectrum, plus an additional 7.5 MHz of spectrum that is available for SMR as well as other services. FCC policy
permits flexible use of this spectrum, including the provision of enhanced mobile wireless services.







Index to Financial Statements

AWS-1 spectrum. The FCC has assigned 90 MHz of spectrum to be used for advanced
wireless services, or AWS. The FCC divided the 90 MHz of spectrum into two 10 MHz and one 20 MHz paired blocks assigned on a regional economic area grouping, or REAG, basis; one 10 MHz and one 20 MHz paired blocks each assigned on an economic area,
or EA, basis; and a 20 MHz paired block assigned on a Cellular Marketing Area, or CMA, basis. The CMAs generally correspond to MSAs and RSAs. Under the AWS band plan, the United States is divided into 176 EAs, 12 REAGs, and 734 CMAs. The EAs are
geographic areas defined by the Regional Economic Analysis Division of the Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce, as supplemented by the FCC. REAGs are collections of EAs.

700 MHz spectrum. The FCC has assigned 62 MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band. The FCC divided the 62 MHz of spectrum into two 12 MHz
paired blocks and one 6 MHz unpaired block licensed on a CMA or EA basis; one 22 MHz paired block licensed on a REAG basis, and one 10 MHz paired block, or D Block, assigned on a nationwide basis to be used as part of a private/public safety
partnership. Holders of the 22 MHz licenses, most of which are held by one of our competitors, must provide a network platform that is generally open to third-party wireless devices and applications, or an Open Network Platform, by allowing
consumers to use the handset of their choice and to download and use the applications of their choice, subject to certain network management conditions that are intended to allow the licensee to protect the network from harm. As originally
allocated, the D Block licensee was required to enter into a public/private partnership with a designated public safety broadband licensee for the purpose of constructing and operating a nationwide interoperable broadband network for public safety
on a nationwide public safety license and to provide public safety with priority access during emergencies to the D Block owned by the licensee. The D Block remained unpurchased at auction, and the FCC currently is considering revisions to the
auction and service rules that will apply to this license.

BRS spectrum. In 2004, the FCC ordered that the 2496-2690
MHz band, or the 2.5 GHz band, be reconfigured over a period of time into upper and lower-band segments for low-power operations, with a mid-band segment for high-power operations. This spectrum is allocated and licensed in the United States and its
possessions and territories in 493 BTAs. The Commission concluded in 2008 that 55.5 MHz of the broadband radio service, or BRS, spectrum holdings in the 2.5 GHz band will be included in the Commission’s product market for mobile
telephony/broadband services, and taken into consideration when the Commission is assessing the competitive impact of broadband wireless merger and acquisition transactions.

Future allocations

License term

The broadband PCS licenses held by us and by Royal Street
have an initial term of ten years, our AWS licenses have an initial license term of fifteen years, and our 700 MHz license has an initial term of ten years from June 13, 2009. If we fail to meet an initial construction benchmark in June of 2013
for our 700 MHz license, the license term will be shortened to June of 2017, and we may be subject to fines and forfeitures and/or a reduction of our licensed service area. In addition, if we fail to meet the build out requirements by the end of the
license term for our 700 MHz license, we will lose our authority to serve any unserved area within our 700 MHz license area and could be subject to fines and forfeitures, including a revocation of our 700 MHz license. Subject to applicable
conditions, all of our and Royal Street’s licenses may be renewed at the end of their terms. Our initial broadband PCS licenses for San Francisco, Sacramento, Miami and Atlanta were granted in 1997, were renewed in 2007 and are subject to







Index to Financial Statements

renewal in January 2017; our AWS licenses were granted in November 2006 and are subject to renewal in November 2021; and our 700 MHz license was granted in June 2008 and is subject to renewal in
June 2019. Each FCC license is essential to our and Royal Street’s ability to operate and conduct our and Royal Street’s business in the area covered by that license. We also have other licenses, such as microwave licenses, which we use to
provide service. We intend to file renewal applications for our licenses when the renewal filing windows open.

The FCC may
deny license renewal applications for cause after appropriate notice and hearing. The FCC will award a renewal expectancy to broadband commercial mobile radio service, or CMRS, licensees if the licensee meets specific performance standards. To
receive a renewal expectancy, we must show that we have provided substantial service during our past license term, and have substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. If we receive a renewal expectancy,
it is very likely that the FCC will renew our existing licenses. If we do not receive a renewal expectancy, the FCC may accept competing applications for the license renewal period, subject to a comparative hearing, and may award the license for the
next term to another entity.

Construction Obligations

The FCC has established various construction obligations for wireless licenses with different requirements often applying to spectrum licensed at different points in time. For example, broadband PCS
licensees holding licenses originally granted as 30 MHz licenses must construct facilities to provide service covering one-third of the population of the licensed area within five years, and two-thirds of the population of the licensed area within
ten years, or otherwise provide substantial service to the licensed area within the appropriate five- and ten-year benchmarks of their initial license grant date. Broadband PCS licensees holding 10 MHz and 15 MHz licenses generally must construct
facilities to provide service to 25% of the licensed area within five years of their initial license grant date, or otherwise make a showing of substantial service. The FCC defines substantial service as service which is sound, favorable and
substantially above a mediocre service level only minimally warranting renewal. Either we or the previous licensee satisfied the applicable five-year coverage requirement for each of our broadband PCS licenses and the ten-year requirement for those
PCS licenses that have already been renewed. All AWS licensees will be required to construct facilities to provide substantial service by the end of the initial 15-year license term. The initial 15-year license term for our AWS licenses does not
expire until November 2021.

The 700 MHz licenses are subject to more stringent performance requirements which are measured
from June 12, 2009. As a licensee of an EA license block, we are required to build systems that provide wireless coverage to 35% of the licensed geographic area in four years and 70% of the licensed geographic area by the end of the license
term. While the FCC occasionally has granted brief extensions to, and limited waivers of, license construction requirements, any licensee failing to meet these coverage requirements risks forfeiting their license and, in some cases, being subject to
fines or monetary forfeitures.

As a result of the FCC’s concern over a shortage of needed broadband wireless spectrum,
it may consider adopting more stringent build-out requirements, possible sanctions for licensees which do not meet certain construction thresholds or incentives for licensees to accelerate their build-out.

Revocation of Licenses

The
FCC may deny applications for FCC licenses and in extreme cases revoke FCC licenses, if it finds that a licensee lacks the requisite qualifications to be a licensee. For example, the FCC may revoke a license or deny an application of an entity found
in a judicial or administrative proceeding to have knowingly or repeatedly engaged in conduct involving felonies, possession or sale of illegal drugs, fraud, antitrust violations or unfair competition, employment discrimination, misrepresentations
to the FCC or other government agencies, serious violations of the Communications Act or FCC regulations, or a failure to meet construction obligations.

Transfer and Assignment of FCC licenses

The Communications Act requires
prior FCC approval for assignments or transfers of control of any license or construction permit, with limited exceptions. In granting FCC approval for assignments or transfers of control, the FCC may prohibit or impose conditions on such
assignments or transfers of control. To date, we have managed to secure the requisite approval of the FCC to a variety of assignment and transfer of control applications without undue delay or the imposition of conditions outside of the ordinary
course. If we are acquired in the future, the FCC







Index to Financial Statements

may disapprove the transfer of control or assignment, impose conditions, or otherwise require divestitures of some or all of our spectrum, licenses, or other assets.

Disaggregation, Partitioning and Spectrum Leasing

The FCC allows spectrum and service areas to be subdivided, partitioned, or disaggregated, geographically or by bandwidth, with each resulting license covering a smaller service area and/or including less
spectrum. Any such partition or disaggregation is subject to FCC approval, which generally is received, but cannot be guaranteed. The FCC also has adopted policies to facilitate development of a secondary market for unused or underused wireless
spectrum by permitting the leasing of spectrum to third parties. These policies provide us, new entrants, and our competitors with alternative means to obtain additional spectrum and allow us to dispose of excess spectrum, subject to FCC approval
and applicable FCC conditions.

Spectrum and Market Concentration Limits

The FCC has certain policies intended to prevent undue concentration of the terrestrial wireless broadband mobile services market. For
example, the FCC conducts a case-by-case review of all transactions where wireless spectrum is being assigned or a transfer of control is occurring where both parties to the transaction hold CMRS spectrum in the same or in an overlapping area. The
FCC will screen a transaction for competitive concerns if, upon consummation, the acquirer and any affiliated group is attributed to hold the following amount of spectrum in a single market, or if there was a material change in the post-transaction
market share concentrations as measured by the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index as follows:



•For geographic areas in which AWS-1 and certain BRS spectrum is available, 145 MHz.



•For geographic areas in which AWS-1 is available but certain BRS is not available, 125 MHz.



•For geographic areas in which certain BRS spectrum is available but AWS-1 is not available, 115 MHz.



•For geographic areas in which neither BRS spectrum or AWS-1 is available, 95 MHz.

This screen also applies to spectrum acquired via auction. These benchmarks are subject to pending reconsideration proceedings at the FCC.
The FCC also is considering whether to initiate a proceeding to eliminate case-by-case application of a spectrum screen entirely in favor of a bright-line spectrum cap.

We are well below the spectrum aggregation screen in the geographic areas in which we hold or have access to licenses which means we may be able to acquire additional spectrum either by auction or in
private transactions and we may be able to be acquired by certain other carriers. However, the FCC’s retention of a case-by-case approach to spectrum acquisition and the continuing revision upward of the spectrum screen may allow our
competitors to make additional acquisitions of spectrum and further consolidate the industry.

Foreign Ownership Restrictions







Index to Financial Statements

foreign investment which places us over the foreign ownership restriction as set forth in our articles of incorporation.

Designated Entity Requirements

The FCC has established rules that are
designed to promote the granting of spectrum licenses to small and very small businesses, entrepreneurs and other DEs. Some licenses, called closed licenses, have been set aside solely for DEs to acquire at auction. DEs also can qualify for bidding
discounts of varying amounts (e.g., 15% or 25%) when acquiring licenses available to all parties, called open licenses, at auction. We are an investor in Royal Street Communications, which is a very small business DE that must meet and continue to
abide by the FCC’s DE requirements until at least December 2010.

Further, the FCC has adopted rules requiring a DE to seek approval for any change in circumstances that may affect its ongoing eligibility, such as entry into an impermissible material relationship, even if the event would not have
triggered a reporting requirement under the FCC’s existing rules. In connection with this rule change, the FCC now requires DEs to file annual reports with the FCC listing and summarizing all agreements and arrangements that relate to
eligibility for DE benefits. The FCC also indicated that it will step up its audit program of DEs. Royal Street has filed all of its required annual reports with the FCC.

Several interested parties have filed appeals of the New DE Requirements. These appeals are ongoing. The relief sought by the petitioners in their underlying appeals includes overturning the results of
Auctions 66 (AWS-1) and 73 (700 MHz). If the petitioners are ultimately successful in obtaining this relief, any licenses granted to us as a result of Auction 66 and/or 73 may be revoked. Our payments to the FCC for the revoked licenses would be
refunded, but without interest. If our licenses are revoked we will have been required to pay interest to our lenders on the money paid to the FCC for the AWS-1 and 700 MHz licenses and we will have incurred clearing, construction, and other
expenses with respect to the AWS-1 licenses, but would not receive interest or any compensation for our clearing,







Index to Financial Statements

construction, and other activities on the spectrum. We have constructed our Las Vegas, Philadelphia and New York metropolitan networks on AWS-1 spectrum, and we only have AWS-1 spectrum in these
metropolitan areas. If we lost our AWS-1 licenses, we would cease being able to provide service in those metropolitan areas where we have already launched service and would not be able to launch service in those markets where we have not yet
launched service.

In connection with the changes to the DE rules, the FCC also is considering whether additional restrictions
should be adopted in its DE program. Based on the FCC’s prior rulings, we do not expect any further changes in the DE rules to be applied retroactively to Royal Street. We do not know what additional changes, if any, will be made to the DE
program as a result of this further rulemaking.

General Regulatory Obligations

The Communications Act and the FCC’s rules impose a number of requirements on wireless broadband mobile services licensees. A failure to
meet or maintain compliance with the Communications Act and the FCC’s rules could subject us to fines, forfeitures, penalties, license revocations, or other sanctions, including the imposition of mandatory reporting requirements, limitation on
our ability to participate in future FCC auctions or acquisitions of spectrum, and compliance programs and corporate monitors.

CMRS classification. Our wireless broadband mobile services are classified at the federal level as CMRS. The FCC regulates providers of CMRS services as common carriers, which subjects us to many requirements under the Communications
Act and FCC rules and regulations. The FCC, however, has exempted CMRS services from some typical common carrier regulations, such as tariff and interstate certification filings, which allows us and our competitors to respond more quickly to
competition in the marketplace. The FCC also is encouraged by federal law to reduce unreasonable disparities in the regulatory treatment of similar wireless broadband mobile services, such as cellular, broadband PCS, AWS, 700 MHz, and Enhanced
Specialized Mobile Radio, or ESMR, services, and federal law preempts state rate and entry regulation of CMRS providers.

The
FCC has found, for the time being, that wireless broadband Internet access service offered at speeds in excess of 200 kbps in at least one direction is an information service under the Communications Act, and thus is not subject to traditional
common carrier regulation. In addition, the FCC has found that the transmission component of wireless broadband Internet access service meets the definition of telecommunications under the Communications Act and that the offering of a
telecommunications transmission component as part of a functionally integrated Internet access service offering is not a regulated telecommunications service under the Communications Act. Further, the FCC has found that mobile wireless broadband
Internet access service is not a “commercial mobile service” under Section 332 of the Communications Act. Carriers offering mobile wireless broadband Internet access services are not considered common carriers and have no common
carrier obligations with respect to this service. Accordingly, as a result of such classification decisions, we and our competitors have greater flexibility in establishing the terms and conditions, including pricing, of this service. These
classification decisions could change over time, either as a result of FCC or Congressional actions, in an effort to assure that competing services are subject to comparable regulatory requirements.

The FCC permits wireless broadband mobile services licensees to offer fixed services on a co-primary basis along with mobile services. This
facilitates the provision of wireless local loop service by CMRS licensees using wireless links to provide local telephone service. The extent of lawful state regulation of such wireless local loop service is undetermined. While we do not presently
offer a fixed service, our network can accommodate such an offering. We continue to evaluate our service offerings, and may offer a fixed service at some point in the future.

Spectrum clearing. Spectrum allocated for AWS has been utilized by a variety of categories of commercial and governmental users. To
foster the orderly clearing of the spectrum, the FCC adopted a transition and cost sharing plan pursuant to which incumbent non-governmental users could be reimbursed for relocating out of the band and the costs of relocation would be shared by
AWS-1 licensees benefiting from the relocation. The FCC has established a plan where the AWS-1 licensee and the incumbent non-governmental user are to negotiate voluntarily for three years and then, if no agreement has been reached, the incumbent
licensee is subject to mandatory relocation procedures in which the AWS-1 licensee can relocate the incumbent non-governmental licensee at the AWS-1 licensee’s expense. The spectrum allocated for AWS-1 was utilized by certain governmental
users, many of whom are required over time to relocate from the AWS-1 spectrum. However, in some cases, not all governmental users have yet relocated or are obligated to relocate and, in other cases, incumbent users are not obligated to relocate for
some period of time, with varying time frames for relocation.







Index to Financial Statements

Spectrum allocated for 700 MHz previously was occupied by analog television broadcast
licensees and currently is occupied by certain wireless microphone users. By federal law, all existing analog television broadcast licenses were obligated to vacate the 700 MHz spectrum by the digital television transition date, or June 12,
2009, without any reimbursement from 700 MHz licensees. The FCC also has ruled that all wireless microphone users are obligated to vacate the 700 MHz currently allocated for wireless services by June 12, 2010, but this order is not yet final.
Licensees granted 700 MHz licenses are not obligated to pay for the relocation of wireless microphones from the 700 MHz band.

E-911 service

Communications assistance for law enforcement act (CALEA). Federal law requires CMRS carriers to assist law enforcement agencies with
lawful wiretaps, and imposes wiretap-related record-keeping and personnel-related obligations. Historically, our customer base may have been, and may continue to be, subject to a greater percentage of law enforcement requests than those of other
carriers and, as a result, our compliance expenses may be proportionately greater.

Number administration. Because
demand is increasing for a finite pool of telephone numbers, the FCC has adopted number pooling rules that govern how telephone numbers are allocated. Number pooling is mandatory inside the wireline rate centers that are located in counties included
in the top 100 MSAs. We have implemented number pooling procedures and support pooled number roaming in all of our metropolitan areas which are in the top 100 MSAs. The FCC also has authorized states to supplement federal numbering requirements in
certain respects and some of the states where we provide service have been authorized by the FCC to engage in limited numbering administration. Our ability to access telephone numbers on a timely basis is important for our ability to continue to
grow our business.

Number portability. The FCC has ordered all telecommunications carriers, including CMRS carriers,
to support telephone number portability which enables subscribers to keep their telephone numbers when they change telecommunications carriers, whether wireless to wireless or, in some instances, wireline to wireless, and vice versa. Under these
local number portability rules, a CMRS carrier located in one of the top 100 MSAs must have the technology in place to allow its customers to keep their telephone numbers when they switch to a new carrier. Outside of the top 100 MSAs, CMRS carriers
receiving a request to allow end users to keep their telephone numbers must be capable of doing so within six months of the request. All CMRS carriers are required to support nationwide roaming for customers retaining their numbers.

Interconnection. FCC rules provide that all telecommunications carriers are obligated upon reasonable request to interconnect
directly or indirectly with the facilities and networks of other telecommunications carriers. All LECs also must, upon request, enter into mutual or reciprocal compensation arrangements with CMRS carriers for the exchange of intra-MTA traffic, under
which each carrier compensates the other for terminated intra-MTA traffic originating on the compensating carrier’s network. Further, at a CMRS carrier’s request, incumbent local exchange carriers must exchange intra-MTA traffic with CMRS
carriers at rates based on the FCC’s costing rules or rates set by state public utility commissions applying the FCC’s rules. CMRS carriers also have an obligation to engage in







Index to Financial Statements

voluntary negotiation and may be subject to arbitration with incumbent local exchange carriers similar to those imposed on the incumbent local exchange carriers pursuant to Section 252 of
the Communications Act. Once an incumbent local exchange carrier requests negotiation of an interconnection arrangement, both carriers are obligated to begin paying the FCC’s default rates for all intra-MTA traffic exchanged after the request
for negotiation.

CMRS carriers generally are obligated to pay reasonable compensation to a LEC in connection with intra-MTA
traffic originated by the CMRS carrier and terminated by the LEC. While these rules provide that LECs may not charge CMRS carriers for facilities used by CMRS carriers to terminate LECs’ traffic, LECs may charge CMRS carriers for facilities
used to transport and terminate CMRS traffic and for facilities used for transit purposes to carry CMRS carrier traffic to a third carrier. Since 2005, no LEC has been permitted to impose rates by state tariff on a going-forward basis for the
termination of a CMRS carrier’s intra-MTA traffic. We generally have been successful in negotiating arrangements with carriers with whom we exchange intra-MTA traffic. In addition, the FCC rules relating to intercarrier compensation are under
review by the FCC in various rulemaking and adjudicatory proceedings, and it is not known whether or not there will be material changes in the applicable rules, when they might take effect and whether they will be beneficial or detrimental to us.

Access. In order to offer long distance services to our customers, we resell the long distance services provided by
third parties. Those third parties are obligated to pay compensation to the telecommunications carriers who terminate our subscribers’ long distance calls. Historically, CMRS carriers generally have not been entitled to receive direct access
payments for the long distance calls they terminate, but must pay access charges to other telecommunications carriers for calls they terminate. In October 2007, the FCC initiated a proceeding to determine whether the FCC’s current rules ensure
that the rates for switched access services charged by LECs are just and reasonable. In this and related proceedings, the FCC is investigating certain traffic stimulation activities of LECs which are alleged to generate excessive fees for switched
access traffic and which could affect compensation for intra-MTA traffic delivered by CMRS carriers to LECs. The FCC also is considering whether sharing of access revenues is appropriate. We and others have asked the FCC to cap the amount of
compensation paid to LECs for traffic that is grossly imbalanced. If the FCC adopts such proposed limitations, it could reduce the amount of compensation we are obligated to pay LECs, and may affect the amount of access sharing revenue we receive.

Universal Service Fund (USF)

Eligible telecommunications carriers. Wireless broadband mobile carriers may be designated as Eligible
Telecommunications Carriers, or ETCs, and may receive universal service support for providing service to customers using wireless service in high cost areas or to certain qualifying low income customers. Certain competing wireless broadband mobile
carriers operating in states where we operate have obtained or applied for ETC status. Their receipt of universal service support funds may affect our competitive status in a particular market by allowing our competitors to offer service at a lower
rate or for free, subsidized by the universal service fund. The FCC is considering altering, reducing, or capping the amount of universal support received by CMRS ETC providers. In May 2008, the FCC adopted an interim cap on payments to ETCs under
the USF relating to providing wireless service in high cost areas, pending comprehensive reform that is now under consideration by the agency. We may decide in the future to apply for an ETC designation in certain qualifying high cost areas where we
provide wireless services or to provide subsidized service to certain low income customers, though our ability to qualify may be affected by ongoing changes and possible future limitations in the program. If we are approved, these payments would be
an additional revenue source that we could use to support the services we provide in high cost areas or to certain low income customers.







Index to Financial Statements

Regulatory fees. We are obligated to pay certain annual regulatory fees and
assessments to support FCC wireless industry regulation, as well as fees supporting federal universal service programs, number portability, regional database costs, centralized telephone numbering administration, telecommunications relay service for
the hearing-impaired and application filing fees. These fees are subject to change periodically by the FCC and the manner in which carriers may recoup these fees from customers is subject to various restrictions.

Equal access. At present, CMRS carriers are exempt from the obligation to provide equal access to interstate long distance carriers.
However, the FCC has the authority to impose rules requiring unblocked access through carrier identification codes or 800/888 numbers to long distance carriers so CMRS customers are not denied access to their chosen long distance carrier, if the FCC
determines the public interest so requires. Our customers have access to alternative long distance carriers using toll-free numbers.

Customer proprietary network information (CPNI). FCC rules impose restrictions on a telecommunications carrier’s use of customer proprietary network information, or CPNI, without prior customer approval, including restrictions
on the use of information related to a customer’s location. CMRS carriers must take reasonable measures to discover and protect against pretexting and, in enforcement proceedings, the FCC will infer from evidence of unauthorized disclosures of
CPNI that reasonable protections were not taken. The FCC has imposed substantial fines on certain wireless carriers for their failure to comply with the FCC’s CPNI rules. The FCC previously conducted a broad scale investigation into whether
CMRS carriers are properly protecting the CPNI of their customers against unauthorized disclosure to third parties and may conduct further investigations in the future. The FCC also is seeking comment on additional CPNI regulations.

Congress and state legislators also have passed and may pass legislation governing the use and protection of CPNI and other personal
information. For example, Congress enacted the Telephone Records and Privacy Protection Act of 2006, which imposes criminal penalties upon persons who purchase without a customer’s consent, or use fraud to gain unauthorized access to, telephone
records. In addition, certain states have enacted, and other states in the future may enact, legislature relating to customer personal information. The recent and pending legislation (if enacted) may require us to change how we protect our
customer’s CPNI and other personal information.

Services to persons with disabilities. Telecommunications
carriers are required to make their services accessible to persons with disabilities. These FCC rules generally require service providers to offer equipment and services accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, if readily achievable,
and to comply with FCC-mandated complaint/grievance procedures. These rules are largely untested and are subject to interpretation through the FCC’s complaint process. While these rules principally focus on requirements that must be met by the
manufacturers of wireless equipment, we are required to have a certain percentage of our handsets be hearing aid compatible and we have annual reporting requirements. In addition, we are required to offer these hearing aid-compatible wireless phones
for each air interface we provide. As a result, this requirement may limit our ability to offer services using new air interfaces other than CDMA 1xRTT, such as dual mode CDMA/LTE handsets, may limit the number of handsets we can offer, or may
increase the costs of handsets for those new air interfaces.

Backup power requirements. In October 2007, in light of
Hurricane Katrina and other such natural disasters, the FCC adopted rules which, if they had taken effect, would have required us to maintain emergency backup power for a minimum of twenty-four hours for certain of our equipment that is normally
powered from local commercial power located inside mobile switching offices, and eight hours for certain of our equipment that are normally powered from local commercial power and at other locations, including cell sites and DAS nodes. Various
aspects of the rules were challenged in court and before the OMB. As a result, the rules have not taken effect and are not being enforced, and the FCC has indicated that it plans to seek comment on revised backup power rules applicable to wireless
providers. In addition, if we were required to secure additional state or local permits or authorization, it could delay the construction of any new cell sites or distributed antenna systems, or DAS systems, and launch of services in new
metropolitan areas.

Siting issues. The location and construction of wireless antennas, DAS systems and nodes, base
stations and towers are subject to FCC and Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, regulations, federal environmental regulations, and other federal, state, and local regulations. The FCC has adopted rules that are intended to expedite siting
decisions by state and local authorities, but the rules are subject to continuing legal challenges. With respect to AWS-1 sites, we must notify the FAA when we add AWS-1 frequencies to existing sites that already have been determined not to be a
hazard to air navigation by the FAA. Antenna structures used by us and other wireless providers also are subject to FCC rules implementing the National Environmental Policy Act and the National







Index to Financial Statements

Historic Preservation Act. Under these rules, construction cannot begin on any structure that may significantly affect the human environment, or that may affect historic properties, until the
wireless provider has filed an environmental assessment with and obtained approval from the FCC or a local agency. Processing of environmental assessments can delay construction of antenna facilities, particularly if the FCC or local agency
determines that additional information is required or if community opposition arises. In addition, several environmental groups have requested various changes to the FCC’s environmental processing rules, challenged specific environmental
assessments as failing statutory requirements and sought to have the FCC conduct a comprehensive assessment of antenna tower construction environmental effects. The FCC also has been ordered by the Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit to further
consider the impact that communications facilities, including wireless towers and antennas, may have on migratory birds, and the FCC has initiated a proceeding to do so. In the meantime, there are a variety of federal and state court actions in
which citizen and environmental groups have sought to deny individual tower approvals based upon potential adverse impacts to migratory birds.

Tower lighting and painting. The FCC has established rules requiring certain towers and other structures to be painted and lighted to minimize the hazard to air navigation. In addition, we are
obligated to notify the FAA if the lighting at a tower which is required to be lighted is no longer lighted. A failure to abide by these requirements could result in the imposition of fines and forfeitures or other liability if an accident occurs.
We generally collocate on existing towers and structures and do not have the right to paint or control the lighting at the site but still could be held accountable if the lighting and painting requirements are not met.

Radio frequency limits. The FCC sets limits on radio frequency, or RF, emissions from cell sites and has rules that establish
procedures intended to protect persons from RF hazards. We have policies in place to ensure compliance with these applicable limits at cell sites where we have operations, but we cannot guarantee that we are in compliance at each cell site.

Emergency warning. The FCC has adopted technical standards, protocols, procedures, and other requirements under the
Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act, or WARN Act, to govern emergency alerting standards for CMRS providers which voluntarily elect to participate. Rules, regulations and industry protocols are in the process of being developed to implement
this program. We have elected to participate in the voluntary emergency alert program. This election may cause us to incur costs and expenses and our customers may be required to purchase new handsets. Under the adopted rules, if a CMRS carrier
elects to participate, the carrier must notify customers of the availability of emergency alerts but may not charge separately for the alerting capability and the CMRS carrier’s liability related to, or any harm resulting from, the transmission
of, or failure to transmit, an emergency alert is limited. If we decide to withdraw from participation at a later date, our customers may decide to terminate their service with us. The FCC also is considering the feasibility of requiring wireless
providers to distribute emergency information and the FCC may change its requirements for the rules under the WARN Act, which additional requirements or changes would cause us to incur additional costs and expenses.

Roaming







Index to Financial Statements

The FCC also has not extended the automatic roaming obligation to services that are
classified as information services (such as high speed Internet services) or to services that are not CMRS, but the FCC is seeking comment on whether the roaming obligation should be extended to such non-interconnected services or features. If the
FCC does not adopt an automatic roaming requirement for non-interconnected services or features, such as information services, high speed broadband services, and broadband Internet access services, we could have difficulty attracting and retaining
certain groups of customers, especially to our LTE services.

In its recent approval of the Verizon Wireless purchase of
Alltel Wireless, the FCC imposed conditions that allow carriers like us who have roaming agreements with both Verizon Wireless and Alltel Wireless to use either agreement to govern all traffic exchanged with the post-merger Verizon Wireless for at
least four years after the date of the closing of the transaction. We have elected to have the Alltel Wireless roaming agreement govern all of our roaming traffic with the combined Verizon Wireless-Alltel, though Verizon Wireless may take the
position that our right to elect the Alltel Wireless agreement only applies to the rate and not to other terms and conditions. We and others have asked the Commission to clarify these requirements, to extend the four-year commitment to seven years
and to require post-merger Verizon Wireless to offer automatic roaming for data services and features on a non-discriminatory basis.

National Broadband Plan. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or Recovery Act, requires the FCC to coordinate with the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, and in conjunction with the Broadband
Technology Opportunities Program established by the Recovery Act, the FCC has been tasked to establish a National Broadband Plan. The Recovery Act states that the National Broadband Plan shall seek to ensure that all people of the United States have
access to broadband capability and establish benchmarks for meeting that goal. The National Broadband Plan is expected among other things, to determine whether additional spectrum is required for wireless broadband services. Congress directed the
FCC to produce the National Broadband Plan by February 17, 2010, but the FCC has requested a 30 day extension of this date. As a result, the date by which the plan will be finalized is not certain. A number of industry participants, including
the primary wireless industry association, have indicated that the FCC should identify and auction an additional 800 MHz or more of wireless broadband spectrum in the next decade. In a recent speech, the Chairman of the FCC, indicated that the
National Broadband Plan will include an initiative to identify and auction an additional 500 MHz of spectrum over the next decade.

Wireless open access. A provider of VoIP services has asked the FCC to issue a declaratory ruling that would give wireless broadband mobile customers the right to utilize any device of their choice to access a wireless broadband
mobile network as long as the device did not cause interference or network degradation and the FCC has placed this request on public notice. The petition also seeks to enable customers to run applications of their choice on wireless broadband mobile
networks. This so-called “Wireless Carterfone Rule” is opposed by many wireless broadband mobile interests, including us and the Wireless Industry Association, CTIA. The proponent also requested that the FCC initiate proceedings to
determine whether the current practices of wireless broadband mobile carriers comport with the Communications Act. The adoption of such a rule for existing networks could permit third parties to run applications on our network that consume large
amounts of airtime and/or bandwidth. Our fixed price, unlimited service is not well-suited to such applications and a mandate of this nature could substantially impede our business.

Net Neutrality







Index to Financial Statements

Network management. In November 2007, a digital content company asked the FCC to
prohibit broadband network operators from blocking, degrading or unreasonably discriminating against lawful Internet applications, context or technologies. In August 2008, the FCC ruled that Comcast Corporation violated the FCC’s policy
regarding reasonable broadband network management by discriminating against certain types of network traffic. This ruling currently is on appeal. This ruling’s impact on us, or whether the FCC will initiate similar investigations against other
broadband providers, including wireless providers, is presently unknown.

White spaces. In November 2008, the FCC
adopted rules to allow unlicensed radio transmitters to operate in the unused broadcast digital television spectrum, or White Spaces. The FCC’s rules provide for both fixed and personal/portable devices to operate in the White Spaces on an
unlicensed basis, subject to various protections to existing users of the spectrum. Policies and industry protocols are in the process of being developed to implement this program. It is possible that entities may offer services in the White Spaces
that could compete with services offered by us.

Regulatory classifications. In January 2008, the FCC solicited
comments on whether text messages and short codes are common carrier services to which CMRS carriers must provide non-discriminatory access. The outcome of an FCC ruling or the effect that such a requirement would have on us is presently unknown.

Outage reporting. The FCC and certain states in which we operate require all telecommunications carriers, including
wireless carriers, to report outages meeting certain specified criteria to the FCC and such states. These reporting requirements affect the way we track and gather data regarding system outages and repair outages, and potentially subject us to fines
and forfeitures if we fail to make timely reports.

Other Federal Regulation

Copyright protection

Economic Stimulus. Congress recently enacted the Recovery Act, which provides, among other things, for an aggregate appropriation of $7.2 billion to fund grants to provide access to broadband
service to consumers residing in rural, unserved or underserved areas of the United States. The grants are available to, among others, wireless broadband mobile carriers. Grants of up to 80% of the total cost of the project may be used to fund
broadband infrastructure projects in certain instances. A portion of these funds were made available in 2009 and the remainder is expected to be made available in 2010. Some of our competitors and new entrants have applied, and we and others may
decide to apply, for the Recovery Act funds. The details regarding the terms and conditions of any such grants are unsettled and the usefulness of these funds to us is uncertain. If our competitors or new entrants receive grants, this could allow
them to provide service at lower rates, to have lower costs to provide service, or to provide service in areas that we could not serve economically without support from these grants. If we seek and receive these grants, we could use these funds to
provide service in areas that we traditionally have not served, to reduce our costs to provide service in certain areas, and to lower our service prices.

Other. Our operations also are subject to various other regulations, including those regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental
Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. The failure to meet or maintain compliance with such regulations could subject us to fines, penalties, potential
administrative and enforcement proceedings or legal action. See “—Risk Factors.”







Index to Financial Statements

State, Local and Other Regulation

The Communications Act preempts state or local regulation of market entry or rates charged by any CMRS provider. As a result, we are free to
establish rates and offer new products and services with minimum state regulation. However, states and local agencies may regulate “other terms and conditions” of wireless service, and certain states where we operate have adopted rules and
regulations to which we are subject, primarily focusing upon consumer protection issues and resolution of customer complaints. In addition, several state authorities have initiated actions or investigations of various wireless carrier practices.
These proceedings could require us to change our marketing practices, ultimately increasing state regulatory authority over the wireless industry. To the extent that applicable rules differ from state to state, our costs of compliance may go up and
our ability to have uniform policies and practices throughout our business may be impaired. State and local governments also may manage public rights of way and can require fair and reasonable compensation from telecommunications carriers, including
CMRS providers, for the use of such rights of any, so long as the government publicly discloses such compensation.

Various
decisions have been rendered by, and other proceedings are pending before, state public utility commissions and courts pertaining to the extent to which the FCC’s preemptive rights over CMRS rates and entry prevent states from regulating
aspects of wireless service, such as billing policies and other consumer issues. These proceedings could subject us to additional state regulation which could cause us to incur additional costs.

The FCC recently ruled that the rates to be charged by competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, to CMRS carriers should be resolved by
the pertinent state regulatory commissions. We have appealed this ruling. In the meantime, CLECs have begun filing applications with state regulatory commissions seeking to set rates for their termination services, which could subject us to a
multiplicity of state rate cases in which the state regulatory commission would set the rates to be charged by CLECs to CMRS carriers for the termination of traffic by CMRS carriers to CLECs.

Certain states and municipalities
in which we provide service or plan to provide service have passed laws prohibiting texting or the use of wireless phones while driving or requiring the use of wireless headsets, other states and municipalities may adopt similar restrictions in the
future, and one national organization is advocating a total ban on the use of wireless phones while driving.

Certain states
in which we provide service are in the process of reviewing proposed legislation that would require persons selling prepaid wireless services, such as ours, to verify a customer’s identity using government identification. We currently do not
require our subscribers to provide a government issued identification to initiate service with us.







Index to Financial Statements

Future Regulation

From time to time, federal, state or local government regulators enact new or revise existing legislation or regulations that could affect us, either beneficially or adversely. Ongoing changes in the
political and financial climate may foster increased legislation or regulation, which might adversely affect us.

