Item 1. Business



Business Overview



In this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K” or “Report”), unless the context indicates otherwise, references to “T-Mobile”, “T-Mobile US”, “our Company”, “the Company”, “we”, “our”,  and “us” refer to T-Mobile US, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.  T-Mobile US, Inc. was originally incorporated as MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (“MetroPCS”) in the State of Delaware in 2004.  In connection with the business combination, described below, our name was changed to “T-Mobile US, Inc.” on April 30, 2013.  Our principal operating subsidiary, T-Mobile USA, Inc. (“T-Mobile USA”) was formed in 1994 as VoiceStream Wireless PCS (“VoiceStream”), a subsidiary of Western Wireless Corporation (“Western Wireless”).  VoiceStream was spun off from Western Wireless in May 1999, acquired by Deutsche Telekom AG (“Deutsche Telekom”) on May 31, 2001 and renamed T-Mobile USA, Inc. in July 2002.



T-Mobile is a national provider of mobile communications services with a network covering more than280 millionpeople throughout the United States.  Our objective is to be the simple choice for a better mobile life across all of our brands, including









T-Mobile, MetroPCS, and GoSmart.  Our intent is to bring this proposition to life across our customer base of retail, wholesale and business (“B2B”) customers through our owned and operated retail stores, third party distributors, as well as through our websites (www.T-Mobile.com and www.MetroPCS.com).  The information on our websites is not part of thisForm 10-K.



We generate revenue by offering affordable postpaid and prepaid wireless voice, messaging and data services, and wholesale wireless services.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we provided service to approximately47 millioncustomers through our nationwide network.  We also generate revenues by offering a wide selection of wireless handsets and accessories, including smartphones, wireless-enabled computers such as notebooks and tablets, and data cards, which are manufactured by various suppliers.  Our most significant expenses are related to expanding and providing network services, acquiring and retaining customers, and compensating employees.



Business Combination with MetroPCS



T-Mobile US, Inc. was formed through the business combination between T-Mobile USA and MetroPCS (“business combination”), which closed on April 30, 2013.  Under the terms of the business combination with MetroPCS, Deutsche Telekom, the parent of T-Mobile USA, received shares of common stock of the combined company in exchange for its transfer of all of T-Mobile USA’s common stock.  The business combination aimed to provide us with expanded scale, spectrum, and financial resources to compete aggressively with other, larger U.S. wireless carriers.  The business combination was accounted for as a reverse acquisition with T-Mobile USA as the accounting acquirer.  Accordingly, T-Mobile USA’s historical financial statements became the historical financial statements of the combined company.  SeeNote 2 – Business Combinationsof the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included inPart II, Item 8of thisForm 10-Kfor further information regarding the business combination.



Business Strategy



We continue to aggressively pursue our Un-carrier strategy, which includes the following elements:



Un-carrier Value Proposition



We are a leading value-oriented postpaid and prepaid wireless carrier in the United States.  We are the fourth largest provider of postpaid service plans and the third largest provider of prepaid service plans as measured by subscribers.  In 2013, we introduced the Un-carrier strategy to address consumer pain points and frustration with the unnecessary cost and complexity of wireless service.  We believe Un-carrier phases 1.0 through 3.0 have been successful, as evidenced by our strong customer growth momentum since the launch of our Un-carrier strategy in March 2013.



In March 2013, with the launch of phase 1.0 of our Un-carrier value proposition, we introduced Simple Choice plans, which eliminated annual service contracts and provided customers with affordable rate plans without the complexity of caps and overage charges.  Customers on Simple Choice plans can purchase the most popular smartphones and if qualified, pay for them with a low out-of-pocket payment and 24 affordable interest-free monthly installments.  The continued modernization of the network and introduction of the Apple®iPhone®in the second quarter of 2013 further repositioned T-Mobile as a provider of dependable high-speed service with a full range of desirable handsets and devices.



In July 2013, we announced Just Upgrade My Phone (“JUMP!™”) as phase 2.0 of our Un-carrier value proposition, which allows participating customers to upgrade their eligible handset.



In October 2013, we unveiled phase 3.0 of our Un-carrier value proposition, which provides our Simple Choice customers reduced United States to international calling rates and roaming fees, and data roaming while traveling abroad in over 100 countries at no extra cost.  In November 2013, we began to offer the Apple iPad®Air and iPadmini with Retina display.  In addition, every T-Mobile tablet user can receive up to 200 MB of free 4G LTE data every month for as long as they own their tablet and use it on our network, even if they are not yet a T-Mobile mobile internet customer.



In January 2014, we launched phase 4.0 of our Un-carrier value proposition, which eliminated one of the last remaining obstacles for customers wanting to switch from other carriers to T-Mobile by offering to reimburse early termination fees when they switch from other carriers and trade in their eligible devices.



Network Modernization and Customer Experience



We are currently in the process of rapidly upgrading our network to nationwide 4G LTE services.  In October 2013, we announced we exceeded our 2013 targets for 4G LTE network coverage by delivering 4G LTE to more than 200 million people









in 254 metropolitan areas.  In addition, we deployed 10x10 MHz 4G LTE in 24 of the top 25 metropolitan areas in 2013.  We expect to deploy at least 20x20 MHz 4G LTE in approximately 90% of the top 25 metropolitan areas in 2014 and beyond.  Additionally, the migration of MetroPCS brand legacy Code Division Multiple Access (“CDMA”) customers onto T-Mobile’s 4G High Speed Packet Access Plus (“HSPA+”) and LTE network is ahead of schedule, providing faster network performance for MetroPCS customers with compatible handsets.  We have continued our expansion of the MetroPCS brand into new geographic markets with the launch of more than 1,700 distribution points in 30 new markets by the end of 2013.



As ofDecember 31, 2013, we held licenses for wireless spectrum suitable for wireless broadband mobile services, including both HSPA+ and 4G LTE.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had an average of approximately 74 MHz of spectrum in the top 100 major metropolitan areas and an average of approximately 77 MHz of spectrum in the top 25 major metropolitan areas.  In January 2014, we entered into agreements with Verizon Communications, Inc. (“Verizon”) to acquire 700 MHz A-Block spectrum licenses covering approximately 150 million people, which will provide upon closing (together with the A-Block spectrum licenses we already own for Boston) T-Mobile with important low-band spectrum in 9 of the top 10 and 21 of the top 30 markets across the United States.



Multi-brand Focus



We plan to continue to operate in multiple brands to accelerate growth.  Further, the addition of the MetroPCS and GoSmart brands to T-Mobile’s portfolio increased our ability to serve the full breadth of the wireless market.  During 2013, we accelerated the growth of the MetroPCS brand by expanding into new geographic regions and expect to continue this growth into new regions in 2014.  In the fourth quarter of 2013, we expanded the Simple Choice plans to include our prepaid and B2B customers, which allow these customers to enjoy the benefits of the Simple Choice plans.  Additionally, we expect continued expansion of our wholesale business through Mobile Virtual Network Operators (“MVNO”) and other wholesale relationships.



Aligned Cost Structure



We continue to pursue a low-cost business operating model to drive cost savings, which can then be reinvested in the business.  These cost-reduction programs are on-going as we continue to simplify our business and drive operational efficiencies and cost savings in areas such as network optimization, customer roaming, customer service and improved customer collection rates.  A portion of these savings have been, and will continue to be, reinvested into growth of our business.





Services and Products



T-Mobile provides wireless communication services nationwide through a variety of service plan options.  These include our Value and Simple Choice plans, which allow customers to subscribe for wireless services separately from, or without purchase of or upfront payment for, a handset.  We offer services, handsets, tablets and accessories directly to consumers through our owned and operated retail stores, as well as through our websites.  In addition, we sell handsets, tablets and accessories to dealers and other third party distributors for resale through independent third-party retail outlets and a variety of third-party websites.



We introduced our Simple Choice plans as part of phase 1.0 of our Un-carrier value proposition in March 2013.  Simple Choice plans eliminated annual service contracts and simplified the lineup of consumer rate plans to one affordable plan for unlimited talk, text and web service with the option to add data services.  Depending on their credit profile, customers are qualified either for postpaid service, where they generally pay after incurring monthly service, or prepaid service, where they generally pay in advance.



Customers on our Simple Choice, or similar plans, benefit from reduced monthly service charges and can choose whether to use their own compatible handset on our network or purchase a handset from us or one of our dealers.  Our Value and Simple Choice plans result in increased equipment revenue for each handset sold compared to traditional bundled price plans that typically offer a significant handset discount but involve higher monthly service charges.



Depending on their credit profile, qualifying customers who purchase a handset from us have the option of financing a portion of the purchase price at the time of sale over an installment period using our Equipment Installment Plan (“EIP”).  In July 2013, we launched phase 2.0 of our Un-carrier value proposition, JUMP!, under which qualifying customers who finance their initial handset purchase with an EIP and enroll in JUMP! can upgrade their handset.  Customers who participate in JUMP! receive a credit for their outstanding EIP balance provided they trade in an eligible used handset at the time of upgrade and purchase a new handset from T-Mobile.











Service Areas



We provide wireless voice, text and data services nationwide, with a network covering all major metropolitan areas and approximately280 millionpeople in the United States, excluding roaming coverage.



Upon completion of the migration of the MetroPCS customer base, we expect to have approximately 55,000 equivalent cell sites, including macro sites and certain distributed antenna system (“DAS”) network nodes retained from the MetroPCS network.  As part of the business combination, we are in the process of decommissioning redundant cell sites and the MetroPCS CDMA network, while also integrating select MetroPCS assets, primarily DAS nodes, in certain metropolitan areas into the overall network.



In October 2013, we purchased 10 MHz of Advanced Wireless Services (“AWS”) spectrum from United States Cellular Corporation (“U.S. Cellular”) for $308 million in cash.  The spectrum covers a total of 32 million people in 29 markets.  Through spectrum transfers and purchases, including a pending acquisition of 700 MHz A-Block spectrum from Verizon, we expect to further enhance our portfolio of nationwide broadband spectrum and enable the expansion of LTE coverage to new markets.



Distribution



As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 70,000 total points of distribution, including approximately 8,000 T-Mobile and MetroPCS branded locations and 62,000 third-party and national retailer locations, as well as distribution through our websites.  Our distribution density in major metropolitan areas provides customers with the convenience of having retail and service locations close to where they live and work.



Customers



T-Mobile generates revenue from three primary categories of customers: branded postpaid, branded prepaid and wholesale. Branded postpaid customers generally include customers that are qualified to pay after incurring service and branded prepaid customers generally include customers who pay in advance.  We generate the majority of our service revenues by providing wireless communication services to branded postpaid customers.  Therefore, our ability to acquire and retain branded postpaid customers is significant to our business, including the generation of service revenues, equipment sales and other revenues.  Our branded prepaid customers include customers of the T-Mobile, MetroPCS and GoSmart brands.  Wholesale customers include Machine-to-Machine (“M2M”) customers and MVNO customers that operate on the T-Mobile network, but are managed by wholesale partners.



During the twelve months endedDecember 31, 2013,69%of our service revenues were generated by providing wireless communication services to branded postpaid customers, compared to26%from branded prepaid customers, and5%from wholesale customers, roaming and other services.



Competition



The wireless telecommunications industry is expected to remain highly competitive and we face substantial competition.  Our competitors include larger national carriers, such as AT&T Inc. (“AT&T”), Verizon and Sprint Corporation (“Sprint”), which offer predominantly contract-based service plans; and numerous smaller regional carriers and MVNOs, such as TracFone Wireless, Inc., many of which offer no-contract, prepaid service plans.  AT&T and Verizon are significantly larger than us and may enjoy greater resources and scale advantages as compared to us.  SoftBank Corp recently acquired a majority of the equity of Sprint and has announced plans to increase capital spending on network modernization and expansion.  Other competitors, including new entrants and companies using alternative business models may also compete effectively.



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2013, we employed approximately 40,000 full-time and part-time employees.  As of that date, less than 20 employees were covered by a collective bargaining agreement.



Regulation



Pursuant to its authority under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (“Communications Act”), the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) regulates many key aspects of our business, including licensing, construction, the operation and use of our network, modifications of our network, control and ownership of our business, the sale of certain business assets, domestic roaming arrangements and interconnection agreements.  The FCC has a number of complex requirements and proceedings that affect our operations and that could increase our costs or diminish our revenues.  For









example, the FCC has rules regarding provision of 911 and E-911 services, porting telephone numbers, interconnection, roaming, internet openness, and the universal service and Lifeline programs.  Many of these and other issues are being considered in ongoing proceedings, and we cannot predict whether or how such actions will affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  Our ability to provide services and generate revenues could be harmed by adverse regulatory action or changes to existing laws and regulations.  In addition, regulation of companies that offer competing services can impact our business indirectly.



Wireless communications providers must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as adopted by the FCC.  The FCC issues each license for a fixed period of time, typically 10 years in the case of cellular, personal communications services (“PCS”) and point-to-point microwave licenses.  AWS licenses have an initial term of 15 years, with successive 10-year terms thereafter.  While the FCC has generally renewed licenses given to operating companies like us, the FCC has authority to both revoke a license for cause and to deny a license renewal if a renewal is not in the public interest. Furthermore, we could be subject to fines, forfeitures and other penalties (including, in extreme cases, revocation of our licenses) for failure to comply with FCC regulations, even if any such non-compliance was unintentional.  The loss of any licenses, or any related fines or forfeitures, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.



Additionally, Congress’ and the FCC’s allocation of additional spectrum for broadband commercial mobile radio service (“CMRS”), which includes cellular and personal communication services and specialized mobile radio, could significantly increase competition.  We cannot assess the impact that any developments that may occur in the U.S. economy or any future spectrum allocations by the FCC may have on license values.  FCC spectrum auctions and other market developments may adversely affect the market value of our licenses in the future.  A significant decline in the value of our licenses could adversely affect the carrying value of our licenses on our balance sheet and our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, the FCC periodically reviews its policies on how to evaluate a carrier’s spectrum holdings in the context of transactions and auctions.  A change in these policies could affect spectrum resources and competition among us and other carriers.



Congress and the FCC have imposed limitations on foreign ownership of CMRS licensees that exceeds 20% direct ownership or 25% indirect ownership.  The FCC has ruled that higher levels of indirect foreign ownership, even up to 100%, are presumptively consistent with the public interest albeit subject to review.  Consistent with that established policy, the FCC has issued a declaratory ruling authorizing up to 100% ownership of our company by Deutsche Telekom.  This declaratory ruling, and our licenses, are conditioned on Deutsche Telekom’s and the Company’s compliance with a network security agreement with the Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Homeland Security.  Failure to comply with the terms of this agreement could result in fines, injunctions and other penalties, including potentially revocation of our spectrum licenses.  The loss of any licenses, or any related fines or forfeitures, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.



While the Communications Act generally preempts state and local governments from regulating the entry of, or the rates charged by, wireless carriers, certain state and local governments regulate other terms and conditions of wireless service, including billing, termination of service arrangements and the imposition of early termination fees, advertising, network outages, the use of handsets while driving, zoning and land use.  Further, the FCC and the Federal Aviation Administration regulate the siting, lighting and construction of transmitter towers and antennae.  Tower siting and construction are also subject to state and local zoning, as well as federal statutes regarding environmental and historic preservation.  The future costs to comply with all relevant regulations are to some extent unknown and regulations could result in higher operating expenses in the future.











Executive Officers of the Registrant

NameAgePositionJohn J. Legere55President, Chief Executive OfficerJames (Jim) C. Alling53Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer T-Mobile BusinessDavid R. Carey60Executive Vice President, Corporate ServicesJ. Braxton Carter55Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerPeter A. Ewens51Executive Vice President, Corporate StrategyAlexander Andrew (Drew) Kelton55Executive Vice President, Business-to-Business (“B2B”)Thomas C. Keys55Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, MetroPCS BusinessGary A. King56Executive Vice President, Chief Information OfficerDavid A. Miller53Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryLarry L. Myers59Executive Vice President, Human ResourcesNeville R. Ray51Executive Vice President and Chief Technology OfficerG. Michael (Mike) Sievert44Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer



John J. Legere, age 55, has served as a member of our Board of Directors since April 30, 2013 and is a member of the Executive Committee of the board.  Mr. Legere joined T-Mobile in September 2012 as President and Chief Executive Officer and became our President and Chief Executive Officer on April 30, 2013 upon the consummation of the business combination.  Mr. Legere has over 32 years’ experience in the U.S. and global telecommunications and technology industries.  Prior to joining T-Mobile, Mr. Legere served as Chief Executive Officer of Global Crossing Limited, a telecommunications company, from October 2001 to October 2011.  Before joining Global Crossing, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Asia Global Crossing; as president of Dell Computer Corporation’s operations in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa; as president Asia-Pacific for Dell; as president of AT&T Asia Pacific; as head of AT&T’s outsourcing program and as head of AT&T global strategy and business development.  Mr. Legere serves on the CTIA Board of Directors.  Mr. Legere received a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from the University of Massachusetts, a Master of Science degree as an Alfred P. Sloan Fellow at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a Master of Business Administration degree from Fairleigh Dickinson University, and he completed Harvard Business School’s Program for Management Development (“PMD”).



James (Jim) C. Alling, age 53, serves as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, T-Mobile Business.  In this role, Mr. Alling is in charge of customer-facing activities for a subscription base of over 30 million users.  Mr. Alling has also served as the Chief Operating Officer of T-Mobile USA since August 2009.  Before joining T-Mobile USA, Mr. Alling worked as a President of Starbucks Coffee Company, a global coffee company and coffeehouse chain, for eleven years, until July 2008.  Mr. Alling began his career in 1985 at Nestle S.A., where he held various senior management positions in the packaged goods marketing sector before eventually becoming a VP/General Manager for Nestle USA.  Mr. Alling received a Bachelor of Arts degree from DePauw University in Greencastle, Indiana with a double major in Economics and Spanish; he then obtained a Master of International Management degree from the Thunderbird School of International Management.



David R. Carey, age 60, serves as our Executive Vice President, Corporate Services, responsible for leading the Enterprise Program Office, Corporate Communications, Corporate Real Estate, Corporate Responsibility and the CEO Staff.  Mr. Carey has also served in the same role with T-Mobile USA since March 2013. Before joining T-Mobile USA, from October 2011 to March 2013, Mr. Carey served as the CEO and Founder of TeleScope Advisors, LLC, an advisory firm specializing in telecommunications.  Mr. Carey served as Executive Vice President at Global Crossing Limited, a telecommunications company, from September 1999 to October 2011.  Mr. Carey’s career spans 35 years in the telecom and energy services industries.  His experience in telecom includes leadership positions at AT&T, LG&E Energy, Frontier Communications and Global Crossing.  He currently serves on the advisory board of Hewlett-Packard Corporation.  Mr. Carey holds a Master of Science in Management Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was appointed to a Sloan Fellowship, and received his Bachelor of Science degree at Clarkson University.



J. Braxton Carter, age 55, serves as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and is responsible for leading the financial functions of the Company.  Mr. Carter served as MetroPCS’s Chief Financial Officer from February 2008 until the consummation of the business combination.  Mr. Carter also served as MetroPCS’s Vice Chairman from May 2011 until the consummation of the business combination.  From March 2005 to February 2008, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and from February 2001 to March 2005 he was Vice President, Corporate Operations of MetroPCS.  Mr. Carter also has extensive senior management experience in the retail industry and spent ten years in public accounting.  Mr. Carter is a certified public accountant.  Mr. Carter presently serves on the Board of Directors of, and as Chairman of the Audit Committee of, e-Rewards, Inc., and serves on the Board of Advisors of Amdocs Limited.  Mr. Carter received a Bachelor of Science degree from The University of Colorado with a major in accounting.









Peter A. Ewens, age 51, serves as our Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy.  He leads the Company’s corporate strategy, business development and M&A activities, which include spectrum strategy and acquisitions, co-brand partnerships, and T-Mobile’s participation as a founding partner in the Isis mobile commerce joint venture with AT&T and Verizon Wireless.  Mr. Ewens has also served as Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of T-Mobile USA since July 2010.  From April 2008 until July 2010, Mr. Ewens was Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy at T-Mobile USA.  Before joining T-Mobile USA, Mr. Ewens was Vice President of OEM Business at Sun Microsystems, a computer software and information technology services company, from June 2006 through March 2008.  Before that, Mr. Ewens was a partner at McKinsey & Company, a global management consulting firm.  Mr. Ewens received a Master of Science in Management from the Sloan School at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Master’s and Bachelor’s degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Toronto.



Alexander Andrew (Drew) Kelton



Thomas C. Keys, age 55, serves as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer MetroPCS Business, responsible for leading the operations of the MetroPCS business unit including all customer-facing activities related to the MetroPCS brands.  Mr. Keys served as MetroPCS’s President from May 2011 until the consummation of the business combination, and as Chief Operating Officer since June 2007.  Mr. Keys also served as MetroPCS’s President from June 2007 to December 2007, Senior Vice President, Market Operations, West, from January 2007 until June 2007, and as Vice President and General Manager, Dallas, from April 2005 until January 2007.  Mr. Keys received a Bachelor of Arts degree from State University of New York at Oswego, and a Master of Arts from Syracuse University.



Gary A. King, age 56, serves as our Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer, and is responsible for managing the development of information technology systems.  Prior to joining T-Mobile, Mr. King served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Chico’s FAS, Inc. from October 2004 to April 2013.  Previously, he was the Chief Information officer of Barnes & Noble Inc. from May 2002 to October 2004 and also served as its Vice President.  Prior to that, Mr. King served as Executive Vice President-Operations of Barnesandnoble.com since December 31, 2001 and its Chief Technology Officer from January 1999 to May 2002.  Prior to that, he spent ten years from 1988 to 1999 with Avon Products, Inc., and served as its Vice President, Global Information Technology from 1996 to 1999.  He also held various systems management positions with Unisys Corporation and Borroughs Corporation from 1982 to 1987.  Mr. King serves on the Advisory Boards of Center for Supply Chain Management at the University of Florida, Trident Capital and Pivotlink.  Mr. King received a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Florida with a major in computer science.



David A. Miller, age 53, serves as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.  Mr. Miller oversees all legal affairs and government affairs functions of the Company.  Mr. Miller has also served as T-Mobile USA’s Chief Legal Officer, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.  Mr. Miller was appointed Senior Vice President and General Counsel of T-Mobile USA in April 2002 and Executive Vice President in January 2011.  Previously, Mr. Miller served as Director of Legal Affairs for Western Wireless (a predecessor to T-Mobile USA) from March 1995 to May 1999, and he became Vice President of Legal Affairs of VoiceStream Wireless Corporation in May 1999 following its spin-off from Western Wireless.  VoiceStream Wireless was acquired by Deutsche Telekom in May 2001, when it became T-Mobile USA.  Prior to joining Western Wireless, Mr. Miller was an attorney with the law firm of Lane Powell and began his law career as an attorney with the firm McCutchen, Doyle, Brown and Enersen (now Bingham McCutchen).  Mr. Miller serves on the Board of Directors of the Competitive Carriers Association and is a member of its Executive Committee.  Mr. Miller received a Bachelor’s degree in Economics from the University of Washington and a Juris Doctor from Harvard Law School.











Larry L. Myers, age 59, serves as our Executive Vice President, Human Resources.  Mr. Myers is responsible for leading the human resources function that supports our employees across the country.  Mr. Myers has also served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources and Chief People Officer of T-Mobile USA since June 2008.  From January 2001 to May 2008, Mr. Myers served as senior vice president of human resources for Washington Group International, a corporation which provided integrated engineering, construction, and management services to businesses and governments around the world. Mr. Myers has more than 35 years of experience in human resources management.  Mr. Myers received degrees in sociology and business administration from Idaho State University.



Neville R. Ray, age 51, serves as our Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer.  Mr. Ray joined T-Mobile USA (then VoiceStream) in April 2000 and since December 2010 has served as its Chief Technology Officer, responsible for the national management and development of the T-Mobile USA wireless network and the company’s IT services and operations.  Prior to joining T-Mobile USA, from September 1996 to September 1999, Mr. Ray served as Network Vice President for Pacific Bell Mobile Services.  He served as Chairperson of 4G Americas from 2008 through 2013, which promotes and facilitates the seamless deployment throughout the Americas of the 3GPP family of technologies, including HSPA, HSPA+, and LTE.  He has also served as a member of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration’s Commerce Spectrum Management Advisory Committee (“CSMAC”) and the Federal Communications Commission’s Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council (“CSRIC”). Mr. Ray is an honors graduate of The City University of London and a member of the Institution of Electrical and Electronic Engineers and the Institution of Civil Engineers.



G. Michael (Mike) Sievert



Available Information



T-Mobile’sForm 10-Kand all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.t-mobile.com or at www.sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after these materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC.  Our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct, code of ethics for senior financial officers and charters for the audit, compensation, nominating and corporate governance and executive committees of our board of directors are also posted on the Investor Relations section of T-Mobile’s website at investor.t-mobile.com.  The information on our website is not part of this or any other report T-Mobile files with, or furnishes to, the SEC.





